                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 32900




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (IDA-31930 PPFI-Q0970 TF-22271)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.3 MILLION (US$14.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                             INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA

                                         FOR AN

                      INFRASTRUCTURE ASSET MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                             IN SUPPORT OF PHASE ONE OF AN

                    INFRASTRUCTURE ASSET MANAGEMENT PROGRAM




                                      February 2, 2006




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

     (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2004)

            Currency Unit = Samoa Tala (WST)
                WST 1.00 = US$ 2.67 (2.99 at inception February 1999)
                 US$ 1.00 = 0.37 (0.33 at inception February 1999)

                  FISCAL YEAR
                July 1 to    June 30

       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGO           Office of the Attorney General
APL           Adaptable Program Loan
AusAID        Australian Agency for International Development
CIM           Coastal Infrastructure and Management
COEPs         Codes of Environmental Practice
DLSE          Department of Lands, Surveys and Environment
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GIS           Geographic Information System
HDM-4         Highway Development and Management model, Version 4
IAM-1         Infrastructure Asset Management Project (Phase 1, Cr.
              3193-WSO)
IAM-2         Infrastructure Asset Management Project (Phase 2, Cr.
              3848-WSO)
IAMP          Infrastructure Asset Management Program
IATA          International Air Transport Association
ICAO          International Civil Aviation Organization
ICT           Information and Communications Technology
IDA           International Development Association
MNRE          Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
MWTI          Ministry of Works, Tranport and Infrastructure
PIRAMS        PWD Institutional Reform and Asset Management Services
PMU           Project Management Unit
PWD           Public Works Department
RSAP          Road Safety Action Plan
RTAS          Road Transport Administration System
SAA           Samoa Airport Authority
SAMS          Samoa Asset Management System
SOE           State-owned Enterprise
TCB           Transport Control Board



           Vice President:     Mr. Jeffrey S. Gutman, Acting
         Country Director:     Mr. Xian Zhu
          Sector Director:     Mr. Jitendra N. Bajpai
       Task Team Leader:       Mr. William D.O. Paterson

                                               SAMOA
                              Infrastructure Asset Management Project
                       (Infrastructure Asset Management Program (Phase 1))


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
   6. Sustainability                                                                15
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
   9. Partner Comments                                                              19
   10. Additional Information                                                       22
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34
   Annex 8. Illustrations                                                           36
IBRD Map 32860R

Project ID: P052293                                                  Project Name: WS-Infrast. Mgnt (APL)
Team Leader: William D. O. Paterson                                  TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 7, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: WS-Infrast. Mgnt (APL)                                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-31930; PPFI-Q0970;
                                                                                                     TF-22271
   Country/Department: SAMOA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Aviation (40%); Central government administration (34%); Roads and highways (26%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/02/1998                                     Effective: 05/31/1999                02/28/2000
     Appraisal: 11/12/1998                                         MTR: 12/06/2000                  12/06/2000
      Approval: 04/15/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 03/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Independent State of Samoa/Dept of Public Works; Independent State of
                                           Samoa/Dept of Lands Surveys and Environment; Independent State of Samoa/&
                                           Samoa Airport Authority.
                      Other Partners:      Australian Agency for International Development

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey S. Gutman                              Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Xian Zhu                                       Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:                 Jitendra N. Bajpai                             Jitendra N. Bajpai
Team Leader at ICR:             William D. O. Paterson                         William D. O. Paterson
ICR Primary Author:             William D.O. Paterson; Richard
                                Leonard


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context. Prior to the preparation of the Infrastructure Asset Management Program in 1998, the
International Development Association (IDA) had been supporting emergency recovery from the double
major tropical cyclones Ofa in 1990 and Val in 1991 which inflicted a substantial economic shock on
Samoa with damages worth about four times the annual GDP. In 1996, the Government launched an active
public sector reform program in a Statement of Economic Strategy, which sought to expand the private
sector role, liberalize the financial sector and strengthen human resource development. Four issues shaped
the concept for this Program. First, in the coastal zone where the economy is concentrated there was a
need to find a balance between protection from natural hazard risks and preservation of the vulnerable
coastal ecology and environment. Second, the island nation, remote from its markets, is highly dependent
on efficient and secure air transport communications for resilience to economic shocks. Third, the Public
Works Department (PWD), which had been the implementing agency of the emergency project, was
actively beginning a reform program to adopt a more commercial model of service delivery, in concert with
emerging national economic reforms. Finally, the Bank's lending operations in the Pacific had a record of
problematic performance and cofinancing, and their small scale, high risk nature required a new business
model to respond to regional requests for continued support. Against this backdrop, it was decided to
employ an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), the first in the East Asia and Pacific region, for a phased
infrastructure program.

Objectives. The objective chosen for the Program was "Transport and coastal infrastructure assets are
economically, environmentally and socially sustainable and managed by an effective partnership of
stakeholders." The first phase had four sub-objectives: (i) International air transport infrastructure is
sustainably adequate for economic growth; (ii) Reliability and safety of road system assets is improved;
(iii) Environmentally and socially sustainable management of coastal infrastructure is initiated; and (iv)
Management of infrastructure assets is becoming service-oriented involving public, private and community
stakeholders.

Assessment of Objectives. The Program objective matched the Government's Statement of Economic
Strategy objectives, that investments should be economically feasible, development should be
environmentally sustainable, the private sector involved in service delivery, and the government role
reduced. The two phases covering an 8-year period reflected an essentially "vertical" design in the two
objectives, first laying the foundations for asset management capacity and then supporting additional
investment in infrastructure, i.e.: (i)      Phase 1 ­ Meeting vital priorities and strengthening management;
and (ii) Phase 2 ­ Investing for sustainable growth and protection.

The reform objective was appropriate because the APL structure provided a basis for a progressive
longer-term partnership with some flexibility to match actual achievements. While the four sub-objectives
were a seemingly complex combination, integration was achieved by the inter-agency Steering Committee
and there was clear ownership by each implementing agency for their various sub-objectives and tasks, as
follows:

(a)      Air Transport Infrastructure: As airport operations were already commercialized and separate
         from the national airline, the key demands were the large capital investment needed to raise the
         operational and safety standards to pending international civil aviation standards and facilitate
         more long-haul flight operations. Through reinforcing the financial responsibility of the Samoa
         Airport Authority (SAA) for the investment and for achieving financial viability in its operations,
         the Project was consistent with Government's economic reform agenda. IDA support was



                                                       - 2 -

         appropriate to make the model of commercialized operation for infrastructure service delivery work
         in the `thin market' conditions of low demand and high intrinsic costs due to the country's remote
         location.

(b)      Road Infrastructure: As the standards of much of the primary road system had been raised by the
         post-cyclone investments, the challenges for the road sub-sector included first, better management
         of the assets to reduce the demand on public funds and dependence on foreign aid and second,
         improved traffic management in the face of growing motorization and safety concerns of a
         village-based traditional culture. The focus of Phase 1 on road asset management processes, and
         on bridge and pedestrian safety, therefore was highly appropriate for balancing priorities and
         building management capacity before an investment phase in Phase 2.

(c)      Coastal Infrastructure: Though not a formal sub-sector, infrastructure to protect the coastal zone
         from natural hazards became a highly visible priority after the major cyclones. This sub-objective
         essentially introduced risk management as a key tool of public sector management - in this case, an
         approach to mitigating the risks of economic disruption from storms and other natural hazards
         which are highly prevalent in Samoa. This objective was highly innovative and crucial for an
         island economy where so many of its assets are at high risk. It aimed to involve community
         interests and traditional control of lands, a systematic assessment of risk and evaluation of options
         for reducing those risks, and minimizing the irreversible impacts of hard protection on sensitive
         coastal ecosystems.

(d)      Public Sector Reform: The sector reform identified for each subsector was strongly in support of
         the Government's macroeconomic policy, and designed to progress at different paces depending on
         capacity in the individual sectors. Public Works was the primary focus for Phase 1 and the biggest
         challenge for the Government's program and commitment ­ the flexibility of the APL structure
         allowed room for both the targets and the timing to adjust as consultations and political will
         developed, and to ensure continuity through Phase 2. Natural resources and environment, were a
         lower priority at preparation and had many public interest issues, but their inclusion provided the
         opportunity for reform to develop during the Project.

These objectives were also consistent with the Bank's regional and country strategy, supporting a more
efficient and effective public sector, increased participation of the private sector, and limiting focus to a
few key sectors. The new lending model, by combining sub-sectors and including a full sector reform
program, proved to be a suitable instrument. Partnership with the Australian Agency for International
Development (AusAID), whose program focused on institutional strengthening, proved mutually very
effective. The limited cofinancing reflected the Government's approach of aligning development partners
with specific sectors.

3.2 Revised Objective:
No change.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project had four components matching the four sub-objectives plus one for project management, as
follows:

A.       Air Transport Infrastructure (US$8.78 million). Upgrading of the Faleolo International Airport
         as a national gateway with modern international standards suitable for low traffic demand. This
         included: (i) rehabilitation and extension of the runway to 3,000 m length, including taxiway apron



                                                       - 3 -

         lights drainage and seawall protection; (ii) Improvement of the passenger terminal, emergency
         services and air traffic control; (iii) Supply of emergency fire and rescue vehicles; and (iv)
         Engineering and architectural services for design and supervision.

B.       Road System Infrastructure (US$3.85 million). Improving the reliability and safety of the
         primary road network through: (i) Bridge rehabilitation and replacement of six narrow unsafe
         bridges; (ii) Road rehabilitation of the West Coast Road, in the key airport corridor; and (iii) Road
         safety measures and construction of 4.7 km of footpaths in key pedestrian areas.

C.       Coastal Infrastructure and Management (CIM) (US$2.43 million). Developing an approach to
         the management and mitigation of natural hazard risks in coastal areas, strengthening
         environmental management, enhancing geographical information and constructing protection for
         warranted priority coastal areas.

D.       Institutional Development (US$3.28 million). Support for public sector reform in (i) Public
         works, through asset management systems, restructuring and private sector participation; (ii) Asset
         and information management national protocols; (iii) Road traffic and safety administration
         system; (iv) Functional review of Department of Lands, Survey and Environment; and (v) Samoa
         Airport Authority through business process improvements.

E.       Project Management (US$1.46 million). (i) A Project Preparation Facility to finance the
         preparation of the Program; and (ii) Technical assistance for a central Project Management Unit
         (PMU).

Assessment of Components. The design and structure of the components supported the objectives very
clearly and also aligned well with the implementing agency responsibilities. The codification of
components and sub-components matched the outputs and contracts thus allowing efficient and reliable
monitoring of implementation and results.

3.4 Revised Components:

There were no formal amendments, but some reductions in the scope of components due to cost increases in
excess of the contingencies. The increase in the airport component, the largest in the Project, was 35
percent after applying value engineering, and there were increases in the order of 20-29 percent in other
components also. Through prioritization, the Project Steering Committee deferred a substantial portion of
the Road component (B) to Phase 2, i.e.: (i) Construction of Fagalii and Falefa Bridges under B.1; (ii)
Rehabilitation of the Apia-Faleolo West Coast Road corridor under B.2; (iii) Improvements to pedestrian
facilities on Fugalei Street and Lelata area streets under B.3; and (iv) Construction and supervision of coast
protection works at Mulunuu, Fasitoo-uta and Manono-uta under C.3.

All these activities have been implemented but were financed under IAM-2.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) reviewed the Project after approval, rating it Satisfactory
overall, and highly satisfactory in poverty and social aspects. The panel highlighted excellent preparation
work, strong ownership by the Government, donor partnership, stakeholder consultations, indigenous
people aspects, institutional framework and the skill-mix of the preparation team. The following factors
contributed significantly to project readiness for implementation: (i) Government's approval of the Letter



                                                        - 4 -

of Development Program on February 16, 1999; (ii) Advance procurement of the engineering and design
services for the major airport component; (iii) Establishment of the passenger departure tax at Faleolo; and
(iv) Advance procurement for the civil works for two bridges.

The project team rated quality at entry as highly satisfactory, giving more weight to project design aspects
than the QAG rating, based on the following:

(a)     The broad scope, focused on infrastructure but covering three subsectors and involving multiple
        implementing agencies, was given cohesion by well-designed implementation arrangements.
        Coordination was effected by a multi-agency steering committee and a contracted-in centrally
        based project management team. Implementing agencies were empowered through procurement
        responsibilities and an individual project manager assigned to each main agency.
(b)     The objectives and components were highly resonant with Government priorities. The Adaptable
        Program (APL) framework allowed the subsectors to progress at different appropriate paces.
(c)     Preparation of the major investment components (airport and bridges) was well advanced by
        Project approval, including detailed engineering for the airport component, resulting in a rapid start
        to implementation and disbursement;
(d)     A strongly participatory approach was adopted in the design and preparation of the project, which
        continued through implementation and resulted in a sustained momentum until the latter stage of
        the project period;
(e)     Procurement arrangements focused on developing domestic industry capacity and country systems,
        resulting in effective knowledge transfer, so that the resultant effort required in the procurement of
        numerous small packages was also productive in capacity development;
(f)     Environmental and social safeguards were fully addressed, the consultation process was extensive
        and active attention was given to cultural and indigenous aspects;
(g)     Some project elements were innovative and progressive, such as the introduction of hazard risk
        management and the full public works reform, which grew from lessons learned under the earlier
        emergency projects and donor-suported programs; and
(h)     The project design and successful performance became a model for improving portfolio
        performance in small-scale countries such as the Pacific Islands.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome for the first Phase is rated as highly satisfactory, as it achieved three of the four
sub-objectives to a highly satisfactory degree and one satisfactorily. Some sustainability issues remain to
be addressed under Phase 2. The key achievements include:
(a)     International airport infrastructure is sustainably adequate for economic growth:              Highly
        satisfactory. The upgrading of Faleolo International Airport for both air and passenger operations
        was fully successful, consistently met performance targets, met international standards, and
        established a leading example in the Pacific.
(b)     Reliability and safety of road system assets is improved: Satisfactory. Key bridge and pedestrian
        facilities were improved in critical or congested locations, with enhanced functional and
        environmental standards. However, nearly half of the planned scope had to be deferred to Phase 2
        for budgetary reasons.
(c)     Sustainable management of coastal infrastructure is initiated:             Highly satisfactory.    The
        approach to coastal risk management and protection was pioneering for the Pacific and the three
        elements - national strategy, community participation, and coastal infrastructure management
        (CIM) plans that are based on rigorous hazard risk assessment and community choice ­ provide a



                                                    - 5 -

         good basis for a sustainable result. The Project covered more than three times the expected
         number of Districts, and Phase 2 will complete the coverage of CIM Plans.
(d)      Management of infrastructure assets becomes service-oriented.           Highly satisfactory.     The
         management of infrastructure assets under Ministry of Works, Transport and Infrastructure
         (MWTI), and land and asset information under Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
         (MNRE), is now more service-oriented and involves public and private stakeholders. Reform of
         the Public Works Department (PWD) successfully completed the transition from traditional service
         provider to asset manager, with the transfer of services to the private sector, commercialization of
         major plant operations, and a significant downsizing of staff, without significant social disruption.
         The automation of motor vehicle registration and driver licensing greatly facilitated road transport
         administration and improved service to road users. The Airport Authority improved business
         processes, and is progressing well towards financial viability with operating costs fully covered and
         an increasing amount of capital costs being absorbed.

4.2 Outputs by components:

A. Airport Improvements

This component upgraded the Faleolo International Airport to international standards for a 10-year horizon,
including extension and resurfacing of the runway, a new taxiway, upgrading the terminal building, and
construction of new air traffic control tower and emergency services. Airport facilities and operations now
comply with International Civil Aviation Organization standards and the terminal facilities satisfy
International Air Transport Association requirements for Category C operations (Small airports). It is
rated highly satisfactory. There were four sub-components (see photographs in Annex 8):

A.1 Airport Paving and Civil Works

The runway was extended from 2,700 m to 3,000 m and resurfaced with a 50 mm thick asphalt overlay.
The whole length of the runway was transversely grooved to provide improved skid resistance in tropical
storm conditions. A new taxiway was constructed to link the parking apron with the runway extension.
Some drainage improvements and other minor works were also carried out. Because the bid price was
considerably higher than the Project Appraisal Document estimate, the works were delayed to coincide with
a new fiscal year. A Partnering Charter which governed the consultant, contractor and client, helped to
reduce costs and contractual conflicts - through this and using Value Engineering, the Contractor identified
substantial cost savings which were shared with the Client. Highly satisfactory.

A.2 Airport Building Works

The original terminal building, constructed in 1987, was completely refitted with a new internal layout,
facilities, ceiling and roof, including new baggage handling equipment, designed to increase the capacity for
handling passengers of large aircraft. A cultural feature of the design was the use of a signature color
scheme relating to the phase of passenger processing. Much of the work was completed in time for the
influx of visitors for the 1999/2000 Millenium celebrations. The new control tower was constructed to
improve visibility to each end of the runway and was set back from the runway to comply with
International Civil Aviation Organization requirements. Improved avionics and traffic control equipment
were installed. The new Emergency Fire and Rescue Station was constructed near the midpoint of the
runway to provide better service in the event of an emergency, and includes accommodation facilities for
the duty crew. Satisfactory.




                                                     - 6 -

A.3 Emergency Fire Equipment

The existing equipment was replaced with two new high performance fire and rescue tenders at a very
competitive price. The performance of the equipment is excellent. Highly satisfactory.

A.4 Design and Supervision Services

The services covering the design and supervision of all the works under the airport component were
generally satisfactory, except regarding control of material changes during construction which resulted in
cost increases and in some cases subsequent remedial maintenance. The services also included retention of
a local artist and art institute who created excellent cultural theming of the terminal building, comprising
fixed and movable artworks, including mosaics, murals, stained glass and carved wooden pieces depicting
Samoan themes - the artwork is popular and fostered a cultural pride in the national gateway. Satisfactory.

B. Road System Infrastructure

The investments served to improve the reliability and safety of the existing road network. Nearly all works
and services were provided by the private sector in small packages in order to stimulate the local industry
and support the reform agenda. The overall rating is satisfactory.

B.1 Upgrading primary road bridges

Four bridges were reconstructed - Tua'efu and Lelata Bridges in the Apia area, Falevao Bridge on Upolu
and Saleia Bridge on Savaii. The design work for Tua'efu and Lelata Bridges was procured by PWD using
local funds before the start of the project. The reconstruction of two other bridges at Fagalii and Falefa was
designed under the Project but implemented under IAM-2 because of design delays and budgetary reasons.

The reconstruction works for the four bridges proceeded well and resulted in reasonable quality of
workmanship. Costs were only slightly higher than budget estimates. As part of the transition to private
sector delivery, all construction supervision and remaining design services were undertaken by local
consultants. Construction supervision by local firms was generally satisfactory but the capacity of local
firms requires considerable improvement in quality. The design services of an international firm for the
Saleia and Falevao Bridges performed poorly with extensive delay and deficiencies in the documents, but
eventually these were fully remedied. The design services for the Fagalii and Falefa Bridges performed
somewhat better, with a small delay due to a design change. Rated satisfactory.

B.2 Road preservation works

Rehabilitation of the West Coast (Airport) Road was originally planned for Phase 1 because of traffic
safety issues. The feasibility study conducted as part of the design showed that a new shorter inland route
would be feasible in the medium term and thus confirmed that only periodic repairs should be made to the
existing road. Thus, instead of major rehabilitation, the works were designed to comprise reinstatement of
weak spots, drainage improvements, resealing and safety provisions in residential areas, in three packages.
Due to delay in the design services and cost overruns in other components the work is being implemented
during Phase 2.




                                                     - 7 -

B.3 Road safety and pedestrian facilities

The works to improve pedestrian facilities in the Apia area comprised: (i) Beach Rd.; (ii) Vailele St.,
Vaivase Rd. and To'omatagi Rd., collectively referred to as Lelata area streets; (iii) Convent St.; and (iv)
Fugalei St. The design standards of the footpaths were raised and substantial landscaping was incorporated
by MWTI so the overall impact has been effective and environmentally attractive (see Annex 8). The
Beach Road works also were expanded to include traffic management in the central business area. The
works were located in areas of high pedestrian traffic such as near schools, were generally of good quality
and provided a safe and attractive environment for pedestrians. The design work by local consultants for
the Lelata area and Fugalei Street footpaths proceeded very slowly, and the financing was shifted to IAM-2
due to the delays and to cost overruns. Moderately satisfactory.

C. Coastal Protection Infrastructure

This component established an approach to protecting coastal communities against natural hazards that
was environmentally and socially sustainable, by developing a national strategy, mapping coastal hazard
zones, and preparing detailed management plans with the active participation of coastal communities for 15
out of 43 districts. Image data of the entire land area was collected and made available in a geographic
information system to improve the quality and availability of land information. The component as a whole
is rated as highly satisfactory. This will be expanded to cover the remaining districts under Phase 2, and
the concepts are being shared around the region as a model approach (see Policy Note 2006, ref. 43, Annex
7). There were three sub-components:

C.1 Coastal and Environmental Management

Technical assistance under one consultancy contract was provided to develop and implement a CIM
strategy for managing hazard risks in coastal zones, based on a methodology developed during project
preparation, and for strengthening environmental management and regulations. Due to its success, the
contract was extended to increase the number of districts covered by management plans from 5 to 15. It is
rated as highly satisfactory. The results are documented in seven reports and a video, including the
following activities and outputs (see also Annex 8):

(a)   Coastal Hazard Zone Mapping - Hazard zones were identified and mapped for three prevalent
      hazard risks, erosion, flooding and landslip. The entire coastline of Samoa was mapped using aerial
      photographs and detailed field work of surveys and villager interviews. The mapping showed that 82
      percent of the coastline was sensitive to these hazards, with erosion and flooding being the main
      hazards affecting the two main islands, and landslip being the chief hazard on some of the smaller
      islands.

(b)   Coastal Infrastructure Management Strategy - The CIM strategy, with a theme of making
      communities resilient to natural hazards, was made a national policy document endorsed by the
      Cabinet. It outlines policies and objectives for managing natural hazard risks and the planning of
      coastal infrastructure. Importantly, the strategy encourages the use of appropriate interventions,
      including non-structural interventions to preserve coastal ecosystems.

(c)   Coastal Infrastructure Management Plans - The CIM Plans are the key tool for realizing the
      strategy in practice. They were developed through extensive consultation with all villages in a
      District, through traditional consultations with elders (matai and pulenuu) using annotated aerial
      photographs and inspections to identify assets at risk and intervention options. Each Plan was
      endorsed by the Minister for Lands and all village heads as a pact guiding land use management and
      coastal protection. The Plans help communities and government improve resilience by identifying
      preferred management actions and solutions. Fifteen CIM Plans were produced in the local and


                                                    - 8 -

       English languages.

(d)    Coastal/Environmental Advisory Services - The services provided guidance and training on
       environmental management and design of coastal works to staff of DLSE and PWD in a series of six
       visits. Interim Codes of Environmental Practice (COEPs) were produced and formally adopted by
       PWD/MWTI to support environmental specifications in road planning, design, construction and
       maintenance, and in coastal protection works. Their purpose is to ensure that minimum
       environmental standards are met and appropriate procedures are undertaken to reduce the
       environmental impact of various activities related to road works and services.

C.2 Updating Geographical Information

This sub-component procured the land information and systems needed for enhancing the effectiveness of
other parts of the project: Aerial Photography and GIS. It is rated highly satisfactory.

(a)      Aerial Photography: In order to provide a reliable basis for asset management maps, and for
         mapping natural hazard zones, up-to-date topographical information was obtained through aerial
         photography of the whole territory (other forms of remote sensing such as satellite imagery were
         less cost effective at that time). As the value of the photographs and maps became evident, more
         maps and features were requested, so the contract was revised and completed 26 months after the
         original date of completion with a cost increase of 53 percent. The main outputs included: (i)
         1:50,000 orthophotos with contours of the entire territory; (ii) 1:5,000 orthophotos with and
         without contours for the coastal zones; (iii) 1:50,000 topographical maps of Samoa; and (iv) GIS
         Data at 1:10,000 scale in electronic format.

(b)      Geographical Information Management:             A computer and GIS (MAPInfo) software were
         purchased to access, analyse and print the orthophotos and GIS layers for the coastal hazard
         mapping work. GIS layers included: contours, buildings, cultivation, hydrology, land use,
         localities, roads, relief, off-shore, text and vegetation. Staff were trained in the use of design and
         GIS software. MNRE also established a service in providing land images and data in various
         formats to the public and goverment, including protocols for intellectual property rights.

C.3 Extending Coastal Protection

This sub-component was implemented by PWD/MWTI. The two sections of coastal protection works, at
Fagalii and Faga, originally planned to be carried out under IAM-1, were taken out of the project - Fagalii
was carried out by PWD with local funds, and the Faga works were withdrawn due to adjacent
developments.

Three sites were added to the program as local priorities - Manono-Uta, Fasitoo-Uta and Mulinuu
(completion of a gap at the end of the Japan-funded wall). The evaluation and design were conducted by a
local consultant trained under the Coastal Environmental Advisory Services (C.1), however, the design
services were so slow that final documents were delivered about 32 weeks late on a 10 week contract
period. This severely affected the construction programme which was deferred to Phase 2. Overall, the
component was only moderately satisfactory, because PWD/MWTI showed little commitment to adopting
the environmentally sustainable approach to the design and construction of the protection at the original
sites, and at Manono-Uta resisted an action required to conserve a mangrove area.




                                                       - 9 -

D. Institutional Strengthening

This component addressed the core long-term development objective of reforming public sector
management and increasing the role of the private sector, in ways specific to each agency. The main
component reformed the PWD from a traditional service provider to an asset manager and policy office,
while transferring services and assets to the private sector. To improve budget and programming capacity,
an asset management system was established covering all publicly owned roads, bridges and sea defences.
For lands and environment (DLSE), an institutional review was followed by restructuring under a
Government-wide plan. Road Traffic Administration and Road Safety were improved with more efficient
administration tools, support for legislation and enforcement, and safety education programs. The business
practices of SAA were upgraded including corporate planning capacity, and minor airport operations were
reviewed. Overall this component is rated as highly satisfactory.

D.1 PWD Institutional Reform and Asset Management Services (PIRAMS)

Prior to the Project, the PWD was a traditional public works department and a large employer, providing
all services for roads, coastal infrastructure, public buildings, and general civil works including emergency
works, strongly influenced by the Minister. The management of heavy equipment had been established
under a separate state-owned corporation which was performing poorly. Previous studies (funded by
AusAID and the IDA Emergency Road Rehabiliation Project) had recommended devolution of services to
the private sector and conversion of PWD into a state-owned enterprise, but Ministry of Finance had
required the development of reliable financial and project management capacity as a pre-requisite. The task
aimed to introduce this major reform progressively - including first a strengthened department and second a
statutory authority or state-owned enterprise if determined feasible and appropriate - by making use of the
phasing afforded by the APL instrument. Due to social concerns, specific requirements were made for the
process to incorporate traditional cultural values. It was cofinanced by the Australian Agency for
International Development which had provided much prior institutional strengthening and which sought
more effective implementation by partnership in a major project.

The Phase 1 task had two objectives: (a) Redefine the role of the PWD to include commercial operations
and encourage development of the private sector; and (b) Implement procedures and systems for asset
management, financial management and environmental management, and strengthen human capacity.

The competitively selected international consultant team was led by a local former senior government
official experienced in corporate reform. On the reform issue, extensive consultations were conducted with
staff at all levels under the strong leadership of the Director. Although political changes early in the
contract restricted the pace and extent of reform under discussion, preparation continued. During Phase 1,
a large portion of the PWD expenditure program was contracted out to the private sector in relatively small
packages for qualified contractors and consultants. Sound plans were prepared for out-sourcing most
works and engineering services, for the creation of business units for key capital resources such as
workshop, quarry and asphalt operations, and for redeployment of staff. Later in October 2002, with new
ministerial leadership, the full reform measures were implemented rapidly, with a good transition plan,
generous social support and a minimal period of disruption. Staff were given options to stay, form
businesses or leave, and received training in business management. Some established business enterprises
for building maintenance and for road maintenance, which were then given direct contracts renewable
annually for up to two years. Most assets were divested, except two that were considered vulnerable to
monopoly - quarry and quality assurance services - which became business units. Staffing was downsized
by 83 percent from 403 to 58, with a focus on professional and managerial skills. The process was well
supported by the staff and public, and considered highly successful by Government and a model for other
public sector reform. Subsequently in June 2003 under a Government-wide plan, the organization was
merged into the MWTI which covers all modes of transport and infrastructure.


                                                      - 10 -

The team was also successful in delivering key business processes. A simple computerized system for
annual budget and program preparation was developed, named the Samoa Asset Management System
(SAMS).     A full inventory and condition survey was conducted of all road and coastal protection
infrastructure assets, and a traffic survey on representative road links - data was geo-referenced to integrate
with the GIS land image data collected under Component C (this revealed a referencing discrepancy which
is being addressed under Phase 2). Although a financial management system was recommended, the
Government required a standard package. For environmental management, the COEPs were adopted in an
Memorandum of Understanding with the DLSE/MNRE in 2001 and are now required by specifications for
all works executed by MWTI. A 10-year Road Sector Plan was prepared, using the SAMS data in the
Bank-supported Highway Development and Management (HDM-4) model and endorsed by Cabinet - this
identified the annual maintenance needs and priorized capacity expansion needs which formed the basis for
major investments to be made under Phase 2 and other programs.

This component was well-acclaimed nationally and achieved much more than planned for Phase 1 - it is
rated as highly satisfactory.

Road Feasibility Study Services

Detailed study of sub-project candidates from the Road Sector Plan was performed by local consultants,
and was intended also to build capacity among local consultants for evaluating economic feasibility. Three
remote roads were selected for improving basic access to remote communities (Fagaloa Bay, Tiavea, and
Sauniatu) and the expert guidance and training was part of the PIRAMS contract (above). In the event, the
selected local consultants included a competent transport economist and the input from the PIRAMS
consultant was usefully redirected elsewhere. The Fagaloa Bay Road was found the most feasible and
became a candidate for improvement under IAM-2, while the other two roads lacked justification for
upgrading. Future feasibility work will need to ensure adequate assessment of alternatives for intermediate
improvements so that appropriate solutions are found for all roads. This sub-component is rated as
satisfactory.


D.2 Asset Information Management Advisory Services

This component was open-ended at appraisal and aimed at providing the Government with a basis for
expanding the concepts of asset management and information and communications technology
Government-wide, beyond the sector focus of the Project.             At the time there was no Information
Communications Technology (ICT) policy in Government and computerization was occurring on an ad hoc
basis in individual departments. The Steering Committee and Ministry of Finance opted to focus the
services on developing a framework for the establishment of a Government-wide area computer network
and asset information management system. The report outlined a framework of ICT policy and protocols,
and recommendations for wide area network communications between departments. As a result of the
report, the Government proceeded to establish a national commission on ICT and to develop an ICT policy
and protocols. Also, detailed specifications were prepared for the procurement of ICT hardware that would
connect the four Project implementing agencies to a Wide Area Network and provide internal network
communications and these formed the basis for a consolidated procurement of ICT under components C2
and D for each agency. No specific steps were taken to disseminate the concepts of asset management to
other sectors. The subcomponent is rated satisfactory.




                                                     - 11 -

D.3 Traffic and Road Safety Administration

Under the Department of Transport and Department of Police, vehicle and driver administration were
paper-based and unreliable, and accident rates were rising especially in child fatalities. This component
comprised three activities, and is rated highly satisfactory overall, i.e.:


(a)     Road Traffic Administration System (RTAS): This comprsied: (i) Computer system to record
        accident data, vehicle registrations, inspection records, driver testing and licensing records and
        vehicle ownership records; (ii) Improve driver training and testing; (iii) Upgrade vehicle inspection
        procedures; (iv) Develop and introduce road safety education; (v) Review relevant legislation; and
        (vi) Improve work site traffic management. The scope and cost estimate were revised upwards at
        the time of procurement reflecting a re-assessment of the needs and value of the services. The
        consultant team brought useful experience from Australia and Fiji and produced an economical and
        sound system. The contract was extended in scope by 46 percent, and the final report was
        endorsed by all involved parties. The Department of Transport adopted the findings quickly,
        however the Police were slow to adopt the new system and full implementation has begun only
        since the transfer of transport administration to the new MWTI. Further work needs to be done in
        the area of traffic and road safety administration, such as better data collection, improved ICT for
        the Police, more training in all aspects, better funding and new traffic legislation.

(b)     Road Traffic Safety: An education campaign was designed and conducted by the secretariat of the
        Transport Control Board (TCB). The campaign used the communications vehicle and audio-visual
        equipment procured under the Project to conduct a road-show around all primary and secondary
        schools, and was very successful both in the effectiveness of the message and in building capacity
        in the TCB.

(c)     Traffic Management and Road Safety Equipment: This included: Motorcycles for the traffic
        police (2); Hand-held radar speed detectors (2); Blood alcohol testing unit (1); Road Safety
        Education vehicle; Computers and electronic whiteboard for educational aids.

D.4 DLSE Institutional Review

An Institutional Review of DLSE was carried out as part of the contract for Coastal and Environmental
Management (see above) with a view to formalising the reorganisation of the Department in the future.
The review showed the capacity constraints and the distribution of resources within DLSE and proposed
planning, restructuring and outsourcing of some activities. The Department then undertook internal review
and consultations, and developed a new structure to accommodate additional responsibilities after a merger
into a larger organization, the MNRE, as it was at the end of the Project. The developments were led
internally and the task is rated as satisfactory.

D.5 Institutional Strengthening of Samoa Airport Authority

Under this sub-component, advisory services were provided to SAA to improve their business processes
and performance, with the aim of becoming financially self-sustaining. Business and corporate plans were
prepared, including suggestions for reducing operating costs and enhancing revenues to assist in cost
recovery, based on analysis of the airport operations and services. Guidance was given on strengthening
financial management and a computer-based accounting system was installed. The Business Plan was well
received and has guided the commercial development of SAA. With an increase in air traffic tariffs, the
passenger departure tax and concessions, the SAA already recovered 78 percent of total costs (operations
and capital, including the on-lending interest on the IDA Credit) in 2003/04 and forecasts breakeven by


                                                     - 12 -

2007/08. Calls were made for the Government to fully fund public service obligations made on SAA, and
pass on the upper airspace revenues to contribute towards air traffic control costs.

Finally, a study of the business case for the three minor airports was carried out as follow-up to the
preparation study for the airport component. This showed the high costs of maintaining all minor airport
operations, and recommended, inter alia, closure of the Fagalii Airport near Apia for safety and
environmental reasons and because it substitutes for services that could be provided from Faleolo. The
Government closed Fagalii at the end of 2004, which has improved the viability of Faleolo and realized
substantial savings for SAA, and upgraded Maota airport on Savaii to international status for regional
trips. Satisfactory.

E. Project Management

Project oversight was the responsibility of a multi-agency Steering Committee that comprised all
participating agencies. In order to ensure good quality of management in a Project of this size and
complexity, involving four implementing agencies, a PMU employing a local independent consulting firm
was created to act as project manager. A project component manager was also appointed for each of the
three main implementing agencies (MWTI, MNRE and SAA) to assist in implementation and all decisions
were authorized by the line management in each agency. The PMU reported to the Ministry of Finance and
supported the Steering Committee. This model of outsourcing project management performed extremely
well and was instrumental in achieving the objectives of both project performance and internal capacity.
Capacity was developed in each of the agencies through the direct line reporting relationships and the
accountability required on the Steering Committee. The model also served to strengthen the concept of
private sector support in Government services, and to build capacity in local consultants. The services
included successful preparation of the second Phase Project. Highly satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Airport component: This was justified originally on the basis of the adverse impact on the economy if the
airport had to be closed even temporarily (a loss of about $3 million for a 1-month closure), and on value
of individual components. As-built with a 34 percent cost increase to $8.8 million, the airport was still
fully justified on a cost effectiveness basis and fully met or exceeded operating standards. The financial
sustainability of the Airport Authority is positive in operating cash flow and improving in overall net
income with forecast breakeven by 2010. Sustainability is likely because the traffic growth of 11% p.a. and
passenger growth of 6.8% p.a. have exceeded the threshold of 4-5% assumed in the original analysis.

Bridge component: For four bridges completed: NPV = USD 24.5 million. B/C = 10.6 (compared with
NPV US$ 19.9 million and B/C = 10.3, originally after adjustment for reduced scope).

Road safety and pedestrian facilities: The costs were three times higher than estimated but the switching
value is still less than the statistical compensation value for fatalities, e.g.: Cost US$520,600 (v.
US$160,000); Switching value = US$10,180 per fatality (v. US$3,218 originally, and US$13,300 for
statistical compensation). The intangible benefits of environmental enhancement and flood mitigation were
considered substantial but were not quantified.

Coastal risk mitigation strategy and institutional capacity development components provide significant
intangible benefits that were not quantified. At a macroeconomic level, the impact of Tropical Cyclone
Heta in January 2004 (9% of GDP) was only one tenth of the impact of cyclones Ofa and Val in 1990 and
1991 respectively, in large part because of the coastal protection and risk mitigation which had been put in
place under the ongoing risk mitigation program. The institutional reform impacts may be measurable over



                                                      - 13 -

coming years through increased efficiency and productivity in the public works sector.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The Institutional Development Impact has been high.

The impact was high in public works, where the PWD was reformed and downsized from a
service-provider role to become the MWTI with a role as policy maker and asset manager. PWD divested
itself of its operational role and key assets, and out-sourced the execution of public works and services to
the private sector. While the organizational and staff changes were large, the preparations and social safety
net provisions were excellent and the change in role was achieved smoothly. An asset and information
management system for infrastructure assets and codes of environmental practice were also developed and
established. A significant risk remains in the staffing of the new organization where filling all the manager
and professional level posts at the available remuneration is a challenge that is also noted in other sectors.
However, there are reasonable grounds for confidence that in time the necessary personnel will be hired and
the momentum of maintaining and using the asset management system will resume.

The upgrading of systems and procedures in road transport administration has had a substantial impact,
especially since its transfer from the Departments of Police and of Transport to the new Ministry (MWTI)
where it is coordinated with road transport policy and road management. The vehicle registration and
driver licensing process has been made much more efficient for road users, and these have also enhanced
the monitoring of vehicle ownership, the size of vehicle fleet, and their registration as assets against
financial transactions. The related programs on road safety education reached thousands of school children
and families with a high degree of coverage, and most importantly the awareness campaign was undertaken
by the oversight agency, the TCB, greatly increasing their capacity and confidence.

The institutional development impact in the airport authority (SAA) was both timely and substantial - the
strengthening of financial management, installation of a new accounting system, preparation of business
and corporate plans, improvement of the structure of concession contracts and more proactive outreach by
SAA to tourism and business groups, has been applied in three successive annual business plans, and
revenues have been increased. Follow-up surveys of the travelling public show improved service
performance in most respects.

For lands and environment, the institutional impacts have been high. The coastal infrastructure component
established natural hazard risk management and the national CIM strategy as a key focus area in the new
Ministry MNRE, and reinforced the traditional consultation procedures to be applied in coastal protection
cases. Although the advisory service inputs on organizational change were modest, the department (DLSE)
made very effective progress with only internal resources.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

A lack of major economic shock during the project period enabled the project to be implemented without
disruption.

A lack of capacity in the private sector caused delays in the delivery of design services, which contributed
to the delays and deferrals of some of the works.

The close attention and support provided by the donors' team from IDA and AusAID assisted in resolving



                                                      - 14 -

issues as they arose and focused on results.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The government was very supportive of the project, especially the Ministry of Finance. Adequate
counterpart budget was provided, sound budgetary measures were taken in response to cost over-runs, and
very progressive decisions were taken in support of the public works reform. The roll-over of some
activities to financing under Phase 2 reflected a sound approach to prioritization, and sound fiscal
management. The Steering Committee operated well, met regularly and gave good joint leadership of the
Project. Procurement was handled well and with good integrity. The procurement authorization process
however showed mixed performance in the latter stages of the Project, with excessive delays in clearance
times and changes being made to the tendered conditions of contract after award.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

On the airport component, the partnering arrangement between the client, consultant and the contractor was
effective in avoiding disruptions and for the horizontal works in controlling costs.

A significant cause of Project delay in the latter stages was the slow performance of some of the
international and domestic consultants employed to carry out studies and design work. Not one design
assignment was completed on time and many went several months beyond the end of the contract period.
Unclear institutional arrangements within PWD for the management and supervision of contracts resulted
in some confused communication between Client and Consultant. Verbal agreements and statements were
not always confirmed in writing, resulting in disputes later in the process. Poor internal communications
within PWD were also a contributory factor.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Project costs and financing followed the original structure, however there were cost increases in the range
of 21 to 35 percent in each component except the road component which was adjusted to absorb the other
increases (see Annex 2). Although appraisal estimates were based on local historical costs, some of them
were too low, especially for the airport component. Some cost increases were caused by conscious
decisions to raise a design standard or expand the physical scope at the request of the Client - in each case,
these were reviewed by the joint Steering Committee and by the Bank's team. In all, a total of about $4
million worth of works (or 20 percent of the final project cost) was rolled over to IAM-2. The Government
contributed an additional $1.6 million in counterpart funds to address part of the over-run. The AusAID
grant of AUD 2.3 million was fully disbursed without change - due to depreciation, the AusAID share of
financing declined slightly during the Project.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability is rated as Likely for the following reasons:

(a)      The Government has demonstrated a high level of commitment to a long-term strategy of
         infrastructure asset management, including implementation of the priority projects identified under
         the road sector plan through Phase 2 of the Program. Furthermore, their output-based budget
         approach reinforces the use of the asset management approach and systems by MWTI;

(b)      The reform of MWTI was completed with full Government support, and there remains strong
         commitment in MWTI and the Public Service Commission to ensuring that staffing complements
         are filled. Some difficulty with filling professional positions is common across all professional



                                                      - 15 -

        sectors in Samoa and in the region, and some adjustments have been made in the remuneration
        scales to reduce the disparity with the private sector which is a primary factor. In the meantime,
        MWTI is filling the two key vacancies with staff on consultant contracts.

(c)     SAA has been applying the business and corporate plans and business recommendations developed
        under the Project, and has also further increased tariffs recently - its financial status continues to
        improve and is close to the original forecast trends for the Project outcome, and the service levels
        of the airport operations are meeting the expected performance standards.

(d)     The effectiveness of the strategy for managing coastal hazard risks is dependent on the effective
        utilization of the management (CIM) Plans and compliance of coastal works with them. This
        requires the ongoing commitment and support of district and village leaders and communities in
        those districts covered to date, and more importantly, compliance by the MWTI when planning or
        implementing works in those areas. Under Phase 2, MNRE is tasked with strengthening the
        authority of the CIM Plans in the planning consent process under legislation, and these issues will
        be addressed further under Phase 2, including ongoing public awareness raising. The risk
        management approach is used as a model for the South Pacific region (ref. 43, Annex 7).

(e)     The road traffic administration improvements in vehicle and driver administration, and in traffic
        management, are being implemented more effectively now since the transfer of responsibilities
        from the police to MWTI during the 2003 rationalization of ministry portfolios. The road safety
        awareness campaign was led and staffed internally and this is expected to continue; and

(f)     This project is followed by the second phase, IAM-2, which is building on the activities started
        under this project and reinforcing the outcomes.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The residual activities of IAM-1 have already been implemented by the agencies responsible and financed
under IAM-2.

In regard to MWTI staffing, urgent action needs to be taken to fill two vacant positions so that the
long-term planning and implementing of the infrastructure maintenance plan can continue and annual
budgets and work programs can be prepared through the SAMS asset management systems.

The SAA Board is responsible for updating and authorizing the SAA business plan. The financial forecasts
will be reviewed by MOF, SAA and the Bank in relation to the Program targets. Some further refinements
and minor changes need to be made to the works carried out on the passenger terminal, but these have been
phased into normal maintenance planning.

The organizational structure and responsibilities for road transport administration, traffic management and
road safety have been redefined in the new MWTI, and these will be reviewed and strengthened as part of
the Phase 2 progression to statutory authority, such as a Land Transport Authority.

MNRE has adopted the CIM planning process and it has become part of their regular operations. A
program for regular monitoring of coastal features and infrastructure needs to be maintained. The services
for managing geographic information have been incorporated into the new MNRE organization.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Performance was highly satisfactory. Because Samoa is a small country with limited resources, it was
necessary to identify a project with several different though related components in order to make it of a


                                                     - 16 -

worthwhile size. IDA's team identified these components jointly with Government and developed the
concepts to ensure that they were consistent with the Government and IDA strategies for the country. IDA
assigned a team well experienced in working in small Pacific islands, and worked jointly with AusAID who
assigned consultants to the team and provided consular coordination. The joint team delivered a
well-designed project, focussing on the sound management of infrastructure assets as its core and including
components that addressed the country's greatest needs in maintenance, replacement of old structures,
coastal hazard management and improving air access for residents and a growing tourist trade. The project
also supported the Government's efforts to restructure the public sector and strengthen investment selection
procedures, IDA's lending strategy which emphasized institutional and policy changes to encourage public
sector reform, private sector participation, and the infrastructure sector, and AusAID's program of
institutional strengthening.

7.2 Supervision:

Performance was fully satisfactory. Throughout the project IDA supervised this project closely, and jointly
with AusAID. The project team had the same team leader throughout and, on average, two supervision
missions were mounted each year. An AusAID staff consultant joined one mission each year and changed
at mid-term. The project components needed some fine tuning as implementation progressed and this was
carried out by the experienced project team without disruption to the smooth running of the project. As
needed, the necessary specialists were brought in to deal with the aspects of aviation, coastal risk
management, social issues, environment and financial management, under the leadership of the engineering
speciality of the team leader.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall performance was highly satisfactory. Through paying close attention to detail in the
preparation and supervision of the project, giving good support during implementation and maintaining
joint operation with the cofinancier, the outcome of this very complex, though small, project was very
successful. This bodes well for the second phase project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Performance was satisfactory. The Government was actively involved in the preparation of the project as it
fitted well with its long-term strategy in the various sectors. They established an effective Steering
Committee with broad representation and provided prompt strong support in authorizing the various stages
of the Project and related budgets. However, a number of cost estimates were low because they did not
adequately reflect contemporary engineering standards, best practices and site conditions.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Performance was satisfactory. The Government, as represented by the Ministry of Finance, was very
supportive during the implementation of the project. The project administration arrangements worked
effectively and short-comings were generally addressed in a reasonable time. Project accounting and
disbursement management were generally very good. Procurement processing was slow on a number of
occasions and required special attention, especially late in the Project. On those occasions when additional
funds were needed to complete a component satisfactorily, the necessary funds were provided by
Government.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Performance of the various implementing agencies was satisfactory overall. SAA performed very well, and



                                                     - 17 -

expedited implementation of the airport components. DLSE, after an ineffective start, performed well and
the coastal hazard management and information components were competently managed by the Project
Component Manager, and became well institutionalized under a new Director. PWD performance was
generally uneven, with strong leadership in the reform agenda but substantial delays in processing activities
and appointment of the Project Component Manager - however the appointee was an experienced engineer
and finally facilitated the multiple number of procurements involved. The PMU provided a skilled team
and, when there was a sudden loss of the team leader and sale of the firm at mid-term, the Government was
effective in managing the transition.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall the performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Lessons learned from Phase 1 cover project design issues, policy issues, and project implementation issues,
as follows:

Project design: The project design concept of combining related subsectors in a broader sector project has
worked satisfactorily, despite involving a total of five agencies. Keys to success include: (i) An effective
multi-agency steering committee, empowered to make project cost and coordination decisions - in this case,
with MOF in the chair, balanced coordination between implementing agencies was feasible, but only if the
agency representatives were also empowered; (ii) A Project Management Unit, supplemented by specific
project support in each implementing agency, proved critically important in this multi-agency project, and
was still effective in building capacity due to the line reporting and accountability of each agency head for
authorizing project expenditures; (iii) intensive monitoring and supervision with a good skill range, by both
Bank and Government; and (iv) well-defined indicators relevant to each agency and some to the project.

Adaptable Program Lending: The two-phase APL structure is working well from the Project perspective.
Especially in respect of the public sector reform activities, the phasing has been helpful because for two
agencies (PWD and DLSE) the pace and targets differed from that expected at appraisal, with both in the
end exceeding the targets. In the case of public works, the merger with transport also had not been
envisaged and thus the objectives and scope of Phase 2 have been adapted to the changed situation. For the
roads and coastal components, the phasing has enabled a rolling program approach to be adopted, with
some road activities being deferred for cost reasons and roll-out of the coastal management plans being
advanced from 12 percent to 30 percent The Government had reservations concerning fiscal space when
approaching Phase 2 due to changed financial commitments, however the long-term Program structure and
some flexibility with the project size resolved those issues.

Public Sector Reform in Small Island States: The public works experience shows that sector reform can
be introduced smoothly when the timing can be chosen - in this case, alignment of a national reform
agenda, sector political will, committed executive leader, comprehensive consultations and a sound,
well-designed plan. Built-in support of fledgling business units for the transition period was successful.
Stronger attention needs to be paid to the staffing continuity, skills and experience needed to launch the new
organization, and the shallow market for professional and managerial staff in small island states is a
significant risk to be addressed.

Emergency Risk Management: The introduction of hazard risk management into public sector
management needs a number of elements to be successful. The model developed here comprised (i) a
national strategy for natural hazard risks, (ii) a series of community-based management plans that are
based on objective risk assessments and active community participation and jointly authorized by leaders
and the Government; and (iii) a specific short-term program and budget for activities and works. These



                                                       - 18 -

proved successful in the preparation stage, however it is recognized that sustainability depends also on
other stakeholders. Stakeholders such as construction and business interests can pre-empt the sustainable
solution if there are inadequate controls over private development and private incentives. In regard to
financing, the support of a Program of this size, continuity and duration has enabled the momentum and the
resources to be mobilized to implement the whole strategy and implementation - typical regional initiatives
generally have difficulty progressing past a pilot stage due to the challenge of scaling up, and thus
international or bilateral agencies have a vital role to play in helping to implement a complete and effective
risk management framework in practice. Lastly the Project experience emphasizes the importance of
incorporating a risk prevention and mitigation approach in infrastructure planning, including sustainable
nonstructural solutions, to minimize costly damages and economic disruption in the event of an emergency.

Project Implementation Issues: The preparation of fiduciary arrangements such as procurement and
financial management needs to cover the whole transaction cycle in order to streamline the process. In this
case, the authorization of standard procurement documents and processing needs to be agreed through the
line agency, the procurement oversight body, and the legal authority/advisor in advance so that
micro-managing, revision and delays are avoided. This should aim at harmonization of documents and
procedures, with a stable country system.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

1.       Project Objectives, Design and Implementation

The Borrower feels that the project was well designed and acknowledges the assistance of the Bank in
helping to bring cohesion to such a diverse project with four different implementing agencies. We have
come to appreciate that good design and preparation were crucial elements for the overall success of the
project. The only concern with the project preparation would be that some of the estimates were well below
the subsequent tender prices.

The project fitted the Government's policy framework as set out in the Statement of Economic Strategy
(1996) which involves the enabling of the private sector, strengthening of human resources and the reform
of the public sector. The use of an adaptable programme loan has been invaluable for the transfer of
service provision from the public to the private sector. The steady supply of opportunities to supply
infrastructure design, supervision and construction services over a period of several years is helping to
build capacity in the private sector. It has also allowed opportunities for the project to be adjusted between
phases and synchronized to suit the ongoing developments in public sector reforms.

The objectives of the project were simply stated and provided a clear focus for the overall purpose of the
project which for the purposes of implementation was broken down into 97 separate components. The
large number of components sometimes seemed a daunting procurement challenge in terms of maintaining
the overall schedule. However, given the diverse nature of the project, the number of implementing
agencies (4), and the need to provide plentiful opportunities to the fledgling local private sector we believe
it was appropriate and perhaps unavoidable that the procurement was packaged in this manner.

Part A of the project being the works at Faleolo International Airport got off to an excellent start with rapid
appointment of the design and supervision services in 1999. For financial reasons some works components
under Part A had to be deferred to 2000 but everything was substantially complete by November 2000.
There were delays with the delivery of fire engines from Europe leading to the deduction of liquidated
damages and insurance claims but this component was successfully concluded in April 2001.



                                                       - 19 -

Part B Components were hampered by a delay in the recruitment of a suitable Project Component Manager
for PWD, and the redirection of funds to airport works in the first year of the project. Subsequently things
improved but increases to the cost of components (including those in parts A, C and D) above the original
project estimates caused a number of the B components to be deferred to the second phase. They will
however all be completed in the overall IAMP.

Part C: This component proceeded satisfactorily throughout. The scope was amended to increase the
number of CIM Plans from 5 to 15.

Part D: Some initial delays were encountered with the procurement of the services for the significant D1
component while the TOR were carefully reviewed and refined. After the services were procured the
consultants developed two alternative strategies for the reforms. One envisaged the establishment of
business units within the PWD for later privatization and the other, eventually adopted, was for a more
direct transfer of most functions to the private sector. Implementation proceeded very smoothly thereafter.

Part E: The arrangements that were eventually adopted for the management of this project were initially
questioned by the Borrower which led to some delay in the procurement of the PMU and the Credit being
declared effective. However, the implementation of the project has demonstrated that the model that was
adopted, (using an interdepartmental Steering Committee supported by a full time PMU provided by a
private firm, and individual consultants as Project Component Managers in each Implementing Agency),
has been a very effective means of delivery.

2.        Achievement of Objectives

The Borrower is satisfied that the project has been successful in achieving its objectives.

    (i) International air transport infrastructure is sustainably adequate for economic growth: The
          project has brought Faleolo International Airport to compliance with International Civil Aviation
          Organization (ICAO) Standards and improved the level of customer satisfaction amongst
          travellers. Airport capacity has been enhanced. The financial viability of SAA is improving with
          69% of costs covered by income at December 2004. This is expected to further improve following
          the closure of Fagalii Airport in January 2005.

    (ii) Reliability and Safety of Road Assets is improved: Due to the deferral of a number of components
          due to lack of financial resources this objective cannot be considered to be entirely achieved.
          However, four priority bridge replacements were completed and two areas with heavy pedestrian
          traffic were made much safer due to the construction of pedestrian facilities. Design work was
          completed on all other components. This objective will still be met within the overall IAMP.

    (iii) Environmentally and socially sustainable management of coastal infrastructure is initiated: An
         excellent database of maps, aerial photographs with GIS layers for topography and hazards has
         been established. A substantial inroad has been made on putting in place sustainable planning for
         the improvement of resilience in coastal communities through the preparation of CIM Strategy and
         CIM Plans which respect Samoan culture and customs. EIA processes have been applied to all
         components under IAM-1 and to a number of other projects as well. COEPS have been developed
         and used in contract specifications.

    (iv) Management of Infrastructure Assets is becoming service oriented involving public, private and


                                                      - 20 -

          community Stakeholders: It is considered that a major reform was implemented under this
          component with the service provision for road infrastructure design, construction and maintenance
          transferred totally to the private sector and the establishment of asset management capabilities and
          a road sector plan in the new Ministry of Works. This was achieved with support from all
          stakeholders including staff of the former PWD. The final outcome gave the private sector an even
          more significant involvement as the service provider than was envisaged during project
          preparation. Road user management services were also strengthened and restructuring of DLSE
          was facilitated.

3.        Major factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes:

The major factors affecting implementation were as follows:

    (i) Delay in appointing the PMU while the Borrower reconsidered the model proposed during project
          preparation. The establishment of the PMU was a condition for effectiveness of the Credit and so
          this delayed the effectiveness date which was extended twice. This had no serious effect on project
          outcomes as an interim project manager was appointed.

    (ii) The delay in identifying a suitable candidate for the position of Project Component Manager in the
          PWD led to an almost corresponding one-year delay in the implementation of the part B
          components. As a result of the slow start, part B had to absorb the full impact of cost increases in
          parts A, C and D that had proceeded in advance, as well as increases in the cost of part B. This
          meant that the outcome was affected as there were insufficient financial resources to implement the
          full scope of part B.

    (iii) Actual costs substantially exceeded estimates in all parts of the project. Although the Borrower
          increased its contribution to the project finances a number of components still had to be deferred to
          phase 2.

    (iv) Delays in procurement towards the end of the project caused some slippage on the programme.
          The main causes were a misunderstanding between the Implementing Agencies and the Attorney
          General's Office on the appropriate timing for legal review, and the duration of the legal reviews.
          It is considered that there will be a better understanding of the procedural steps in Phase 2.

    (v) Delays in submissions of designs by both international and local consultants caused major slippage
          to the implementation schedule. This, together with (iv) above, led to a request for an extension of
          the loan period from 31 December 2002 to 31 March 2004.

    (vi) Capacity constraints in the implementing agencies meant that counterparts could not always work
          alongside consultants. This was partly overcome by training workshops to build capacity but staff
          shortages are recognized as a threat to sustainability, particularly in the reformed Ministry of
          Works.

4.        Bank and Borrower Performance

The Borrower was highly satisfied with the performance of the Bank. It was particularly beneficial to have
continuity of Bank personnel from the time of preparation through to completion. Clearances were for the
most part timely and supervision was enthusiastic and comprehensive. We were given considerable
assistance by the Bank staff and found the approach to be helpful and flexible rather than critical and


                                                        - 21 -

pedantic.

We consider the Borrower's performance to be highly satisfactory. Counterpart funds have always been
made available to suit the implementation programme except in FY99/00. That year the budgeted amount
was insufficient to the increase of the cost of airport works tender prices compared to the pre-bid estimates.
The problem was resolved by using value engineering to reduce the cost of the contract combined with
some re-scheduling. The final contribution of the Borrower exceeded the original financing plan by about
33 percent.

Procurement was carried out reasonably effectively in a completely open and transparent manner as
required by Bank guidelines and the Government of Samoa procedures. It is acknowledged that there were
some delays in obtaining legal clearances for contract award but this was partly due to a misunderstanding
about the timing of the legal review, which has subsequently been rectified. The administration procedures
for the project and the financial management system worked effectively and efficiently throughout. The
Steering Committee met regularly and took prompt action to overcome any constraints that were impeding
progress.

5.        Lessons Learnt

    (i) The value of good project design and preparation.

    (ii) The need for clear lines of communication between implementing agencies and consultants
          providing design or supervision services.

    (iii) In the reformed agency for public works, the need to adequately empower the supervision
          consultants with sufficient authority to administer the construction contracts on behalf of the
          agency.

    (iv) The value of an overall PMU to co-ordinate activities and provide support to the implementing
          agencies in a project that has more than one implementing agency.

    (v) The value of strong consultative procedures and the value of local involvement in the project.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Partner Comments By AUSAID:

While acknowledging the overall achievements of the project, it was not entirely successful from an
AusAID perspective. AusAID is of the view that the emphasis was on "getting the job done" on time and
the opportunity to develop the PWD staff by using consultants to coach and mentor the staff was lost.
Time pressures on consultants meant that they actually carried out tasks which - under a different project
design - could have been done by staff. AusAID needs to be sure that in any future institutional
strengthening projects (ISPs) co-financed with other donor partners, it ensures that the lessons learned in
other ISPs are taken into account in the initial project design.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

N/A.



                                                     - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Key transport and coastal infrastructure     100%                                        Airport 100%
assets upgraded                                                                          Road and bridges 70%
                                                                                         Coastal and environmental 100% (except
                                                                                         seawalls 20%)
                                                                                         Institutional development 100%




Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
International Airport Upgraded to 15-yr      Overall 100%                                Overall 100%
capacity and ICAO standard                                                                - Main runway 3000 m, grooved surface
                                                                                           - Air Traffic Control upgraded, resited
                                                                                           - ICAO Safety standards Cat. 9
                                                                                           - Terminal performance IATA Cat. C
Road, bridge and pedestrian facility works   Overall 70%                                 4 bridges built (67%).
program implemented                                                                        Road rehabilitation (0%) (deferred)
                                                                                           2 footpaths, related works (50%)
Implementation of coastal infrastructure     Number of Districts adopting CIM Strategy   National CIM Strategy adopted.
management strategy                          and Plans = 3                               - District CIM plans implemented = 15
                                                                                         (500% of target, 43% of country)
Coastal hazard and land maps available       100% coverage                               - 100% coastline (700 km) mapped x 3
                                                                                         hazards
                                                                                         - Aerial photos, topographical & contour
                                                                                         maps available 100% coverage of country
- Coastal protection built                   - 0 of 3 sites                              0 of 3 seawalls (deferred)
PWD reform stage of adoption                 Downsizing complete;                        Downsizing (83 percent staff reduction)
                                              - Asset mgt (SAMS) & financial mgt systems complete
                                             100% operational                            - 3 Business units operational
                                                                                         - SAMS installed, operational
                                                                                         - Accounting system installed
Road Safety Action Plan implemented          RSAP implemented                            RSAP implemented 2000-2003
(RASP).
                                              RTAS systems applied by Police             - RTAS (registration and licensing systems)
 - Vehicle registration and Driver licensing                                             operational in MWTI and applied.
system operational
MNRE (DLSE) institutional review             Completed                                   MNRE reorganized based on review.

 - SAA financially viable                     69% full costs covered                     - Operating income/expenses = 126%
                                                                                         - Total income/expenses = 77%
Financial progress (% of total)              100% revised cost                           100% Revised cost = WST 61.08 million.
                                                                                         Cost transferred to Phase 2 = WST 13.15
                                                                                         million.
                                                                                         Revised cost full scope = WST 74.15 million.

1End of project




                                                               - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
A. Airport Infrastructure                                    6.52            8.78             135
B. Road System Infrastructure                                4.04            3.85              95
C. Coastal Infrastructure Provision                          2.01            2.43             121
D. Institutional Development                                 2.67            3.28             123
E. Project Management                                        1.13            1.46             129

Total Baseline Cost                                         16.37          19.80
 Physical Contingencies                                      1.61
 Price Contingencies                                         0.86
                          Total Project Costs               18.84          19.80
                   Total Financing Required                 18.84          19.80


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            5.40            4.90         0.00         0.00         10.30
                                   (3.70)          (3.50)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (7.20)
2. Goods                            1.90            0.30         0.20         0.00          2.40
                                   (1.90)          (0.30)      (0.20)         (0.00)       (2.40)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         4.80         1.30          6.10
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (4.80)         (0.00)       (4.80)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            7.30            5.20         5.00         1.30         18.80
                                   (5.60)          (3.80)      (5.00)         (0.00)      (14.40)




                                                - 24 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                         Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category              ICB                NCB                     2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                6.95               3.07              0.00             0.00              10.02
                                          (4.73)             (1.91)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (6.64)
   2. Goods                                1.55               0.14              0.00             0.00              1.69
                                          (1.48)             (0.14)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (1.62)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              6.56             1.53              8.09
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.48)           (0.00)            (5.48)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
       Total                               8.50               3.21              6.56             1.53              19.80
                                          (6.21)             (2.05)            (5.48)           (0.00)           (13.74)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of
      the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to statutory authority.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.         CoF.        Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.      CoF.
A. Airport Infrastructure      5.11         1.64                      5.84         2.94                114.3     179.3
B. Road System                 3.20         0.98                      2.75         1.10                 85.9     112.2
Infrastructure
C. Coastal Infrastructure      1.68         0.52                      1.71         0.72                101.8     138.5
Provision
D. Institutional               1.43                      1.30         1.98                    1.30     138.5               100.0
Development
E. Project Management          1.18                                   1.46                             123.7
Unallocated                    1.80                                                                      0.0
Total Financing               14.40         3.14         1.30        13.74         4.76       1.30      95.4     151.6     100.0




                                                          - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


1. Introduction. The methodology used for re-evaluation of the project economic analyses was the same
as used at appraisal, which is cost-effectiveness for the airport component and cost-benefit approach for the
road component. The key assumptions were also the same as used at appraisal, with traffic flows and
construction costs updated to reflect actual flows and costs in 2004.

2. Component A. Airport Infrastructure. The component as a whole was justified on the basis of the
extent of the impact and adjustments that would be imposed on the economy if the airport had to be closed,
even temporarily, as a result of failing to maintain the airport infrastructure, at the pending safety and
technical standards. This basis is confirmed by recent information, e.g.: (i) 95 percent of tourist
expenditure comes from tourists arriving by air: in 2002, 75 percent of these entered through Faleolo, and
this rose to over 90 percent from 2005 when Fagali'i airport was closed; (ii) Tourism directly accounted for
5.5 percent of the Gross National Product, and 10 percent when tourism-related services (tourism
accommodation and restaurant services and other domestic transport services) are included; and (iii)
Tourism and related services accounted for 14 percent of employment.

The scope of work was substantially as appraised. Since the operational safety and technical standards are
governed by International Civil Aviation Authorities for which there are limited technically feasible
alternatives, the basis of assessment is cost-effectiveness, as follows:

(a)      Operational and Safety Standards. The Faleolo Airport improvements are evaluated in Table
         A3.1. The airport facilities now comply with ICAO standards. A safety Audit Report (SAR,
         2001) of the SAA and its airports, including Faleolo International Airport, conducted by the New
         Zealand Civil Aviation Authority in 2001 certified the airport to be well maintained with no safety
         issues. The runway was certified to be in excellent condition. Regarding the rescue fire services,
         the new fire station had faster response times thereby removing the need for vehicles to go to
         standby during aircraft operations, and with the new emergency vehicles, Category 9 coverage was
         available in the airport as compared to the ICAO requirement of category 8 (and the original
         category 7). The new air traffic control tower facility was certified to be of a high standard. Air
         navigation aids were upgraded by SAA in 2004 to complete all requirements.

(b)      Airport Service Delivery. The passenger processing performance includes passenger and baggage
         processing times, baggage claim and customs inspection times. The performance standards
         conform to the International Air Transport Association (IATA) requirements for Category C
         operations, small international airports. An opinion survey of airport terminal users conducted in
         2001 reported very high rates of passenger satisfaction with the arrival and departure services and
         overall impression of the airport following the terminal works improvements. The average
         processing rates following the improvements were reported to be on average:
         (i) Immigration 10.5 seconds/person
         (ii) Baggage handling (a close indication of total processing time from immigration to exit)- 23
               minutes total
         (iii) Customs clearance 17 seconds/person.




                                                     - 26 -

                               Table A3 1. Faleolo Airport Improvements

             Infrastructure        Cost (USD `000)       Traffic Annual        Condition and          Status
                                                           Growth Rate            Remarks
                                                           (1998-2002)
                                Estimated   Actual
     Paving and Ancilliary        2, 470   3,892     Aircraft movements       Recommended by      Safety
     works (including                      (+58%)    11% FIA v. 0%            ICAO safety audit   requirements
     rehabilitation and                              national total           (1998)              complies with
     extension of the runaway                        (tripled to >9,000 from                      ICAO
     from 2,700m to 3,000m,                          2005 when Fagalii                            requirements since
     lightning/Taxiway and                           closed)                                      Nov 2000
     apron)
                                                     Passenger movements
                                                     6.8%
     Buildings (includes          2,200   3,059                               Raise passenger     Passenger
     terminal, ATC Tower and              (+39%)                              processing          processing
     Fire Station)                                                            standards to IATA   performance
                                                                              Category C          complies with IATA
                                                                              operations          standards for
                                                                                                  Category C
                                                                                                  operations since
                                                                                                  April 2001
     Equipment (includes fire    1,200     894                                ICAO category 7     Complies with
     tenders)                              (-26%)                             raise to Category 8 ICAO category 9
                                                                              requirements.       standards from Jan
                                                                                                  2000.
                                 5,870    7,845
                                          (+34%)


(c)  Commercial viability of Samoa Airport Authority (SAA). The capacity development assistance
     aimed to help SAA operate on a commercially viable and self-financing basis. Table 3.2 presents a
     financial summary of SAA from 1997/98 to 2003/04. This shows that SAA now has a positive
     operating cash flow and is gradually absorbing debt servicing since 2001/02, as follows:
     (i) Operating income increased consistently by about 8 percent p.a. due to increases in airport
           landing charges, building rentals, ground handling and passenger departure charges (an
           increase from WST 20 to WST 30). However, over 90 percent of revenue comes from tariffs,
           and little additional revenue was gained from concessions and other sources.
     (ii) Operating expenses increased substantially by about 50 percent with the new facilities, due in
           part to higher operating standards and in part to higher maintenance costs. SAA took cost
           reduction measures from 2003/04 onwards.
     (iii) Since 2000/01, expenses increased due to debt servicing in respect of on-lending from the IDA
           credit ­ SAA is one of few State-owned Enterprises required by MOF to repay a foreign loan
           sourced through the Government.
     (iv) After years of operating losses, the airport showed an operating surplus from 1999/2000
           onwards. Although the overall net income has been negative since 2001/02 when debt
           servicing began, the net income is improving steadily and the operating cash flows are positive
           (operating cash flows is approximated by deducting depreciation charges from operating
           losses).




                                                  - 27 -

                      Table 3.2. Financial Summary of the Samoa Airport Authority
            (years ending June 30,1996 through June 30, 2004 (in WST million, nominal prices)

        Profit and Loss        97/98    98/99       99/00      00/01      01/02        02/03       03/04
                                        (actual)    (actual)   (actual)   (actual)     (actual)    (budget)
        Income
        Departure Tax          1.886    1.804       2.704      3.308      2.986        2.958       4.133
        Landing Fees           1.354    1.370       2.421      2.736      2.435        2.659       2.650
        Concessions            0.110    0.075       0.352      0.520      0.439        0.320       0.461
        Other                                       0.144      0.244      0.197        0.141       0.120
        Subtotal                        --          5.621      6.809      6.056        6.325       7.636
        (operating income)
        Other                  0.110    0.150       0.149      0.137      0.113        0.141       0.120
        Total Income          3.664     3.524       5.770      6.946      6.169        6.467       7.756
        Expenses
        Operating Expenses     1.525    1.643       3.395      3.957      4.913        5.059       4.800
        Depreciation           2.400    2.400       1.977      2.576      3.422        3.628       3.700
        Interest               ---      ---         ---        0.321      1.163        1.213       1.250
        Other                  ---      ---         -0.079     0.076      0.155        0.241       0.250
        Total Expenses        5.441     5.431       5.451      6.931      9.654        10.151      10.000
        Net Income (Loss)     (1.777)   (1.887)     0.319      0.015      (3.485)      (3.684)     (2.244)


3.      Component B.1 Bridge Replacement. The economic evaluation was based on benefits arising
from avoiding the costs of bridge collapse. Four of the six bridges included at appraisal were constructed
and financed under Phase 1, namely Tua'efu, Lelata, Saleia and Falevao, completed by December 2002.
The actual costs were close to estimates except for the Lelata bridge, where a more substantial structure
was required. The benefits evaluated include savings in vehicle operating cost and time from avoiding the
need for detour and from widening capacity from one lane to two. Road safety was also enhanced but has
not been represented in economic terms. Table 3.3 presents a summary of the replacements and the results
of the cost-benefit analysis. The overall economic rate of return (EIRR) is 42 percent. The overall
economic net present value (NPV), based on a 12 per discount is WST 73.4 million with an overall
benefit/cost ratio of 10.6.

                         Table 3.3. Key Characteristics of Bridge Replacements

          Bridge           Cost             AADT         Outturn            Function / Remarks
                        (WST ,000)         (Veh/day)   Benefit:Cost
                                                           Ratio
                     Estimated Actual
        Tua'efu      1,200     1,310        1,176          11.1      1-lane steel truss replaced by 2-lane
                               (+9%)                                 concrete bridge
        Lelata       1,200    2,597         4,670           5.9      2-lane concrete bridge
                              (+116%)
        Saleia       1,500    1,302           150           5.2      2-lane concrete bridge
                              (-13%)
        Falevao      2,500    2,431           250          11.9      2-lane concrete bridge
                              (-3%)
        Overall      6,400    7,640                        10.6        NPV = WST 73.4 million
                               (+19%)


4.      Component B.3 Pedestrian Traffic Schemes. Two of the four pedestrian traffic schemes were
completed under Phase 1, at Beach Road and Covent Street completed in December 2002. The actual costs


                                                    - 28 -

were five times higher than the estimated costs because (i) design standards were raised by the Borrower to
include concrete paved sidewalks and improved drainage; and (ii) substantial landscaping was incorporated
to enhance the environmental impact of the urban center.

For the pedestrian facilities, the cost-benefit evaluates the expected savings deriving from reduction in
accident fatalities as the switching value relative to the cost of works. The switching value on average
(assuming 50 percent reduction in accidents and costs averaged over 20 years facility life, with a discount
rate of 10 percent) is = WST 30,540 per fatality (compared with the Accident Compensation Board guide
of WST 40,000 for statistical compensation of fatalities). This basis understates the full benefits on
account of the substantial positive externalities associated with the drainage improvement and the
environmental enhancement.

                                    Table 3.4: Pedestrian Traffic Schemes

                                                Prior accident rate  Pedestrian
         Location         Cost (WST ,000)       (fatalities/yr)      Traffic       Remarks
                          Est     Actual
         Beach Road      170     938.5          3                    High          Main road within Apia
                                                                                   business district
         Covent Street   120     623.4          5                    High          Parallel to Beach Road,
                                                                                   servicing businesses
                          290    1,561.9        8


4.      Component C, Coastal Infrastructure Risk Management. As the two seawall facilities
appraised for the project were changed and deferred to Phase 2, no re-evaluation is made. Substantial
benefits are expected to accrue from the institutional impact of the introduction of a risk management
strategy (CIMS) and its implementation through Coastal Infrastructure Management Plans (CIM plans, or
the current Sustainable Management Plans), but no attempt has been made to quantify these. There was a
significant reduction in the damage incurred from tropical cyclone Heta in January 2004 which was
attributable to the many coastal risk reduction measures that had been adopted under previous programs.




                                                        - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              9/5/1997                  3    Task Team Leader/Engineer (1)
                                             Sr. Financial Analyst (1)
                                             Transport Economist (1)
              11/30/1997                3    Task Team Leader/Engineer (1);
                                             Country Officer Samoa (1),
                                             Coastal Engineering Specialist
                                             (Consultant) (1).
              05/01/1998                7    Task Team Leader/Engineer (1)
                                             Sr. Economist (1),
                                             Environmental Specialist (1),
                                             Highway Engineer (Consultant)
                                             (1), Coastal Engineering
                                             Specialist (Consultant) (2), Road
                                             Safety Specialist (Consultant) (1)

              07/24/1998                7    Task Team Leader/Engineer (1),
                                             Sr. Economist (1), AusAID Team
                                             Leader (1), AusAID Institutional
                                             Specialist (Consultant) (1),
                                             Environmental Specialist (1),
                                             Highway Engineer (Consultant)
                                             (1), Coastal Engineering
                                             Specialist (Consultant) (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/11/1998                2    Task Team Leader/Engineer
                                             (1), Road Safety Specialist
                                             (Consultant) (1)
              02/23/1999                4    Task Team Leader/Engineer (1),
                                             Counsel (1), Disbursement
                                             Officer (1), Safeguards Specialist
                                             (1).

 Supervision

              06/01/1999                3    Team Leader/Engineer (1),              S               S
                                             Aviation Specialist (1),
                                             Coastal/Environmental (1),
                                             AusAID Engineeer (1).
              12/16/1999                2    Team Leader/Engineer (1);              S               S
                                             AusAID Engineer (1)
              05/20/2000                2    Team Leader/Engineer (1);              S               S
                                             Coastal/Environmental Specialist
                                             (1).
              12/06/2000                4    Team Leader/Engineer (1);              S               S
                                             AusAID Engineer (1),



                                              - 30 -

                                            Coastal/Environmental (1),
                                            Information Technology
                                            Consultant (1)
               06/28/2001              3    Team Leader/Engineer (1);             S    S
                                            AusAID Engineer (1),
                                            Coastal/Environmental (1).
               11/14/2001              2    Team Leader/Engineer (1);             S    HS
                                            Aviation Specialist (1)
               03/11/2002              3    Team Leader/Engineer (1);             S    HS
                                            AusAID Infrastructure (1);
                                            Aviation Specialist (1)
               08/24/2002              2    Team Leader/Engineer (1);             S    HS
                                            AusAID Representative (1)
               02/10/2003              7    Team Leader/Engineer (1); Sr.         S    S
                                            Transprt Economist (1); Sr.
                                            Social Scientist (1); Sr. Financial
                                            Management Specialist (1);
                                            Coastal & Risk Management (1);
                                            AusAID First Secretary (1);
                                            AusAID Project Manager (1)
               06/13/2003              5    Team Leader/Engineer; Asset           S    HS
                                            Management Spec. (1);
                                            Environment & Risk
                                            Management (1); Sr. Social
                                            Scientist (1); AusAID First
                                            Secretary (1)
               03/12/2004              1    Team Leader/Lead Highway              S    HS
                                            Engineer (1)

 ICR
               07/22/2004             1     Transport Engineer                    S    HS
                                            (Consultant) (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               56                             316.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   8.8                              48.9
  Supervision                           32.1                              204.1
  ICR                                     3.1                              48.4
  Total                                100.0                              617.8




                                            - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Coastal Component Terminal Report (May 2003)
2.   Samoa Transport Sector Review - Final Report (June 2003)
3.   Samoa Airport Authority Faleolo International Airport Upgrade 2000 - Component Completion
     Report (February 2004)
4.   Completion Report For the MWTI (ex-PWD) Project Components (July 2004)
5.   Monitoring of Coastal Hazard Zone Stations of Samoa Islands - Final Report (February 2005)
6.   Project Completion Report for PWD Institutional Reform and Asset Management Services
     (Pirams) Project (March 2004)
7.   PWD Institutional Reform and Asset Management Services Road Sector Plan for Samoa
     2002­2012 (March 2003)
8.   IAMP Project Video and Script (May 2003)
9.   Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment Bill Final Report (May 2003)
10.  Road Transport Administration & Safety Project Draft Completion Report (May 2002)
11.  Strategy Reports Supporting the Samoa Airport Authority Business Plan 2001 (May 2002)
12.  Minor Airports Economic, Financial and Policy Study - Incorporating Environmental & Social
     Impact Study - Fagalli, Maota And Asau Airports -Their Role, Use And Costs (2001)
13.  Remote Road Feasibility Report (July 2003)
14.  Alternative Routes WCR (July 2003)
15.  SAA Business Plan November 2001)
16.  D2.01 : ICT Conceptual Framework for Asset Information Management & Sharing (October
     2001)
17.  C1.01 : CIM Strategy Background Reports (October 2001)
18.  RTAS Project - Legislative Review Report (October 2001)
19.  Coastal Hazard Zone Mapping Final Report - Volume I (September 2001)
20.  Coastal Hazard Zone Mapping Final Report - Volume II (September 2001)
21.  DLSE Institutional Review Phase 1 Report - C1.01- Final (July 2001)
22.  Minor Airports Economic, Financial & Policy Study - Fagalii, Maota & Asau Airports - Their
     Role, Use & Costs - Second Edition (June 2001)
23.  Coastal, Environmental & Institutional Services - C1.01 - GIS System Specifications - Final
     version (April 2001)
24.  PWD Institutional Reform & Asset Management Services - IT Needs Assessment (April 2001)
25.  Coastal Hazard Zone Mapping Stage 2 Report (with attached letter) (April 2001)
26.  Letter from DLSE re C1.01 Coastal Infrastructure Management Strategy (English & Samoa)
     (February 2001)
27.  Coastal, Environmental & Institutional Services - C1.01, January 2001 (language - Samoan)
     (February 2001)
28.  Stage I & II Coastal Hazard Mapping Reports (January 2001)
29.  Asset Register (May 2000)
30.  Press Release ­ Samoa Coastal Hazard Zone mapping field work (June 2000)
31.  DLSE: CHZM stage II Report (April 2001)
32.  ICT Conceptual Framework for Asset Information Managemetn and Sharing (October 2001)
33.  CIM Strategy Background Report 1 - Existing Info & Env Review (October 2001)
34.  CIM Strategy Background Report 2 - Conclusion (Consultation) (October 2001)
35.   CIM Strategy Background Report 3 - Review of Project Components (October 2001)
36.  CIM Strategy Background Report 4 - Principles and Assessment (October 2001)
37.  CIM Strategy Background Report 5 - Preliminary Implementation Plan & Program for the


                                              - 34 -

     Strategy (October 2001)
38.  E1.02 Minor Airports Economic, Fin & Policy Study report (2nd Edition) and D5.01 SAA
     Business Strenghtening Study Report (May 2002)
39.  PWD Institutional Reform & Asset Mgmt Services - Final Rd Sector Plan Vol. I & II (March
     2003)
40.  PIRAMS PWD Institutional Reform D1.01 (March 2004)
41.  SAA Component February 2004 (May 2004)
42.  WB Quality Assurance Group 'Quality At Entry' report of IAM-1
43.  Not If But When - Adapting to Natural Hazards in the Pacific Islands Region, Policy Note, World
     Bank, 2006




                                             - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Illustrations


                                               Faleolo
                                               International
                                               Airport
                                               Departure
                                               Concourse




                                               Cultural Artwork in
                                               Airport Passenger
                                               Terminal




                                               Airport Fire and
                                               Rmergency Vehicles
                                               and Building




                                     - 36 -

           Lelata Bridge, Apia




          Convent Street footpaths
          under construction, Apia




           Beach Road footpaths and
           traffic management, Apia




- 37 -

          Consultations with
          Pulenu'u at Solosolo
          village using hazard
          maps and aerial
          photographs




           Aerial photo with
           hazard mapping and
           consultation
           annotations




            Damaged seawall
            at Solosolo village




- 38 -

- 39 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 32860R

                                         172°40'                                                                                                            172°20'                                                                                         172°00'                                                                                       171°40'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SAMOA
                                                                                                                                       Manase          Saleia
                                                                                                                                        Safotu                                                                                                INFRASTRUCTURE ASSET MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                                      Sasina
                                                                                                                                                      Manase

                                                                                                                               Sasina                                                                                                                        Airport                                 Coastal                    Road
    Falealupo                                         Asau
                                                      Airport                                                         Letui                      Vaipouli           Samalaeulu                                                                               Rehab.          Bridges                Protection                  Rehab.
                                Fagasa        'Auala                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Loan Number
                                                       Utuloa
                       Papa        Sataua                                                                                                Ologogo
                                               Asau                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Current Project            CR 3193 WSO

                                                                                            A'opo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Earlier Projects           CR 2132 WSO, CR 951 WSO,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CR 535 WSO, CR 1657 WSO
              Neiafu                                                                                                                                                             Pu'apu'a
                 Falelima
              Falelima                                                                                                                                                                 Asaga
                                                                                                             Mt. Silisili
                                                                                                              1858 m.
                                                                                                                             SAVAI'I                                                                    Saipipi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Unimproved Roads                                                                     Rivers
                                                                                                                                                                                   Vaiola          Faga

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tuasivi                                                     Unpaved Roads                                                                        Selected Towns and Villages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13°40'
13°40'
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Safotulafai
                                                                                                                                                                                   Lalomalava                                                                                 Paved Roads                                                                          National Capital
                                                              Sala'ilua
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Salelavalu
                             Satuiatua & Sala'ilua                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Airports
                                                                                                                                                                     Ma'ota      Salelologa                                                                                   Elevations > 300 meters

                                                                                                                                                Sili                  Airport                                                                                                                                                                                      International Airport
                                                                                                                                       Gautavai                                    Tafuauta

                                                                                                                                                                Satupa'itea
                                                                                                                                      Gataivai
                                                                                         Taga                                                                                        Tafuatai                            ferry

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Fasitoo-uta              Utuali'iSale'imoaLe'auva'aFale'ula Mulinuu    APIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Faleasi'u                    Malie         Vaitele      Lelata
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Apolima                               Fasitoo-uta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Leulumoega                                                                  Moataa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mulifanua                                                                                   Fagali'i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lauli'i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Manono                       Faleolo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Airport    Vaipapa                                                                                     Solosolo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Island                                                                                   Tua'efu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Aleisa                                  Fagali'i Lauli'i                   Saluafata
                                        172°40'                                                                                                                                                                           Manono-uta              Manono-uta                                                                            Airport
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Tanumalala      Lepale                                                                                   Saluafata
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Utumapu               Solosolo           Falefa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mt. Siga'ele
                   N. Mariana Is. (US)                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Falelatai                    867 m.
                                               MARSHALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Afiamalu                                                      Saletele
                 Guam (US)                                                Y        Y
                                                ISLANDS                                                               North Pacific                                                                                                                                                                             Mt. Fiamoe           Mt. Vaito'a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     800 m.                            Falevao       Musumusu
                                                                                                                          Ocean                                                                                                                                                                                    700 m.                     Mt. Fito                                        Fagaloa Bay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Falevao
                                                                           MONDA    SUNDA                                                                                                                                                                   Falease'ela                                                                       1113 m.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Savaia                                                                                                                      Uafato
PALAU                                                                                                                             Palmyra Atoll (US)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sa'anapu-uta                              Tiavi            UPOLU
          FEDERATED STATES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Matautu                                                                                                                               Tiavea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lotofaga-uta              Lotofaga-Uta
           OF MICRONESIA                                                                  Howland(US)                                                                                                                                                                                 Sataoa-tai                                                                      Sopo'aga
                                                                                           Baker (US)                        Jarvis (US)                                                                                                                                Salamumu                                                                                                                                Samusu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Si'umu                                    Fall                                       14°00'
                                                                                                                                                             14°00'                                                                                                                                                                                            Salesatele
                 PAPUA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Saleilua
INDONESIA        NEW                                                                                                  KIRIBATI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lotofaga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sapunaoa
                GUINEA                     SOLOMON                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Salesatele                             Lalomanu
                                             ISLANDS          TUVALU                                        Tokelau (NZ)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lepa            Nuutele I.
                                                                                              SAMOA                                                                                                      SOUTH PACIFIC OCEAN
                                                                    Wallis and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Nuulua
                                       VANUATU                   Futuna Is. (Fr)                                       American
                                                                                                                       Samoa    Cook                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Island
                                                                                          TONGA                        (US)    Islands
                                                                                                                                (NZ)             French
                                         New                                                                                                   Polynesia
                                       Caledonia                      FIJI                                            Niue                        (Fr)
                                          (Fr)                                                                        (NZ)

                                                   Tropic of Capricorn

     AUSTRALIA                         Lord
                                      Howe         Norfolk                      Kermadec
                                      (Aus)         (Aus)                       Is. (NZ)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MILES 0                   5               10

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KILOMETERS 0           4        8      12       16
                                       South Pacific                                                                                                                      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                           Ocean                                               TIONAL         LINE
                                                                     NEW                                          TE                                                      shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                     ZEALAND                                                                                              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                    DA                                                    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                     INTERNA                                                  172°20'                                                                                      172°00'                                                                                        171°40'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FEBRUARY 2006

