-  I iI     Government of Samoa
The World Bank Group                                        E-285
I TtINATI@WAL
Proposed Infrastructure Asset Management Project
Environmental Analysis
Final Report
November 1998
Prepared by                     _    __\ Opus Intemational Consuttants Limited/-
Bruce Geden                              \lTntemational Division
Environmental Project Manager              Level 9, Majestic Centre
100 Willis Street, PO Box 12-343
Wellington, New Zealand
Reviewed by                                                Telephone:   +64 4471 7731
Richard Croad                               Date:         02 November 1998
Project Principal                           Reference:    3WE017.00/800575.62
Status:       Final
0 Opus Intemational Consultants Limited 1998



I



8S  ..........................................................         . 'suoqdo ainj3S,uo.j aUO3J- DOdl 1vso         19
Lg.   '                                  'Ju0w93o,dayf a$pug   c g P
95                                                              .............   yRriwuop n aj u o. qqa?poo          o      Z 9S  t 
.±..... RN3NdP40J NOLLYJXU6VHax Covd   5 V
.s-           **stuawaAoJdw! iounsua.,  -P
.S   '                      '''''''-'sU0Jflhlod IRDU!tDJU   s--
.Ee(oroal D!I safl3lngs UOg3JaJoJJ I0JStDO;   Z-'-r 
£t ........................                              ......................... S OMOZ DRM        OXJM     X kda       t  I
,  ----------- -----------------SSI9HnNLw0 ..................................................................... ............ IZ-
LI'.-.-----------3---Piov------SN3V AgWNVEfS   V'°wSO8-
IV.- *-......... ----.. S'   SID EaHo0  MOLLV  .I  9-£
It'........... .......s1mOlo NV                                                                         N               t-N                 j
1£--X~V *-   --  --                                                            D D      VI     4OXI1A?gO SaGOD   Z£
.lZ .......---.-OJ . ............. . ..DaSa.vanJ4I.H.L   9Z
9z ...,- ....................                                             .......----- * -e  o--- -*---'''' *SwNOLVSUWI  Jl)*Vm NON   4 z
.Z*-- ---- - ------ -                 L9 HVNYV       j 'lVi    NO glA    Nl S.I3WVJ3CJ  °           D NblHO O 3'Iox   £ 
ZZ.3O,I ---.--*-- ---  Ixo.NaNJO'I3A3cJ NV .INRNOIaNoD Z-Zp() 
.-                               -        -~lZL  ' IYM6******sOLELLTWNI.flSMIS II4N AXOInlVS   Z|
61.                                                                                       NzOVO  I D soGod IAII  £-1
L.3OOL3 *-----SS ----         -  ---    ---                                                        1osv)ss Y   IVN3NO~INa  z.I     
91..-----    ------"-------------------------ssmoOM  SISA'1VN   1V1MN2 NOHIN:  1H                                            I
Iz.................................. SMNOIIV1A3un99'V 5O .Z
S1N31NO3 iO 31SV1
°°OWDS ;YdWVI aq4o stzshljm* pvrdzuj lVluawuvoJlau3
tz ............................................. "I .......... 11 .......................................... SgIGUS lN3PMVNVWlVJNM'iMOMMa   V'Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Environmental Impact Analysis of the lAMPfor Samoa
4.6.2   Coastal Protecfion Structure Issues ............................................. 60
4.7 PROJECr ALTERNATnVES .................................. 62
4.7.1 Faleolo Airport ........................                                                                 62
4.7.2   Coastal Protection ........................                                                            63
4.7.3 Road Sector Improvements .........................                                                       63
1            4.8  INEORATioNOFENvIoNmENO           ALssuEs . .............................6.........3................................... .. 63
4.8.1   Airport Improvement Component ...............................                                         63
4.8.2   RoadRehabilitation Component ...............................                                          64
4.8.3   Coastal Infrastructure Management ...............................                                     64
4.9  SuB cooONE   ENVIRONMENTAL AssEssMENr CATEGORIES ...................................... 66
APPENDIX A: REFERENECES/BIBLIOGRAPEY ........ ...........................              .             _ _           68
APPENDIX B: LIST OF PERSONS MET                 .. ..       .      .    .        .......................... . _ . _  . .  . .70
APPENDIX C: SIT VISIT REPORT                                       ...... . . . . .................... 71
1           SITE VISIT REPORT-.. . --------------_----------------_----_-----------_------------.71............. ... ... ... ......... ...71
l1



Environmental Impact Analysis ofthe [AMP for Samoa
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AusAID        Australian Agency for Intemational Development
COEP          Codes of Environmental Practice
CIMP          Coastal Infrastructure Management Plan
CIMS          Coastal Infrastructure Management Strategy
DEC           Division of Environment & Conservation (a division within DLSE)
DLSE          Department of Lands, Surveys and Environment
EA            Environmental Analysis
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP           Environrmental Mitigation Plan
GoS           Government of Samoa
IAMP          Infrastructure Asset Management Project
IAM-1         First phase of the IAMP (years 1-3)
IAM-2         Second phase of the IAMP (years 4-8)
IDA           International Development Association
MAFFM         Ministry of Agriculture, Forests, Fisheries & Meteorology
NEMS          National Environment and Development Management Strategies
NGO           Non-Government Organisation
NZODA         New Zealand Overseas Development Assistance
OD            Operational Directive issued by the World Bank
PEAR          Preliminary Environmental Assessment Report
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PWD           Public Works Department
SAA           Samoa Airport Authority
SPREP         South Pacific Regional Environmental Programme
TCB           Transport Control Board



I
I



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMPfor Samoa
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
BACKGROUND
An environmental analysis (EA) of the issues and mitigating actions regarding the
proposed Infrastructure Asset Management Project (IAMP) was conducted. The project
will be financed for the Govenment of Samoa (GoS) by the Intemational Development
Association (IDA) and AusAID. The EA was one of the project preparation requirements
of the World Bank, as set out in Operational Directive (OD) 4.01 and the primary GoS
environmental legislation, the Lands, Surveys and Environment Act, 1989.
The analysis was undertaken by a combined government and consultant team in July -
August 1998 and finalised, after GoS review and feedback, in November 1998.
The purpose of the study was to:
*   Identify and assess the environmental issues associated with the project;
*   Indicate any adverse environmental impacts of the proposed activities; and to
*   Evaluate the need for further in-depth studies, reviews and environmental
mitigation plans under the project
PROJECT AND PROGRAMME HIGILIGHTS
(a)   Environmental Management The key elements of envirornmental management that
are considered to be important under the project are:
(i)   Application of site specific environmental assessment procedures to each sub-
project
(ii)  The development and application of Codes of Environmental Practice (COEP)
that will set minimum  standards and describe good environmental
management practice for routine design, construction and maintenance
activities.
(iii) Training, education and mentor support to be provided to sub-project
proponents (e.g. PWD and SAA), private sector consultants, contractors and
DLSE to assist them carry out their respective roles in environmental
nmanagement.
(iv)  Recognising that the coastal zone is an environrmentally sensitive area in
Samoa, the project incorporates:
*  the preparation of Coastal Hazard Zone Maps that will identify areas
vulnerable, and the degree of sensitivity, to the effects of coastal storm
hazards; and
*  the  development of  a  Coastal  Infrastructure
Management Strategy  (CIMS)  leading  to  the



Environmental Impact Analysis of ihe IAMP for Samoa
development and application of location specific Coastal Infrastructure
Management Plans (CIMPs) supported by extensive government, public
and village community consultation, and public awareness raising and
education programmes.
(v)   Undertaking sub-project specific monitoring to ensure compliance with any
conditions of consent arising from the environmental assessment procedures,
and more general enviromnental monitoring to develop baseline information
and changes to the baseline in the long term.
(b)  Procedures for the implementation of the EIA process are described later in this
,-                  executive summary and in more detail in section 3.1. The procedures are practicable
and custoninsed to the needs of different types of sub-projects, ranging from those
with no or negligible environmental impacts that will be adequately covered by the
COEP, to those involving significant potential impacts requiring formal EIA
assessment and independent review.
It is recommended that the draft EIA Regulation procedures be adopted for all works
under LAM-1 except that the provisions relating to the Envirornment Board,
Ministerial consents and Penalties should not apply. For the purposes of the project,
it is recommended that Ministerial Consents under the draft EIA Regulations be
issued by the Director DLSE, and that matters intended to be handled by the
Environment Board, and top level enforcement of the regulations, be handled by the
IAMP Steering Committee.
Recognising that DLSE and proponents such as PWD will need time to develop the
skills and resources necessary to effectively meet the EIA requirements, it is
recommended that
(i)   DLSE and all government sector proponents (e.g. PWD, SAA) will meet the
full requirements of the draft ELA Regulations (except as noted above) for all
works under the project by the end of the second year of IAM-1;
(ii)   DLSE and all government sector proponents involved will meet the full
requirements of the draft EIA Regulations (except as noted above) for all
works under their respective departmental budgets by the end of the third
year of IAM-1;
(iii)  Fulfilment of (i) and (ii) above be conditions for the continuation of the works
under IAM-2.
(c)  Codes of Environmental Practice (COEP): In order to improve the environmental
management of all publicly-financed works, in the planning, design and
irnplementation stages, a set of codes of good practice (COEP) for civil works and
services is being introduced during project preparation. Since the environmental
category rating of B depends on these standard operating procedures being in place
for the Project works, the COEP should be introduced and
implemented before the first phase works begin - thus the



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
introduction of the COEP should be made a condition of effectiveness.
The CEOP needs to be consistent with the draft EIA Regulations. The COEP need to
be presented in a manner that is not too prescriptive so that professional judgement
can be applied to site specific situations.
(d)  Specific Sub-project EIA: The COEP is the general basis for identifying, designing
and constructing developments within certain terrain's or environmental settings,
and regarding specific activities.  Some works will require an Environmental
Mitigation Plan (EMP) to take cognisance of the particular values or sensitivities of
the setting in which the works are proposed where these are not adequately covered
by the COEP. The preparation of such plans is the responsibility of the proponent
for each component of work should be an integral part of the normal design process.
The effectiveness of any environmental impact mitigation measures will be
independently evaluated and tested in accordance with the draft EIA Regulation
procedures.
(e)  Coastal Infrastructure Management Strategy (CIMS): Developed and implemented
under the Project, the CIMS will include appropriate procedures for preservation of
environmental assets, integrated and environmentally sustainable planning and
management of infrastructure assets, and procedures for consultation and local
participation, .all embedded in an appropriate institutional framework The
development and implementation of the CIMS and associated Coastal Infrastructure
Management Plans (CIMPs) will be supported by public and village sector
consultation, education and awareness raising.
(f)  Knowledge Base: The accessibility of environmental information will be enhanced
through the installation of an GIS-based information system. Coastal Hazard Zone
surveys will be completed covering the entire coastline. These surveys will be
supported with aerial photography, preparation of up-to-date topographical maps
also available in GIS form that can be adapted to a variety of uses by a number of
government departments. Guidelines will be prepared on good practice for the
selection, design and construction of coastal defence (hard and soft), as well as a
summary of EIA procedures, use of the COEP, economic evaluation and other
procedures. These guidelines will refer to, and sit along side, other internationally
recognised or locally established good practice manuals (e.g. "Envirornental Impact
Assessment in Samoa: A Practice Guide for DEC Officers"). Implementation of the
guidelines will be supported by training and information seminars delivered to
project staff, private sector consultants and contractors.



Enirnmntl mpctAnalysis ofte APf(            r amo
BASELINE                 POTENTIAL    MITIGATION                      BENEFITS
CONDMONS                    IMPACTS              MEASURES               (of the IAMP
(of the lAMP                                 proposals)
:______________            _       proposals)                       _                           I
Road Sub-setor    IAM-1 ProLject Component       Potential re-routing to   Advising the public    Improved consistency
Works                                            traffic during        before & during       of 'speed
One way bridges with no       construction periods.   construction periods    environments' madng
pedestrian facilities welt-                         of likely delays,     for easier driving
trafficked, populated areas.  Potential dust and/or   alternative routes.  conditions.
mud problems during
Temporary bridge crossings.   construction periods.   Maintenance of access  Lower accident rates,
to residence and      hence less injuries,
IAM-2 Project Components      Will change the       commercial            deaths and vehide
relationship between    properties.         damage.
• Some main roads with       the remote villages &
congestion & a high accident    the rest of the country   Implementation of  Improved access to
rate considering traffic flows.   by reducing isolation.  traffic calming  remote areas.
measures to decrease
* Traffic delays leading to   Land acquisition     speeds through         Inproved value and
potentially dangerous       under IAM-2.          villages, such as     functionality in road
manoeuvres.                                       narrowed road widths  assets.
or speed humrps.
* Extension of road around
Upolo.                                            Adoption of COEP.
* Unsealed roads or tracks                         Formal consultation
making village access difficulL                   and land acquisition
procedures.
Coastal           Potential susceptibility of   Potential to inhibit  Adoption of rigorous   Access to beaches may
Infrastructure    infrastructure (especially roads)   groundwater flows  design approaches,  be limited thus
Improvements      to future storm damage.        through to the coast.   consideration of   reducing sand mining
alterative, explict    practices.
Drainage outlets to the coast  Access to the shore  consideration of
often damaged, blocked or     maybe limited or      envirotmental         Enhanced protection to
inadequate capacity.          curtailed.            impacts & mitigation   infrastructure & land
measures, & high      areas from cyclone-
Utilisation of foreshore edge by    Possible modification   standards of  induced sea action.
activities (such as buildings)  of lagoon ecosystems.   construction.
where the risks of damage or                                              Sustainable
complete loss from cydone wave  Need for off-site   Coastal protection    management &
action are high.              acquisition of rocks &    methods and design    'development' of the
other construction   undertaken m           coastline, especially
Prevalent mining of beach sand,   materials.        consultation with the   where it is presently
often unauthorised.                                 village concerned.    susceptible to damage.
Many informally constructed                         Making the Village    Development fits in
coastal protection works                            Council aware of the    with stxategic goals
designed and constructed to an                      role & sensitivity of    e.g. values placed on
inadequate standard.                                the coastal miargin,  aesthetics which
should enhance
Use of 'local' materials  tourism.
where they are
available from a      Lower real risks from
suitable source - also   cyclones dam-age to the
saves on transport    community & the
t                                              _                ~~~~~     ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~costs.  economy.
I
I



Environmental Impact Analysis ofthe lAMPfor Samoa
*   PWD Institutional Strengthening
* PWD Asset Management
*   Transport Control Board
*   DLSE Institutional Strengthening
*   SAA Business Improvements.
ENVIRONMENTAL DESCRIPTION
The World Bank's Terms of Reference for this Environmental Analysis assigned the IAM
first project with a preliminary rating of Category B. This category has been confirmed as
a result of the observations and the analysis that has been made. The following table
summarises the key features of the four main IAM  project components as they relate to the
current situation and anticipated effects of the proposals. This table refers to specific sub-
projects and possible projects for IAM-1, and potential sub-projects for IAM-2, for which
the details are not yet finalised. It covers the range of projects that will be in IAM-1 and
probably in IAM-2.
BASELINE                POTENTIAL    MITIGATION                       BENEFITS
CONDMIONS                  IMPACTS                EASURES              (of the IAMP
(of the LAMP                                 proposals)
Lpropo   L_
Airport (Faleolo)    Outdated interior for an   Inconvenience to      Careful programming   Provides the country
Impnvements       international terminal.       travellers & staff    of runway & taxi way   with a more
during terminal      resurfacing            favourable 'gateway'
Runway 300 metres short of full  refitting.         operations,          for international
international requirements.                                               visitors, especially the
Additional vigilance    Adherence to proper   tourists and airport
Existing runway requires      required by air traffic   procedures regarding   visitors.
resurfacing.                  control during        the use & transfer of
resurfacing operations.  resurfacing materials   Improves the safety
Substandard drainage of the                         so spillages are      and operational
airport grassed areas.        Spillages from        avoided,              functioning of the
resurfacing materials                       airport.
Some coastal margins potentially  resulting in pollution    Advice to airport
susceptible to structural failure,   of groundwater & the   visitors indicatng the   The lengthened
lagoon ecosystern     nature & final        runway wiU allow
outcome of the        long distance aircraft
upgrading process.    to use the airport.
I1



Environmental Impact Analysis of the lAMPfor Samoa
PROJECT COMPONENTS
The project is tentatively proposed to operate over two separate phases, spanning a total of
about 8 years, the first 3-year phase (IAM-1) commencing in 1999. The project components
are:
(a)   Airport Improvements: Upgrade the safety, reliability and operational efficiency of
Faleolo International Airport through rehabilitation (resurfacing) and extension of
the runway taxi way and apron pavements, improvement of terminal facilities,
procurement of operational equipment;
(b)   Road Sub-sector Priority Programme:  Comprising replacement of inadequate
bridges, periodic road maintenance, road safety and pedestrian facilities, with
expanded private sector participation;
(c)   Coastal Infrastructure Managementt  Comprising the development of a coastal
infrastructure strategy for the protection of economic assets, activities and the
associated environmental systems in identified hazard zones, through hazard
assessment, drainage, protective works and planting, and a review of community
responsibilities and financing options, and construction of protective civil works in
selected areas;
(d)   Institutional Strengthening: Implementing reforms in PWD to improve business
practices and to achieve transition to a role of manager rather than provider of
infrastructure, institutional review of DLSE, improvement of road vehicle and
traffic administration, and strengthening of the private sector, improved business
practices of SAA, and implementation of a road safety action plan.  More
specifically, the first 3 year phase, LAM-1 project components are:
i)    Airport Infrastructure
* Runway, Apron and Ancillary
-  Terminal and Control Facilities
- Emergency Equipment
- Engineering Services
ii)    Road Infrastructure Provision
* Bridge replacement
* Road Preservation and Development
* Safety and Pedestrian
* Engineering Services
iii)   Coastal Infrastructure Provision
* Protective Works
* Aerial survey, topographical mapping and other GIS products
*  Coastal Hazard Zone Mapping
* Coastal Management Strategy and Plans
iv)   Institutional Development



Environmental Impact Analysis of the lAMPfor Samoa
BASELINE                 POTENTIAL    MIllGATION                      BENEFITS
CONDMONS                    IMPAC`TS             MEASURES               (of the LAMP
(of the lAMP                                 proposals)
proposals)
Institutional     Problems retaining experienced,   Possible loss of current  Potential transfer of    Some risks transferred
Strenthening      qualified staff.              employment positions,  some existing staff  from GaS to the
especially manual     along with their      private sector.
Inadequate legislative        workers.              experience and
framework to support planning                       knowledge to the      Performance based
& environmental controls.     Loss of experience and   private sector.    outputs where value
lack of direct access to                    for expenditure can be
Work programmes often         equipment that the    Achieving maximum    more readily assessed.
governed by local interests   GoS can call on,     'buy-in' from staff &
outside of a rigorous planning  especially at short  mnanagement why      The adoption of more
and budgeting framework.      notke during          changes are necessary,  rigorous design & ElAs
emergencies.          explanation of        leading to more
Inadequate cyde from design to                      available options &   sustainable approach
implementation, omitting      Change of emphasis    maximise lead times    towards development.
consideration of alternatives,  and thinking from   for changes.
economic justification & EIA.  local 'ownership' of                       Adoption of a national
the environment to    Development of a      perspective on the
Lack of emphasis on ongoing   one of national      robust statutory       environment that is
asset mnanagement             consistency and       framework to ensure    not dominated by local
priorities.           changes can be        interests.
Low utilisation of private sector                   implemented
construction & consulting     A period of possible    effectively.
resources.                    uncertainty during
transitional perods.
ENVIONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Environmental assessment of sub-projects is proposed to be undertaken in accordance
witth the procedures set out in the draft EIA Regulations. These regulations have been
developed as an output from the Cabinet approved National Enviromnent and
Development Management Strategies (NEMS), but have not yet been officially endorsed.
The environmental assessment procedures, compnsing a cascaded screening of potential
impacts, are summarised in the figure below. Three types of sub-project are visualised for
the purposes of environmental assessment, each requiring a different level of
investigation, reporting and independent review reflecting the significance of the potential
impacts, as follows:
(a)     Sub-projects that have no, or low, adverse environmental imnpacts may be waived
from the further requirements of the draft EIA RegulatiLons. Ordinarily the COEP
will be adequate to cover the environmental management requirements on such
projects.
(b)     All other  sub-projects  will be  subject to  enviroinmental  assessment.    This
commences with a Preliminary Environmental Assessment Report (PEAR) that is
prepared by the proponent  The project may proceed if, after review, the Director
DLSE concludes there are will be no significant adverse
environmental impacts.



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMPfor Samoa
(c)   Projects for which there are potential significant adverse environmental impacts will
be subject to a full EIA process. The EIA, prepared by the proponent, must
consider alternatives and mitigation measures. The EIA is reviewed by DEC.
Affected communities must be consulted and there may be formal public meetings.
DEC may request further information and, if approving the works to proceed, may
set special conditions that must be met by the proponent.
These procedures are presented diagrammatically in the following figure.
1



Environmental Impact Analysis Of the [AMP for Samoa
)                            ~~~~~~~~~~Long Range Proposed Works PlanJ
Annual Proposed Works Plan & Rough Order Budgeting
1                                        Preliminary Design & Drawings
Sub-projects that have no, or
low but acceptable,
environmental impacts
DEC grants a            Prepare Preliminary Environmental Assessment
Waiver from further                      Report (PEAR).
EIA requirements?
X                          r          -  ~~~~~~~~~~DEC Reviews PEARl
Sub-projects that have
significant potential
envirorunent impacts
I                                                                            I
vDLSE gves app[val?        Prepare detailed EIA report
I       Public Consultation
l1|  Public Heanng/DLSE Review
DLSE gives approval?
If approved, works       If approved, works      If approved, works proceed under
proceed under provisions   proceed under COEP        COEP provisions, some special
of COEP with minor      provisions, some special  conditions or design modifications
compliance monitoring     conditions may apply        may be required to mitigate
with compliance        environmental effects. Compliance
monitoring                monitorine required.



Environmental Impact Analysis of the LAMPfor Samoa
The draft EIA Regulations require proponents to consult with and keep informred any local
communities affected by the sub-projects. The draft EIA Regulations emphasis early
communication between the proponent and DEC to ensure that procedures are
streamlined. The Regulations also require DEC to prepare and publish guidelines on EIA
procedures to proponents.
Because the draft EIA Regulations are not yet enacted by Cabinet, a number of features in
the Regulations cannot realistically be adopted (e.g. Ministerial approvals, functions of the
Environrment Board, and application of penalties). For the purposes of the IAM Project,
suitable alternative delegations for these aspects have been suggested that keep the actions
within the IAMP team.
The following table summarises the major project components that have environmental
implications and assigns category ratings consistent with Operational Directive 4.01.
PROJECT COMPONENT & SUB-   KEY ENVIRONMENTAL                                    ENVIRONMENTAL
COMPONENTS                                ISSUES                  CATEGORY OF PROJECT
SUB-COMPONENT
Airport (Faleolo) Improvements
Runway Improvements (IAM-1)                Potential nsks  associated  with                  B
bitumen operations
Coastal Protection Structures (IAM-1)       Lagoon ecology values/food supply                B
resource
Drainage Works (IAM-1)                      Contamination of freshwater aquifer              B
and conduits to lagoon
Terminal Improvements (lAM-1)               Minimal apart from  good work                    C
l                                                         practices
Road SectorWoics
New Road Construction (IAM-2)               Broad range of potentially sensitive           Aor B
issues such as ecological, social,
hydrological, visual & agricultural
Road Upgrading or Minor Widening (IAM-2)    Property frontage acquisitions                   B
Road Rehabilitation and Periodic Maintenance  Operating procedures                           B
j        ~~~~(IAM-1)
Bridge Replacements (lAM-1)                 River/stream values and road access              B
alternatives
Coastal Infrastructure (LAM-I, IAM-2) (s    Recreational, visual, access and         B (majority of works)
Note 1)                                     lagoon ecological values
C (very minor works).
Note 1: Projects that have a cassification of B in terns of the WorLd Bank Operational Directive 4.01 may still require an ETA
under the draft EIA Regulations. This is likely to be the case for most seawall and coastal defence
systers.



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
MONITORING
Two areas of monitoring will need to be established in support of environmental
management as follows:
(a)   Monitoring on sub-projects to ensure that the scope of works does not differ from the
scope that was approved under the draft EIA Regulations, compliance with any
COEP provisions or conditions of EIA  approval.  In some instances appropriate
baseline environmental information may need to be gathered and submitted with the
EIA. Such preparatory monitoring should be identified in the implementation plan
for the sub-project. This will permit the evaluation of impacts over time compared
with baseline data.
(b)   Critical areas such as the coastal hazard zone should be monitored to identify the
long-term  trends of natural processes and  so quantify changes in the baseline
conditions.
Examples of monitoring activities are presented below:
CAgRtJt:.   ;C   A1TIY> >-. .              PURPOSE        -> -.   x-> ,-:--
DLSE                Compliance Monitoring    Observation to ensure that proponents are meeting conditions required under
the COEP, PEAR or EIA.
DLSE                Aerial Photography     DLSE will use this for CHZ assessment and monitoring long-term changes to
the coastline. PWD will use this for engineenng design.
PWD/DLSE/ SAA       Oblique Photographs    Used by PWD/SAA for monitonng asset condition. Used by DLSE for
evaluating trends and environmental effects over time.
PWD/DLSE            Beach Surveys          Monitoring of beach profile changes. PWD would use this as part of asset
condition monitoring. DLSE would use this for evaluating long-term trends as
part of a CHZ assesment.
PWD/SAA             Condition Surveys of   Development of maintenance programmes for coastal assets and defence
coastal protection systems.  systems.
DLSE                Routine water quality &    Evaluation of water-quality in the lagoons and scientific surveys of
eco systems monitoring    ecosystems. This is seen as a long-term routine activity to be carried out by
DLSE (and MAFFM) independently of the lAMP.
As monitoring at Faleolo airport will primarily focus on the potential discharge of
contaminants from the drainage system to the lagoon, the above list is also relevant to this
component of the project. The main aircraft refuelling apron drains directly onto grass,
not to any form of bunding or interceptor. This issue needs to be considered as part of the
design activity to be incorporated within the TOR for the engineering of the airport
improvements.



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMPfor Samoa
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
The draft EIA regulations clearly set out the steps and who is responsible for each stage of
the environmental assessment process, including the proponent, regulator and oversight
functions, viz:
(a)   Proponents of a sub-project such as PWD, SAA (or a private developer when the
EIA Regulations are passed into law) are responsible for liaising with and informiing
DLSE, preparing all environmental assessment submnission documents, developing
mitigation measures and alternatives, and ensuring affected communities are
consulted and informed. The proponents are also responsible for implementing the
sub-projects within the scope approved under the environmental assessment,
implementing the works within the provisions of the COEP, and meeting any
specific conditions of EA approval.
(b) The Regulator, DLSE, is responsible for independently reviewing an application for
environmental assessment and giving the appropriate approval or not, as the case
may be, or referring the application to a higher stage in the EIA process. DLSE is
generally required to respond to applications within a specified time frame. DLSE
is also responsible for publishing guidelines on activities that are permrissible
without further reference to the Regulations (i.e. the waiver provision under Clause
3C)..
(c)   Oversight to the whole process is provided from the Minister LSE (who has the
ultimate responsibility for EIA approvals) and the Environment Board (who deal
with appeals). Because the EIA Regulations are not yet enacted by Cabinet (under
X                   s.146 of the LSE Act, 1989), and to keep environmental management activities
within the control of the IAMP team whilst under development, it is proposed that
-  *    The Director DLSE will be delegated to carry out the Ministerial approval
functions descrnbed in the draft Regulations;
0 *    The IAMP Steering Committee will be delegated to carry out the
Environment Board functions described in the draft Regulations; and
0 .    No sanctions or penalties will apply (as described in Part VII of the draft
Regulations), but the IAMP Steering Committee will be empowered to take
appropriate remedial action where significant defaults have occurred that
cannot be resolved between the DEC Officers and the proponent.
PWD and SAA will appoint engineering consultants to carry out many of the design and
environmental management activities for sub-projects under IAM-1. However, some
activities may be retained in-house, especially for smaller, or relatively simple works that
can be handled by core staff who have a working knowledge of environmental
management issues and COEP requirements but who are not environmental specialists.
Neither the PWD and SAA as proponents, arid DLSE as regular,
currently have the institutional strength to undertake all aspects of the



Environmental Impact Analysis ofthe lAMPfor Samoa
EIA process as contemplated under the draft Regulations. Nonetheless SAA will be able to
meet most of the requirements through intemational consultants appointed for the Faleolo
Airport development works. It is proposed that proponents under IAM-1 and DLSE
should adopt the provisions of the draft EIA Regulations from the outset recognising that
their ability to meet all its requirements will initially be difficult. It is also proposed that,
under lAM-1, full imnplementation of the EIA Regulations will be achieved by all parties by
the end of the second year. It is recommended that PWD and DLSE enter into an
understanding, perhaps expressed through a Partnering Agreement, committing each to
an increasingly higher level of achievement of the EIA requirements, identifying progress
milestones against an agreed time frame within two years.
A high level of expectation will also be placed on private sector consultants, and on
construction contractors, to implement environmental management practices.  It is
recognised in the project design that proponents, DLSE, consultants and contractors will
require training and support on environmental management practices and procedures.
I        .   This will be provided  during  IAM-1 with  the appointment of a Coastal
Engineering/Environmental Adviser attached to the Project Management Unit (PMU) to
provide inter alia advice and training on environmental management, design, and
practices.
CONSULTATION
Under the draft EIA Regulation proponents are responsible for consultation with, and
keeping informed, all communities affected by each sub-project development
Under Part V of the draft EIA Regulation the Director DLSE is responsible for arranging a
public meeting for the purpose of facilitating public involvement in the EIA process for
those sub-projects that are deemed to potentially have significant adverse environmental
impacts.
Proponents will need to ensure that the TOR for the appointment of consultants
incorporates the design and implementation of a public consultation process.
Consultation will need to take account the unique protocols of Samoan society.
Consultation with Village Fonos will generally need to be done through the services of a
;             Talking Chief and will involve ceremony and the exchanging of gifts. The Ministry of
Internal Affairs will also have a role to play in this process, especially in their relationship
with the Pulenu'u representing the Village and through whom consultations may
cormmence.
Apart from keeping communities informed on the nature and consequences of proposed
developments, activities such as arranging access for works, survey and monitoring will
also require village consultation. The aerial survey work to be mnanaged by DLSE will be
relatively unobtrusive on local communities and will involve village consultation only for
the purpose of clearing and re-marking the geodetic ground control survey benchmarks.
The development of a CIMS and CIMPs, to be undertaken by DLSE, will
involve extensive village consultation in up to tiree districts as part of



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMPfor Samoa
IAM-1. Consultation protocols is a major element of the design of these activities. These
sub-projects will also involve public education and awareness raising that will be
implemented through public meetings, the distribution of pamphlets and booklets, and
advertising through the newspaper, radio and television.
A framework for consultation with stakeholder, including village communities, is set out
in the parallel social assessment study by OYMeara (1998). A significant amount of lead
time will be required for such consultation for project planning as well as environmental
assessment purposes.
I
I
I
I



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
I 1 THE ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS PROCESS
This report presents an analysis of the environmental issues and mitigating actions of the
proposed 'Infrastructure Asset Management Project' (IAMP) to be financed for the
Govemment of Samoa (GoS) by the Intemational Development Association (IDA) and
AusAID. The Environmental Analysis (EA) was conducted as one of the project
preparation requirements of the World Bank, as set out in Operational Directive (OD) 4.01.
1.1   Scope of the Analysis
The principal role of the'analysis is to identify the main issues associated with the project's
implementation, monitoring and evaluation processes, and to identify the project's main
|             components.
The scope of the analysis is neither a Preliminary Environmental Assessment Report
(PEAR), nor an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), but instead a study to identify
and assess the environmental issues associated with the proposed IAMP. This analysis
also does not include a social assessment and consultation study as this is being conducted
as a separate exercise (ie. O'Meara, 1998).
The objective of the TAMP is to achieve sustainable management of infrastructure assets,
and the various components differ in their rationale, form, scale, sensitivity of the
environmental settings, and pre- and post-construction impacts. These IAMP components
will be implemented over a number of years as they pass through their respective
plannin& design, and implementation phases.
Some of the project components are a response to mitigate the damage due to cyclones in
the future, while others are direct infrastructure improvements. Equally, some of the
components have negligible environmental implications, while others may have
potentially significant effects for individual families or whole communities, or for the
natural environment if the adverse effects are not avoided or mitigated.
|             In summary, the Analysis process comprised a preliminary (pre-site visit) desk-top study,
an inspection of the sites between 16 and 24 July 1998, on-site discussions and the
preparation of a site visit report, and a post-visit assessment  The site visit was
I             undertaken in conjunction with a visit by a World Bank pre-appraisal mnission team,
together with AusAID personnel.
I             The Analysis was undertaken by a small team comprising a lead specialist (Environmental
Project Manager) and two supporting specialists, in co-operation and consultation with
I             several GoS officials from the Department of Lands, Survey and Environment (DLSE) and
I             the Public Works Department (PWD), and a representative of a non-governmental
organisation (NGO). The personnel involved are listed in Appendix 1.
In particular, the purpose of the study was to:
|   *  identify and assess the environmental issues associated with the
project;



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMPfor Samoa
j   *  indicate any adverse environmental impacts of the proposed activities; and to
evaluate the need for further in-depth studies, reviews and environmental
mitigation plans under the project.
During the site visit, contact was made with the mission team members in order to become
familiar both with past IDA Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project works, as well as with
proposed institutional reforms in terms of how environmental management processes will
be implemented for this project.
A sunmnary of the site observations and contacts made as part of the proposed IAMP
processing requirements of the GoS and the IDA, has been provided in a preceding report
(Geden, 1998). Visits were made to both the islands of Upolo and Savai'i in order to
become familiar with the nature and scale of the proposed works and the settings in which
they will occur. However, it is recognised that most of the project components are only in
the initial conceptual planning stages.
The overall approach that was adopted was to regard the IAMP as a single project, bearing
in mind that it will comprise a number of diverse components of varying scales, locations
and objectives. The environmental issues associated with the project components were
assessed in terms of the legal, societal, physical and natural setting present in Samoa.
The analysis also took account of the proposals to strengthen the institutional framework
of the Public Works Departrnent (PWD) and the Department of Lands, Survey and the
Environment (DLSE), especially the Division of Environment and Conservation (DEC). In
particular, the Analysis was nindful of PWD's move towards being an asset manager and
a desire to out-source specialist services.  The analysis also took account of the
requirements of World Bank Operational Directive 4.01 and existing environmental and
draft EIA Regulations.
In reality, the LAMP will be a 'testing ground' for many of the environmental screening
and assessment initiatives that are currently being developed, or proposed to be
developed in the near future. This project design therefore needed to be realistic about
financial and staff resource limitations that can be expected to exist for some time.
1.2   Environmental Assessment Categories
Pivotal to the Environmental Analysis process is the scoping (or screening)' of the
proposed project components in accordance with World Bank Guidelines (Operational
Directive 4.01). This initial scoping process is undertaken prior to the Project Concept
Review and determines the nature and extent of the environmental assessment to be
conducted.
I Note the term 'screening' used in the World Bank Guidelines (Operational Directiv
differentiated from the 'screening' of individual projects as part of the PEAR/EI
accordance with the draft EIA Regulations.



Environmental Impact Analysis of the LAMPfor Samoa
Not only is the role of the analysis to identify key environmental issues, but it is also to
assign each of the project components one of three environmental assessment categories.
These categories indicate the nature and extent of environmental work required, namely:
Category A     A full assessment is required where the proposal is likely to have
significant impacts that may be sensitive, irreversible and diverse, and
usually of a broad scale.
Category B     Although a full environmental assessment is not necessary, an
environmental analysis is required for IDA projects that support the
poorest and smallest countries. Few impacts will be irreversible and
remedial measures can be more easily designed than for Category A
projects.2
Category C     No environrmental assessment or environmental analysis is required.
OD 4.01 applies the highest component rating to the entire project, and although
components can be individually assessed, the World Bank's processing is controlled by the
highest rating. The sub-components of the project differ in their nature and in their
geographical setting, so in reality are more appropriately regarded in their own right
The scoping process undertaken for the IAMP has been based principally based on
observations and information gathered from an eight day visit to the islands, also on
available and appropriate literature such as reports, legislation, discussions, guideline
documents and World Bank Aide Memoirs.
Apart from the proposed Tua'efu Bridge replacement, and concept drawings prepared for
the refurbished terminal building at Faleolo Airport, the team was not advised of any
drawings or comprehensive or definitive proposals, plans or design reports for any of the
physical components. However, some of the IAM-1 project components will soon be
approaching this stage.  The exact manner in which most of the 'works' will be
implemented therefore has yet to be determined. Obviously, in most locations (for each of
the project components) there are certain types of works that are likely to ensue, as
determined by the very nature of the work such as a bridge replacement In other places,
the exact nature and/or location of the works has not been determninet at the time of this
Analysis.
2 Note that sub-projects or project components classified as category B under World Bank Operational
Directive 4.01 may still require an Environrmental Impact Assessment under the S
Regulations, 1998, as determined by the Director DLSE in accordance with crite
Regulations.



Environmental Impact Analysis of the lAMPfor Samoa
1.3   IAM Project Components
The IAM project is tentatively proposed to operate over two separate phases spanning a
total of about 8 years, the first 3-year phase commencing in 1999. The first project (IAM-1)
project comprises four principal components, namely:
(a)   Airport Improvements: Civil works and equipment for upgrading the safety,
reliability, capacity and operational efficiency of Faleolo International Airport. This
component includes a new  control tower, possibly integrated with new
accommodation for the new fire tenders, and a second fire tender. Also included is
a rock seawall protection, minor drainage works at the eastern end of the runway,
and recabling of selected sections for airfield lighting have been added to ensure
safe and reliable operation.
(b)   Road System Provision: This component includes annually programmed priority
works for replacement of single-lane bridges.  The road programme scope
encompasses all preservation and development works in the planning and annual
programme preparation, and to finance periodic maintenance and road upgrading
selected in compliance with economic decision criteria. Routine maintenance
would be programmed to required levels but not financed by the project.
Upgrading works would require feasibility study under the project Road safety
and pedestrian works are retained, emphasising adequate focus on area safety
treatments.
(c)   Coastal Infrastructure Management The development of a coastal infrastructure
management strategy, gradual participatory implementation of procedures, and
controlled implementation of coastal protection works. The procurement of a full
aerial survey, ground surveys and various map products is also included.
(d)   Institutional Strengthening: Four agencies are included, ie. i) PWD - for
institutional restructuring, private sector development, road planning and
|                     programming and asset management implementation; ii) DLSE - institutional
review of DLSE and design of initial reforms; iii) Transport Control Board (TCB) -
improvement of road safety, road traffic administration and cost recovery in MOT
I                     and Police Dept; and iv) Samoa Airport Authority (SAA) - business process
improvements.
Based on the work of previous missions, the major environmental issues in IAM-1 have
been identified as those associated with the development of a strategy for the coastal zone.
This strategy is aimed at preserving natural coastal processes to the greatest extent
possible, and to control or limit damaging activities such as inappropriate land use, sand
mining, blockage of drainage and flood systems, and inappropriate structures. In
addition, there are issues of drainage, erosion and poor excavation practices associated
with the airport extension, resurfacing and road maintenance.
In the second project, IAM-2, the emphasis on the coastal strategy will continue, and the
road component is likely to include a moderate programme of road
development. That is likely to include upgrading or new construction    ; i



Environmental Impact Analysis ofthe IAMP for Samoa
on existing earth or gravel roads and tracks in three or four areas, and localised
realignment and widening of the West Coast Road (Apia - Faleolo) to improve capacity
and safety. The preparation of feasibility and EIA studies and land acquisition plans for
this programme is expected to occur under IAM-1.
1-
1
I






Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
2     STATUTORY AND INSTITUTIONAL SETTING
The institutional and statutory settings for environmental management in Samoa are still
in their formative stages, and further strengthening of these will need to be integrated with
the physical application of environmental management under the Project. While there has
been some development of the policy and tools for environmental management, there
have been only preliminary steps taken in regard to the institutional framework, and
currently GoS's capacity for implementing the policies is thin. The following briefly
reviews the provisions relevant to the IAMP.
2.1   Legislation
Peteru (1993) has identified some 65 Acts and regulations that are broadly relevant to
environmental management in Samoa. Only a few are of direct relevance to the
implementation of the proposed Infrastructure Asset Management Project as follows.
The primary legislation under which DISE operates is the Lands, Surveys & Environment
Act 1989, the Taking of Land Act 1964, and Survey Ordinance 1961. The powers of DLSE
under the Taking of Land Act are very limited when customary land is concerned. The
Survey Ordinance relates to the approval and recording of subdivided land. It also
I              provides for the setting aside of a 10 metre strip of land along the coast as public reserve,
but this does not apply to customary land. A little over 80% of land in Samoa is customary
land.
Section 116 of the Lands, Surveys & Environment Act 1989 includes provision for the
preparation of Management Plans "... for the protection, conseroation, management, and
I              control of ..." matters such as Samoan waters and water resources, coastal zones, soil
erosion and pollution. It would be an offence to contravene any provision of a
management plan. Cosely linked with hius concept, in respect of Coastal Zones, is the
need to obtain consent from the Minister of the Environment for the removal of materials
from the foreshore or the erection of structures in this area.
The first Management Plan has been prepared for Palolo Deep (a marine reserve area in
Apia). Also "management plans" are currently being developed for the establishment of
Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) in Aleipata and Safata on the south-east coast of Upolu
under an IUCN grant with assistance from the World Bank and SPREP with DLSE as the
GoS implementing agency. These MPAs are being implemented -m consultation with, and
the co-operation of, the local village communities. These MPAs will be enforced on a
voluntary basis, but are not expected to be imnplemented officially under the provisions of
Section 116 of the LSE Act for some time. Marine reserves have been developed in a
number of villages under an AusAID project "Fisheries Extension and Training"
implemented through the Fisheries Division of MAFFM. Again, these reserves have been
implemented on a voluntary compliance basis, which is considered to be very effective but
time consuming, involving considerable community consultation, education and
awareness raising, and no attempt has been made to invoke the provisions of Section 116
of the LSE Act.



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
New legislation presently in draft form and which could have potential implications for
the IAMP includes:
Lands, Surveys and Environment (Environment Impact Assessment) Regulations
1998 (Draft); and
*     Environment and Conservation Bill 1998 (Draft).
The EIA Regulations will draw their authority from Section 146 of the LSE Act once
approved by the Head of State acting on the advice of Cabinet The draft EIA Regulations
set out the basic process for environmental impact assessment in Samoa. This process will
involve a mandatory environmental screening and assessment procedure for all
developments with a Preliminary Environmental Assessment Report (PEAR) and, where
required, this may be followed by a full Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).
The draft Environment and Conservation Bill is the second piece of legislation being
prepared. Its objectives are to protect, conserve and enhance the quality of the
environment of Samoa having regard to the need to achieve sustainable development, to
establish an effective administrative structure and to make provision for the development,
admninistration and enforcement of effective legislation for environmental matters. The Bill
proposes that the DEC, which is presently part of DLSE, be set up as a separate, stand-
i            alone authority. However, this is one of several possible structures and currently the Bill
does not have any standing with GoS, other than as a concept proposaL
It is notable that the provisions of the Lands, Surveys and Environment Act prevail over
all other legislation where there are inconsistencies with other legislation. Likewise, the
provisions of the draft Environmental and Conservation Act will apply if they are
inconsistent with the provisions of any other law.
The type of inconsistency that may arise can be seen in the definition of the term
'environment. All three documents (the Lands, Surveys and Environment Act 1989; the
draft Environment Impact Regulation 1998 and the Environment and Conservation Bill)
define this, and other key terms, such as 'EIA' and 'pollutant', differently.
2.2   Government Environment and Development Policy
The key documents that define GoS strategic direction for national development are the
Seventh Development Plan DP7 (1992) and the National Envirorunent and Development
Management Strategies (NEMS) (1994). DP7 and the NEMS have been endorsed by
Cabinet.
EIAs are required for significant developments under Development Plan DP7 (1992).
The NEMS specifically supports the adoption of EIA regulations and an EA process. The
NEMS document states that a higher standard of living will be achieved through the
public being made aware of environmental issues, by politicians providing sound
envirorunment and development activity policies, and by promotng sustainable
development actions. Central to this is the avoidance of degradation of
the natural environment, the maintenance of Samoan cultural heritage,



Environmental Impact Analysis of the lAMP for Samoa
and care for the health and safety of the population.
A third document, the Westem Samoa Tourism Development Plan 1992-2001 (GoS, 1992),
although it does not appear to have the same official standing as the above mentioned
documents, also promotes the concept that ElAs should be carried out for all major
tourism development. It is interesting to note that private developers in Fiji, especially
relating to Tourist development projects, have led the way in commissioning and
following the recommendations of environmental impact assessments as mitigation of
adverse enviromnental impacts is sensible to mitigate investment risks (pers comm. T.
Tutangata, Director SPREP, 1998)
2.3   Role of Government Departments in Environmental Management
The principal environmental management agency in Samoa is the Division of Environment
and Conservation (DEC) in the Department of Lands, Surveys and Environment. Part VIII
of the LSE Act, 1989, deals with Environment and Conservation issues, however, many of
the provisions of this Part of the Legislation are not implemented. Only one formal
Management Plan exists, for Palolo Deep, as discussed above. The Environment Board
which has a watchdog and mediation role has not been convened. Penalties are not
imposed or enforced through the courts (Peteru, 1993). The key activity of DEC currently
is in public education and awareness raising, and liaison and co-ordination with other
Government Departments who carry out environment and conservation functions (e.g.
the Fisheries and Forests Divisions of MAFF;M).  DEC is also responsible for the
implementation of foreign donor funded projects that will help achieve its aims (e.g. the
NZODA EIA Guidelines project and the IUCN Marine Protected Areas project - see
Section 2.4).
DEC has been involved in the preparation of several environmental impact assessments
and in giving environmental advice to a number of proponents. However, resources have
been a significant restraint and DEC has been reluctant to become too closely involved in
carrying out EIAs on behalf of proponents when it is also required to act as reviewer and
regulator.
The Lands Board convened under the Act is responsible for, and active in, the
management of Government Lands, and can control activities such as reclamations and
sand mining. However, given that less than 20% of Land in Samoa is not Customary Land
(i.e. is Government or Freehold land), the influence of the Lands Board is limited in the
context of overall infrastructure development, especially around the coastline.
In approvng land sub-divisions and scheme plans under the Survey Ordinance 1961,
DLSE do not currently exercise any control or oversight into environmental or related
town planning issues.
The Department of Public Works (PWD) is involved in building permit approvals and, in
principle, is also responsible for approving drainage plans, but is rarely given the
opportunity to review proposals or to exercise any controL To-date, PWD has not had any
significant involvement in carrying out EIA as proponent for
development, although some environmental management inputs have



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
been attempted for the Saleleloga township development in Savai'i.
2.4    Environmental Management Studies
A  number of projects have been  carried out in Samoa linked  to environmental
management that have influenced the design of the IAMP. The key projects are:
DONOR           ACTIVrTY                              TIMEFRAMEff    IhMPLMENING
1ONOR                                                 .               AGENCY
AusAID          Fisheries Extension and Training training in  1995-22001  Fisheries Division of
extension and improved fishing techniques for         MAFFM
sustainable local supply and small scale export
induding community based fish reserves and
enhanced offshore effort.
IUCN            Establishment of piot marine protected areas  1997-1999  Environment &
(MPAs) in Aleipata and Safata on the south-east       Consrvation Division
coast of Upolu.                                       of DLSE
NZODA           Capacity building for environmental management  1989- On-going   Environment &
projects                                              Conservation Division
of DLSE
ADB             Treasury Institutional Strengthening Project  1987-1998  Treasury Department
The Fisheries Extension and Training and MPA projects involve extensive community
consultation and negotiation to establish marine reserve areas and constraints in carrying
out activities such as sand mining, coral extraction etc. The approach being adopted under
these projects is considered to be most effective in the long term because once negotiated,
the initiatives are supported and enforced by the Village Fonos.
The on-going Environmental Management studies supported by NZODA have included
refinement of the draft EIA Regulations originally prepared in 1993 and the preparation of
a practice guide for DEC Officers for EIA in Samoa (Morgan, 1998). This practice guide is
viewed as a definitive document by DEC and is fully integrated with the procedures
proposed under the draft EIA Regulations. The guidelines include a section on public
consultation. The public consultation approaches outlined will be suitable to meet the
public hearing and keeping affected conmmunities informed provisions of the draft EIA
Regulations. However, the guidelines do not address the very specific role of the Ministry
of Internal Affairs (MIA), the Pulenu'u and the dialogue with the Village Fono that would
ordinarily be commenced through a Talking Chief representative of the proponent.
A  'Manual on Project Planning and Programming' has recently been prepared by
Treasury and issued in April 1998 under an ADB  funded  Treasury Institutional
Strengthening Project. This manual includes an extensive section on EIA procedures that
are required for all physical works projects (above a value of WST100,000) submitted for
approval by the Cabinet Development ComnIittee. The manual includes a pro-forma
Terms of Reference for a Full Scale Environmental Assessment. The EIA
procedures are similar to the those proposed in the draft EIA Regulation



Environmental Impact Analysis ofthe IAMPfor Samoa
except that some of the approvals are different (apparently the Treasury EIA procedures
were developed independently, and without knowledge of, the draft EIA Regulations). It
is also assumed in the Treasury Manual that EIAs will be carried out by DLSE. However,
it is noted that this is contrary to what is visualised under the draft EIA Regulations where
DLSE act as reviewers and would be in conflict with DLSE's role as a regulator.
Most Government Departments and Ministries have been introduced to the requirements
of the Treasury Manual on Project Planning and Prograrmming although its requirements
are certainly not yet incorporated in the culture of, or necessarily fully accepted by, these
departments. Other organisations, such as the Samoa Water Authority, the Airport
Authority and the Electric Power Corporation, will receive presentations on the manual
towards the end of 1998.
2.5  Institutional Studies
A two-phase institutional review of the PWD has been conducted that looked at its
existing functions, and developed strategies and implementation plans for the PWD's
emerging role as an asset manager. This institutional review focused on the restructuring
on PWD and did not consider specifically consider environmental management.
Several institutional reviews have been carried out of DEC which have considered
different structures for DEC. These reviews are reported in PA Management Consultants
(1985), KRTA (1988, Part 5), Green (1990) and Harding (1992). The last report contains a
draft bill entitled "Environment and Conservation Act, 199X" that envisages the DEC
operating as an independent Authority, similar to the Visitors Bureau (see also Section
2.1). No institutional reviews have been carried out for DLSE as a whole.
2.6   The Private Sector
To-date, private sector consultants and contractors have not had any significant
involvement in environmental management through the preparation of envirormental
impact assessments, the development of environmental mitigation plans, introduction of
mitigation options in designs, nor the application of environmental management in
construction. There is support for the introduction of environmental management
procedures amongst the few engineering consultants spoken to, but it is generally agreed
that the engineering consulting and contracting industries will need some form of
institutional support on its introduction. Some firms would associate with international
consultants to obtain the necessary expertise.
2.7   Non-Government Organisations
There are two primary environmental NGOCs in Samoa. Discussions were held with one
of these. During discussions with one NGO, the Fa'asao Savai'i Society (an indigenous
conservation organisation), their President, Ms Moelagi Jackson, commented on
opportunities for the IAMP in this way:
There is an  ongoing  awareness by  Samoans  of their
responsibilities towards the environment as evidenced by the



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
lessened volumes of rubbish of the beaches compared with 20 years ago. However,
Ms Jackson felt there is still a long way to go despite the improvements that she has
witnessed;
*     Any approach to a village council should be a joint one between the NGO and
government in order that the appropriate avenue is taken when initiating
discussions regarding a proposal;
|   *  Workshops are an extremely useful means of getting information across and being
able to discuss mrtters rationally;
|            *     Many of the environmental issues experienced in Samoa are strongly linked to the
inadequate resourcing of government departments, and more especially, to the
implementation of NEMS; and
*     When consulting or getting "buy in" for a project with a village, it is generally
unnecessary (and inappropriate) to set up new structures (such as a committee).
l11



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
3     ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT UNDER THE PROJECT
One of the issues that still seems to exists, as identified by Peteru in 1993, is that 'There is a
substantial body of existing environmental legislation which is ineffective for the reason that it is
unenforced." Possible reasons for this are many and potentially relate to the core structure
of Samoan society, such as customary rights which vest strong autonomy in the village
fono including power over customary land. Also the Land Board does not appear to
exercise all the powers and authority that it has under the legislation.  Issues of
departmental resourcing and clarification of roles are also likely to be significant
contributors to these problems.
The proposed project is an opportunity for the GoS to lead by example by conducting
transparent EIA and environmental management processes for developments that it
implements itself which involves effective consultation with affected group and key
stakeholders and provides adequate opportunity for consideration of alternatives.
Informing and educating stakeholders, including village Jfnos, to develop and
understanding and ownership of the issues is the only way likely to be effective. Without
first having gained acceptance of the need for, and importance of, the principals of
environmental management as it affects specific districts and villages, the implementation
and enforcement of national legislation 'is likely to lead to continuing conflicts over
authority.
3.1   Environmental Assessment Procedures
It is proposed that environmental assessment of project components be undertaken in
accordance with the procedures set out in the draft EIA Regulations 1998.
The environmental assessment procedures, comprising a cascaded screening of potential
impacts, are summarised in Figure 1. Sub-projects would be screened into one of three
categories for the purposes of environmental assessment, each requiring a different level of
investigation, reporting and independent review reflecting the significance of the potential
impacts, as follows:
a)    Sub-projects that have no, or low, adverse environmental impacts may be waived
from the further requirements of the draft EIA Regulations. Ordinarily the COEP
will be adequate to cover the environmental management requirements on such
projects.
b)    All other sub-projects will be subject to environmental assessment.  This
commences with a Preminary Envirornmental Assessment Report (PEAR) that is
prepared by the proponent. The project may proceed if, after review, the Director
DLSE concludes there are will be no significant adverse environmental imnpacts.
c)    Projects for which there are potential significant adverse environmental impacts will
be subject to a full EIA process. The EIA, prepared by the proponent, must
consider alternatives and mitigation measures.  The EIA is
reviewed by DEC. Affected communities must be consulted and
there may be formal public meetings. DEC may request further PROF



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
information and, if approving the works to proceed, may set special conditions that
must be met by the proponent.
Responsibility for Consultation
The draft EIA Regulations require proponents to consult with and keep informed any local
communities affected by the sub-projects. The Regulations emphasis early communication
'I
I
I
I
I



Long Range Proposed Works Plan
l              Annual Proposed Works Plan & Rough Order Budgeting
l                         Preliminary Design & Drawings
Sub-projects that have no, or
low but acceptable,
envirornmental impacts
DEC grants a             Prepare Preliminary EnvironImental Assessment
j                    Waiver from further                       Report (PEAR).
EIA requirements?
l                               z            ~~~~~~~~~~~~DEC Reviews PEARl
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i                                                                        Sub-projects that have
significant potential
envirornment impacts
|~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~DS gie aproal                                Prepare detailed EIA report l
l                                               |       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Public Consultationl
Public Hearing! DLSE Review
J                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DL   gives approval?
If approved, works       If approved, works       If approved, works proceed under
proceed under provisions   proceed under COEP          COEP provisions, some special
of COEP with minor      provisions, some special    conditions or design modifications
compliance monitoring      conditions may apply         may be required to mitigate
with compliance        environmental effects. Compliance
monitorinjt                monitoring reauired.
Figure 1: Environment Assessment Procedures Applied within the
LAMP (based on the draft EIA Regulations). Note: ? signifies



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMPfor Samoa
a decision step in the process.
between the proponent and DEC to ensure that procedures are streamlined.  The
Regulations also require DEC to prepare and publish guidelines on EIA procedures to
proponents.
Not all consultation will of course terminate in agreement  In some cases, it may be
necessary to end consultation even though there may still be areas of disagreement. At
that stage, it may have to be accepted that agreement will not be reached within a
reasonable time frame and that the EIA should be submitted for review by the Director
DLSE (Clause 24 of the Regulations).
Clause 13 (Interim Action) of the draft EIA Regulations appears to provide the proponent
with some degree of choice as to whether preliminary works can be undertaken provided
that they do not "... have an adverse environmental impact or limit the choice of reasonable
alternatives concerning the proposal". It is reconmmended that this latitude not be taken up in
the IAMP, especially as the decision to do such works is that of the proponent, not the
Director or the Minister of DLSE.
Because the draft EIA Regulations are not yet enacted by Cabinet, a number of features in
the Regulations cannot realistically be adopted (e.g. Ministerial approvals, fimctions of the
Environment Board, and application of penalties). For the purposes of the IAM Project,
suitable alternative delegations for these aspects have been suggested that keep the actions
within the IAMP team (see Section 3.2).
Screening
For projects that have no, or low but acceptable environrnental impacts, the Director DLSE
may issue a waiver to the proponent from  the further requirements of the EIA
Regulations. In issuing a waiver, the Director DEC will rely on the advice of the Assistant
Director DEC. DLSE will be required to prepare and advertise guidelines on the types of
projects or environmental effects for which a waiver will be issued. Such works are likely
to be adequately covered by the COEP provisions.
For other projects, in order to determine whether an EIA is necessary, a systematic
procedure needs to be followed, as indicated in the GoS Treasury Manual on Project
Planning and Programming. Morgan, 1998 (EIA in Samoa) provides a comprehensive
schedule of the issues that need to be considered when screening projects for possible
impacts. This process identifies those projects that require a detailed assessment and those
that can be approved without the need for an EIA. Various requirements will arise from
the EIA process such as:
*        Ongoing consultation;
t   *    Monitoring;
*        The preparation of Project Implementation Plans;
t   *    The time and days of operation;
j   *    Delineation of heavy vehicle routes;
*        Noise and air emission constraints;



Environmental Impact Analysis of the lAMPfor Samoa
(pollution from oil spill, release of lubricants and other chemnicals, erosion, etc.) at
and near the runways as well as in adjacent areas, and suggest a monitoring plan
whereby drainage waters are regularly monitored (as would be the case for
industrial effluent);
c)    Address any adverse environmental impact associated with the proposed
protective coastal structures that will take place at the end of the airport,
d)    Address any relevant adverse impact associated with possible elevated noise level,
lighting, more frequent bird strikes, etc. caused by the expected traffic increase and
larger carriers;
3.1.2 Road Rehabilitation Component
e)    Assess environmental issues associated with road rehabilitation and bridge
replacement work (e.g. drainage, erosion, poor excavation practices, location of
households etc.)
3.1.3 Coastal Infrastructure Management
f)    Identify the environmental issues associated with the selection of appropriate
protective strategies and structures in coastal areas (relevant to the Samoa
situation) *e.g., protective walls, beach and coastal earthworks (including
breakwaters, constructed headlands, submerged breakwaters, etc.) which aimn to
inprove the environmental management in the coastal areas in the Coastal Hazard
Zone (CHZ) strategy plan or in other coastal areas in question;
3.1.4  For all Project Components
g)    Evaluate the current legal and regulatory provisions for EIA and environmental
management, proposed reforms, and effectiveness of the implementing framework
for all infrastructure-related works and services, including recommendations on
needed strengtiening,
h)    Review the sample Code of Environmental Practice (COEPs) proposed as a basis
for  environmental management, and comment on appropriateness, likely
effectiveness, suggested enhancements or alternatives, and the implementing
arrangements needed for optimal effectiveness in regard to this project;
i)    Describe relevant project alternatives examined (including the environmental
criteria used) in the course of developing the proposed project;
j)    Ensure proper provision in the project preparation for the implementation of
current EIA requirements;
k)    Identify possible resettlement issues, and any required studies or monitoring plans;
1)    Together with PSC, consult and meet with interested non-
governmental organisations to determine the level of interest and



Environmental Impact Analysis of the lAMPfor Samo-a
Sedimentation control practices and measures;
Maintenance of fish passage in rivers;
*        Dust suppression;
*        Landscape rehabilitation;
*        The preservation of historically or culturally significant sites; and
*        The avoidance of ecologically sensitive areas (e.g. mangroves, and coastal and
riparian margins).
The EA screening process does not need to become cumbersome, particularly if the parties
involved, PWD and DLSE, acknowledge each has a legitimate role to play and that
adequate time is allowed for both parties to carry out their role. This will require
advanced planning and communication. Eventually, many of the environmental issues
and constraints will be articulated through the Management Plans provided for in section
116 of the Lands, Surveys and Environrment Act, and the processes will be understood
through its application to previous cases.
Assessment
An Environmental Impact Assessment needs to be undertaken for those project
components that involve works which are either sensitive or have the potential to be
sensitive because of one or more of the following considerations:
*     The scale of the project;
*     The proximity and/or the effect of the project to residential and agricultural
production areas in particular;
I   *  The proximity to and/or the effect of the works on places of value, such as
ecological, historical, cultural, scenic, food gathering and water supply locations;
and
I   *  The level of disruption such as land severance, relocation, land acquisition, dust,
noise, odour, glare and visual intrusiveness.
3.2   Codes of Environmental Practice
There is an urgent need to define a set of accepted practices and operating procedures that
would provide guidance on environmental management issues and outcomes. The
application of these procedures would commence at a project's initial formulation and
I               design phase, and continue through to its construction and ongoing operation and
maintenance. Such standards would need to be consistent with Samoa's existing statutes,
and forthcoming environmental legislation and regulations, as well as meet the World
Bank's operational directives.
It is proposed that such operating procedures would be appropriately implemented by the
introduction of a set of Codes of Environmental Practice (COEP). These would guide and
control the ways in which environmental aspects of al] civil engineering works and the
private sector are managed and addressed.
A set of COEP was recently developed for Fiji, under another World



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
Bank financed assistance, which has the potential for assisting environmental management
of road and other civil works in the Pacific Island context, namely "Codes of Environmental
Practice - Road Planning, Design, Construction and Maintenance", August 1998. The COEP
includes  administration  and  design  procedures,  specifications,  investigation
recommendations and definitions. Essentially, COEP are only a general guide to good
environmental practices.  It is the role of the EIA and the accompanying Project
Implementation Plan to provide details as they relate to specific activities at specific sites.
While the specific COEP developed for Fiji relate specifically to that country's legislation,
the framework and concept are a useful starting point for Samoa. Adaptation of the Fiji
COEP to Samoa was scheduled to have been undertaken by now. It is now essential that
these be prepared for implementation before the first phase works begin of the IAMP.
The type of issues that would need to be addressed to reflect the social, legislative and
physical environment of Samoa would include:
*     Legislation;
*     Government department responsibilities and structuring;
*     Village and community structures;
*     Land ownership structures;
*     Compensation and land acquisition procedures,
*     Health and safety directives;
*     Protocols for stakeholders and communities, and
*     The existence or applicability of land management (town) plans.
There is a need to introduce an environmental mnanagement system early in the project
cycle so that consideration of environmental issues is incorporated and integrated into the
design, thereby avoiding and minimnising negative impacts, and embodying measures as
part of an integrated design. The COEP does this by giving guidance on good practices
during preparation of a project, and thus goes well beyond just providing a final
authorisation as to whether the project output and the manner in which it is done meets
the required environmental standards.
In terms of the IAMP, it is envisaged that the COEP would also need to cover, not just for
the planning design, construction and maintenance of the road network, but also for the
implementation of coastal protective strategies and structures.
Although Samoa comprises a relatively small land area, potential problems potentially
remain in ensuring that the principles and practices specified in a COEP are applied on the
ground. One means of achieving this is to ensure that the overriding principles related to
various project types, as represented in the COEP, are stated explicitly and agreed upon
between the proponent, the DEC and where necessary, the village council(s) potentially
affected by the project component.
These standards and methodologies should then be reflected in the design plans and the
conditions relating to the proposed development. The details relating to,
say construction practices, as well as matters on which approval was



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
given in the EIA will then form the basis of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). This
document sets out the lines of project management, mitigation, contingency measures, and
monitoring requirements to be put in place during the project including the person (or
position) responsible for ensuring compliance with the PIP.
The progress made by contractors should be assessed not just on a time basis (as time
penalty clauses relate), but also on the basis of the quality job they do in relation to
environmental issues. For example, contractors would be subject to penalties if ground
beyond the site boundaries was disturbed, operational hours were not observed, or trucks
did not take the designated route.
3.3   Environmental Mitigation Plans
An Environmental Mitigation Plan (EMP) can stand on its own or be an integral part of the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP). However it is structured, the EMP should be strongly
integrated into the project's overall planning, design, budget and implementation. This
plan will consist of various measures and actions to be implemented to avoid, remedy or
mnitigate impacts to a level that is acceptable to affected and interested parties.
T'he World Bank Operational Directive 4.01 specifies that mitigation plans should be
essential elements of Category A projects, while they may alone suffice for many Category
B projects. Most, if not alL of the information for the EMP should be included in the EIA
that will identify all environmental impacts, and how and when the mitigation measures
will be imnplemented.
The EMP will not be confined to just on-site effects, but should also include the effect of
off-site activities, for example trucking routes, sediment outwash, traffic diversion and
spoil dumps. The exact nature of the rnitigation measures will depend on the location of
the site relative to potentially sensitive settings (e.g. coastal fringes, farming corridors and
village communities). The EMP should be initially developed by the proponent and then
ratified by DEC It would then need to be agreed to by the Project Manager and the site
contractor(s).
A generic checklist needs to be developed against which the proponent should assign
measures that have been agreed to by the local community (Village Council) together with
those that have been specified as conditions in approving the development proposal. This
checklist may cover such as aspects as:
*    Physical/Natural Environment such as soil erosion, sediment coritrol, fish passage,
flora and fauna values, water resource values, monitoring, landscape values;
*    Social and Cultural Environment such as ongoing access, health and safety
concerns as they relate to particular groups such as - children, ongoing
consultation, continuation of work or food gathering activities; and
*    Construction & Post Construction Activities: such as hours and
days of operation, temporary construction facilities, noise,



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMPfor Samoa
lighting and dust effects, fuel and machinery storage, material stockpiling,
temporary screening, plantings, the condition of the machinery.
The principle objective of an EMP is to ensure that all those matters that have been
identified and agreed upon as part of the EIA process are detailed in a logical and explicit
manner. It will be the responsibility of the proponent to ensure that the mitigation
measures are adhered to or applied. However, it could be expected that this responsibility
is likely to be delegated to the contractor's project manager.
To assist implementatiori of the mitigation measures, the project site boundaries will need
to be clearly defined, preferably on a plan included in the EMP. This will help ensure that
the physical works do not extend past the specified area for the project
The DEC should make provision in the EMP so that it can inspect project sites at any time
(both during or outside work hours) in order to look at work practices and the
implementation of assigned mitigation measures or approved conditions for the project.
Where it is observed that such measures have not been implemented, then the officer
concemed should, in serious cases, report the nature and location of the alleged breach
directly to the Assistant Director, DEC. The Assistant Director DEC would then make
direct contact with who ever has responsibility for the implementation of the EMP at the
project site. In minor indiscretions, the site project manager would be advised directly.
An EMP should consist of the following elements:
*     All anticipated significant adverse environmental effects (as discussed above in
regard to the checklist);
*     For each identified inpact, the mitigation measure needs to be descrbed and the
technical details provided, including the conditions under which those measures
may be applied;
*     An individual or party needs to be assigned responsibility for each mitigation
measure in relation to its operation, implementation, remedial action, financing,
reporting and staff training,
*     A programme of indicating the point at which such measures will be implemented;
*     Monitoring and reporting programme and procedures; and
*     Identification of costs and the source of funds for the implementation of mitigation
measures both during construction and during normal operations.
In order for an EMP to be effective and cost efficient, it is essential that, apart from being
strongly linked to the overall project planning process, adequate financial and time
resources are allowed to enable effective supervision to be implemented during and after
the project's completion.
I.



Environmental Impact Analysis ofthe lAMP for Samoa
An EMP should be prepared for each of the project's sub-components or groups of sub-
components (for example, bridge replacement works, or minor coastal protection works).
Where the individual projects are not large scale and do not have potentially significant
environmental effects, standard type documentation can make up a significant proportion
of the EMP that would also be supplemented by information to reflect conditions at the
particular sites. The EMP document should be as succinct as possible, yet sufficiently
detailed to provide clear directions in respect of the above listed elements.
It is proposed that IAM-1 projects (as they are not large scale works and have relatively
low environmental implications) could act as pilot EMPs to trial their implementation in
the field. In parallel with this trial, full scale EMPs could be developed in draft form so
they are ready for implementation when the larger more environmentally sensitive
projects are implemented.
3.4  Institutional Arrangements
The draft EIA regulations clearly set out the steps and who is responsible for each stage of
the environmental assessment process. For each sub-project, proponents such as PWD
and SAA would be responsible for liaising with and advising DLSE, preparing all
environmental assessment submission documents, developing mitigation measures and
altematives, ensuring affected communities are consulted and informed. The proponents
would also be responsible for implementing the sub-projects within the scope approved
under the environmental assessment, implementing the works within the provisions of the
COEP, and meeting any specific conditions of EA approvaL
DLSE would be responsible for independently reviewing an application for an
environmental assessment and giving the appropriate approval or not, as the case may be,
or referring the application to a higher stage in the EIA process. DLSE would generally be
required to respond to applications within a time frame specified in the draft Regulations.
DLSE would also be responsible for publishing guidelines on activities that are permissible
without further reference to the Regulations (ie. the waiver provision under Clause 3C).
Because the EIA Regulations have not yet been enacted by Cabinet (under Section 146 of
the LSE Act, 1989), and to keep environmental management activities within the control of
the IAMP team whilst under development, it is proposed that, for the purposes of the
IAMP at least during IAM-1 from January 1999 to December 2002:
* The Director DLSE will be delegated to carry out the Ministerial approval functions
described in the draft Regulations;
*  The LAMP Steering Committee will be delegated to carry out the Environment Board
functions described in the draft Regulations; and
*  No sanctions or penalties will apply (as described in Part VII of the draft Regulations),
but the IAMP Steering Committee will be empowered to take appropriate remedial
action where significant defaults have occurred that cannot be resolved between the
DEC Officers and the proponent



Environmental Impact Analysis ofthe IAMP for Samoa
Whilst the responsibility to carry out environmental assessments and develop mitigation
measures lies with the proponents of each sub-project, in many instances this
responsibility will be exercised through local and intemational consultants. Proponent's
staff, particularly those of PWD, will need to be familiar and competent in managing
consultancy contracts for which the TOR includes provision for preparing documentation
for, and obtaining, environmental assessment approvals. PWD staff will also need to be
familiar with the requirements and applications of the COEP, and develop a working
understanding of the implications of environmental issues on projects, especially during
the inception phase of the sub-project cycle before engineering consultants are likely to be
appointed. Within the PWD, the key responsibilities are visualised to lie with:
*  The Director PWD for policy development and implementation, and institutional
leadership on environmental matters within the Department;
*  The Chief Civil Engineer PWD for developing and incorporating environmental
management and best practice (including the COEP) into engineering design, contract
documentation and supervisions, and monitoring; and
* The Chief Architect PWD has a similar role to the Chief Engineer in respect of building
works and architectural developments;
-  The Assistant Directors, PWD for the application of environmental controls (including
the COEP) into the construction and maintenance works operations.
Whilst the PWD may appoint engineering consultants to carry out many of the design and
environmental management activities for sub-projects under IAM-1, some of these
activities may be retained in-house, especially for smaller, or relatively straight forward
works. Under IAM-1 it is expected that such in-house activities will be handled by core
staff who develop a working knowledge of environmental nanagement issues and COEP
requirements but are not environmental specialist The technical leadership would come
from the Chief Engineer PWD. Whilst the Institutional Strengthening study for PWD will
address the ultimately issue, it appears that the development of a specialist environmental
management unit within PWD is appropriate given the small number of professional staff.
The key role of PWD engineers will be to identify areas of a project design that require
investigation, to brief consultants and to enforce quality programmes, especially where
these include environmental control.
Neither the PWD and SAA as proponents, and DLSE as regulator, currently have the
institutional strength to undertake all aspects of the EIA process as contemplated under
the draft Regulations.  SAA are in the best position to imnplement and enforce
environmental management in respect of the Faleolo Airport works since all the
development activities are to be contracted out to, and EM  responsibilities can be
implemented through, an intemational consultant. It is proposed that proponents under
IAM-1 and DLSE should adopt the provisions of the draft EIA Regulations from the outset
recognising that their ability to meet all its requirements will initially be
difficult It is proposed that, under IAM-1, full implementation of the



Environmental Impact Analysis ofthe lAMPfor Samoa
EIA Regulations will be achieved by all parties by the end of the second year. During ths
process of initiating the application of EIA procedures, it may be helpful for PWD and
DLSE to have a specific working understanding, which could perhaps be expressed
through a Partnering Agreement, that commits each to a progressively higher level of
achievement of the EIA requirements, identifying progress milestones against an agreed
timeframe within two years.
A high level of expectation will also be placed by the project and GoS on private sector
consultants, and on construction contractors, to implement environmental management
practices. It is recogrised in the project design that proponents, DLSE, consultants and
contractors will require training and support on environmental mnanagement practices and
procedures to increase their skills and capacity.  The Project provisions of a
Coastal/Environmental Adviser attached to the Project Management Unit (PMU) to
provide inter alia advice and training on environmental management, design, and
practices should satisfy the primary need, but should be reviewed carefully at the mid-
term review.
3.5   Role of the Department of Lands, Surveys and Environment
DEC's role in any of the EIA processes needs to be absolutely clear, so that there is no
room for confusion for both intemal (DEC) staff, and extemally for State and private
project proponents. Probably one of the most important areas requiring clarification is that
DEC may not have the ongoing staff resources, and should not be put in a position where
it is requested to conduct an EIA on behalf of a proponent This point is also made in the
Treasury Manual on Project Planning and Progranmning.
Being the agency that will review PEAR's and EIA's, DEC must remain detached from
certain aspects of the EIA process. It can, however, provide guidance and reference to
good envirornmental practices or COEP. Another useful role that DEC can perform is to
review draft EIA's, although this is not specifically detailed in the draft EIA Regulations.
Such a preliminary review could be done at the concept or prelimninary design phase of a
project component and would have the benefit of saving a lot of time and effort later in the
process.
The developer or proponent must either undertake the EIA themselves, or contract a
specialist consultant to properly describe the proposal, and to identify and research the
environmental implications and mnitigation. If DEC performed this role, it would be acting
as both 'judge and jury' which is obviously not a tenable position.
In addition, it is DEC's role (as proposed in the draft EIA Regulations) to make
recommendations to the Minister on the merit of projects based on the implications for the
envirorunment In short, DEC needs to ensure that the EIA process for any project is
conducted with the minimium of delays while ensuring that the environment is managed
in a sustainable way.
It would also appear that an increased level of transparency in decision-making by DEC
would assist in the public and proponents to understand why certain
decisions are made. For example, predetermined guidelines or criteria



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
could be developed so that both a high and consistent standard of scrutiny is achieved.
Equally, advice to potential proponents needs to be consistent in its approach.
In the coastal zone, this will ultimately be achieved through the implementation of a
Coastal Management Strategy and Management Plan, supported by public consultation
and raising of awareness.
In essence, good practice guidelines need to be developed to aid in the production of
EIA's. This is not just in order to deal with their content (which the draft EIA Regulations
seem to focus on), but. more importantly the manner in which EIA's are developed,
namely in a technologically robust and socially appropriate manner.
The Land, Surveys and Environmental Act contains various provisions if certain offences
are committed where the environment is put at risk In addition to this, specific contract
'conditions for each sub project will need to contain reference to the Environmental
Mitigation Plan and/or the COEP in respect of any measures or conditions required to be
implemented or applied. In the event that they are not, the specific action will apply.
3.6   Role of Private Sector Consultants and Contractors
The delivery of many public works services by the private sector has the potential to
improve work practices. For example, better resourced private companies should (in
theory) be able to use equipment that can undertake physical works more efficiently (time
and cost wise) and in less environmentally damaging ways. Countering this, it could also
be argued that they may be more inclined to 'cut corners' to minimise costs and maximnise
profits to the contractor. Consequently, this could result in detrimental implications for
the environment if the construction processes are not monitored so they meet specified
performance criteria.
Use of the private sector will therefore necessitate clear Project Implementation Plans and
the supervision of works by experienced PWD Project Managers, as they proceed to
ensure all conditions of the development proposal are met.  For example, contractors
would be required to submit a resource plan for extracting rock, gravel or sand materials
and methods of mnitigating adverse impacts (restoring the extraction site etc) for approval
before works could commence. The longer term success of utilising the private sector will
be determnined by the scale and number of projects proceeding in Samoa, maintaining
effective competition and avoiding monopoly situations and loss of controL The latter
would otherwise seem to be of little advance on the present situation.
3.7   Monitoring of Environmental Effects
The draft EIA Regulations, as they are currently worded, make no reference to monitoring
of specific developments although one of the defined duties of DEC under the LSE Act,
1989, is "to act as the advocate of environmental conservation ... with advice on ..procedures for
the assessment and monitoring of environmental impacts' and "to carry out investigations and
research relevant to the protection and conservation of natural resources and the
environment.".



Environmental Impact Analysis of the LAMPfor Samoa
Monitoring should be the specific responsibility of the proponent and shared with those
affected by the project. A specific monitoring plan will be an essential element of certain
developments and can take many forms. It is essential to have baseline data, which tells
the proponent and DEC what the environmental conditions were like prior to any works
proceeding. As with the preparation of the PEAR and the EIA, monitoring is the
responsibility of the proponent or their representative.
The results of monitoring should be submitted to the DEC at agreed intervals for its
assessment to ensure that the conditions of the proposal continue to be met. Because the
regulations are not yet in force, it will not be possible to apply financial penalties, where
any requirements are breached.
Monitoring could be restricted to once during or following construction, or equally it could
involve a regular programme of testing. It can also take the form of ad hoc reporting by
people or organisations other than the proponent
The EIA should identify an appropriate and affordable monitoring programme. The two
most important roles of monitoring are to verify predictions that can only be estimated
during the EIA process, and secondly to indicate where unanticipated (and usually
unacceptable) changes are occurring to the environment as a result of the development.
Two areas of monitoring will need to be established in support of environmental
management as follows:
(a) Monitoring on sub-projects to ensure that the scope of works does not differ from the
scope that was approved under the draft EIA Regulations, compliance with any COEP
provisions or conditions of EIA approval. In some instances appropriate baseline
environmental information may need to be gathered and submitted with the EIA.
Such preparatory monitoring should be identified in the implementation plan for the
sub-project. This will permit the evaluation of impacts over time compared with
baseline data.
(b) Critical areas such as the coastal hazard zone should be monitored to identify the
long-term trends of natural processes and so quantify changes in the baseline
conditions.
Examples of monitoring activities are presented below:
CARRIED Otrr BY:   ACIIVlrY           PURPOSE
DLSE             Compliance Monitoring    Observation to ensure that proponents are meeting conditions required under
the COEP, PEAR or EIA.
DLSE             Aerial Photography   DLSE will use this for CHZ assessment and monitoring long-term changes to
the coastline. PWD will use this for engineering design.
PWD/DLSE/ SAA    Oblique Photographs  Used by PWD/SAA for monitoring asset condition. Used by DlSE for
evaluating trends and environmental effects over time.



Environmental Impact Analysis of the fAMP for Samoa
CARRIBD OUr BY:   ACnIVTY              PURPOSB
PWD/DISE          Beach Surveys        Monitoring of beach profile changes. PWD would use this as part of asset
condition monitoring. DLSE would use this for evaluating long-term tTends as
part of a CHZ assessment.
PWD/SAA          Condition Surveys of  Development of maintenance programmes for coastal assets and defence
coastal protection systems. systems.
DLSE              Routie water quality &    Evaluation of water-quality in the lagoons and sientific surveys of
eco systems monitoring    ecosystems. This is seen as a long-term routine activity to be carried out by
DLSE (and MAFFM) independently of the lAMP.
As monitoring at Faleolo airport will primarily focus on the potential discharge of
contaminants from the drainage system to the lagoon, the above list is also relevant to this
component of the project. The main aircraft refuelling apron drains directly onto grass,
not to any form of bunding or interceptor. This issue needs to be considered as part of the
design activity to be incorporated within the TOR for the engineering of the airport
improvements.
3.8    Coastal Hazard Mapping, Strategies and Management Plans
Recognising that the coastal zone is an environmentally sensitive area in Samoa, the
project incorporates:
the preparation of Coastal Hazard Zone Maps that will identify areas vulnerable, and
the degree of sensitivity, to the effects of coastal storm hazards; and
the development of a Coastal Infrastructure Management Strategy (CIMS) leading to
the  development and  application  of location  specific  Coastal Infrastructure
Management Plans (CIMPs) supported by extensive government, public and viUage
community consultation, and public awareness raising and education programmes.
The Coastal Hazard Maps will identify and quantify areas in the coastal zone that are at
risk from natural hazards such as cyclone induced waves. The impacts of these hazards
will need to be addressed by proponents (or their design consultants) in their proposals for
constructing infrastructure in the coastal hazard zone. Designs aimed at mitigating the
hazards also need to be evaluated for their potential environniental impacts under the EIA
procedures.  The hazard maps also incidentally provide a basis for the economic
evaluation of development proposals.
The development of a CIMS will need to be consistent with the already existing NEMS.
However, the CIMS will be focused on infrastructure development in the coastal zone.
The more site specific CIMPs will eventually be recognised, and have the status of, as
Management Plans under Section 116 of the LSE Act, 1989.



Environmental Impact Analysis of the lAMP for Samoa
3.9   Consultation on Environmental Management Issues
Under the draft EIA Regulation proponents are responsible for consultation with, and
keeping informed, all communities affected by each sub-project development
Under Part V of the draft EIA Regulation the Director DLSE is responsible for arranging a
public meeting for the purpose of facilitating public involvement in the EIA process for
those sub-projects that are deemed to potentially have significant adverse environmental
impacts.
Proponents will need to ensure that the TOR for the appointmnent of consultants
incorporates the design and implementation of a public consultation process.
Consultation will need to take account the unique protocols of Samoan society.
Consultation with Village Fonos will generally need to be done through the services of a
Talking Chief and will involve ceremony and the exchanging of gifts. The Ministry of
Internal Affairs will also have a role to play in this process, especially in their relationship
with the Pulenu'u representing the Village and through whom  consultations may
conmnence.
Apart from keeping communities informed on the nature and consequences of proposed
developments, activities such as arranging access for works, survey and monitoring will
also require village consultation. The aerial survey work to be managed by DLSE will be
relatively unobtrusive on local communities and will involve village consultation only for
the purpose of clearing and re-marking the geodetic ground control survey benchmarks.
The development of a CIMS and CIMPs, to be undertaken by DLSE, will involve extensive
village consultation in up to three districts as part of IAM-1. Consultation protocols are an
essential element of the design of these activities. These sub-projects will also involve
public education and awareness raising that will be implemented through public meetings,
the distribution of pamphlets and booklets, and advertising through the newspaper, radio
and television.
A framework for consultation with stakeholders, including village communities, is set out
in the parallel social assessment study by O'Meara (1998). A significant amount of lead
time will be required for such consultation for project planning as well as environmental
assessment purposes.
3.10 Integration Through GIS Systems
The project will incorporate the development and use of GIS tools within DLSE and PWD.
The Coastal Hazard Maps, for example, will be able to be published in GIS form. Such
tools, although not essential, can be useful for environmental management both in respect
of scientific evaluation of environmental impacts and in the presentation of material for
public consultation and awareness raising. The incorporation of environmental elements
and natural resources information into the GIS databases should be an
early priority for either the project or an alternative funding source



Environmental lmpact Analysis of the IAMP fior Samoa- 
(perhaps bilateral)
'I



I



Environmental Impact Analysis of the [AMP for Samoa
4   PROJECT COMPONENTS
4.1   General
This environrmental analysis addresses components specific to the first Infrastructure Asset
Management Project, IAM-1, and identifies issues likely to arise in the rest of the 8-year
IAM Progranmme. These components are defined and commented on below and should be
read in conjunction with the Site Visit Observations in Appendix B.
Sub-components in IAM-1 that are likely to require EIA studies are limited to the coastal
protection works. In the case of the airport coastal protection works, it is proposed that
the environmental impact assessment work will be undertaken as an integral part of the
design and supervision consultant's contract. The EIA for other coastal works would be
undertaken by loacl consultants guided by the Coastal/Environmental Advisor. All other
works and services would be implemented under the standard operating procedures
called Codes of Envirornental Practice (COEP) being adopted by PWD at the beginning
of the Project.
4.2   Resettlement Issues
There is no relocation or resettlement proposed for sub-projects to be financed under IAM-
1. Site observations provided no indication that relocation will be required in relation to
coastal protection works or Faleolo airport's improvements. The only potential for
relocation of individual dwellings or parts of villages would be associated w-ith some of the
road development works - road widening and upgrading - being proposed under IAM-2.
The present Project plan provides for prepatory and feasibility studies to be conducted
during IAM-1, which would assess the land and any possible resettlement issues.
Consideration should be given to the possibility of voluntary relocation of dwellings. For
example, the village of Tafua on the southeastem corner of Savai'i was left extremely
prone to further storm damage after cyclones Val and Ofa. A decision was made to
relocate the village buildings to about 200-300 metres inland, leavng a rugby ground
where the village was once located.
Severance of land may also be an issue where a road, for instance, results in a small parcel
of land being detached from the larger portion of a land title. The land acquisition
procedures are covered by the Social Assessment report for the Project (O'Meara, 1998).
In brief, the implementation of satisfactory mitigation measures will play a big part in
determining whether resettlement issues are able to be resolved in a manner acceptable to
both parties.
4.3   Summary Assessment
The table which follows summarises the four project components, highlighting the existing
environmental status, the perceived impacts of the IAMP developments, measures that
can be taken to ameliorate these impacts, and the benefits that will



Environmental Impact Analysis oftthe lAMPfor Samoa
accrue from  the proposals.
BASELINE                POTENTIAL              MlTIGATION               BENEFITS
CONDMTIONS                 WMPACTS                MEASURES               (of the lAMP
(of the LAMP                                  proposals)
proposals)
Airport (Faleolo)    Outdated interior for an  Inconvenience to      Careful programmning of  Provides the country
Improvements      intemational terminal.     travellers & staff during   runway & taxiway    with a more
terminal refitting.    resurfacing operations.   favourable 'gateway'
Runway 300 metres short of                                                for intemational
ful intemational          Additional vigilance    Adherence to proper     visitors, especiaUy the
requirements.             required by air traffic  procedures regarding   tourists and airport
control during         the use & transfer of   visitors.
Existing runway requires  resurfacing operations.   resurfacing materials so
resurfacing.                                      spillages are avoided.    Improves the safety
Spillages from                                 and operational
Substandard drainage of the  resurfacing materials  Advice to airport     functioning of the
airport grassed areas.    resulting in pollution of   visitors indicating the  airport.
groundwater & the      nature & final outcome
Some coastal margins      lagoon ecosystem.       of the upgrading        The lengthened
potentially susceptible to                        process.                runway will allow
structural failure.                                                       long distance aircraft
to use the airport.
Road Subsector    IAM-1 rect Componnt    Potential re-routing        Advising the public    Improved coksistency
Works                                        disruption & delays to    before & during      of 'speed
One way bridges with no   traffic during          construction periods of   environmnents' naking
pedestrian faclities well-    construction periods.    liklly delays, altemative  for easier driving
trafficked, populated areas,                      routes.                 conditions.
Potential dust and/or
Temporarybridge crossings.  mud problems during   Maintenance of access to  Lower accident rates,
construction periods.    residence and         hence less injuries,
IAM-2 Project Components                          commer  properties.   deaths and vehide
Will change the                                damage.
* Some main roads with    relationship between the  Implementation of
congestion & a high     remote vilages & the    traffic calming measures  Improved value and
accident rate considering   rest of the country by  to decrease speeds  functionality in road
traffic flows           reducing isolation.     through villages, such as  assets.
narrowed road widths
* Traffic delays leading to    Land acquisition under   or speed hurps.
potentially dangerous   IAM-2.
lmanoeuvres.                                    Adoption of COEP.
* Extension of road around                        Formal consultation and
Upolu.                                          land acquisition
procedures.
* Unsealed roads making
village access difficult



Environmental Impact Analysis ofthe lAMPfor Samoa
BASELINE                POTENTIAL              MITIGATION               BENEFITS
CONDMONS                   IMPACTS                MEASURES               (of the LAMP
(of the LAMP                                  proposals)
proposals)
Coastl            Potential susceptibility of  Potential to inhibit  Adoption of rigorous    Access to beaches may
Infrastcture      infrastructure (especially  groundwater flows      design approaches,      be limited thus
Improvements      roads) to future storm     through to the coast.   consideration of        reducing sand mining
damage.                                           altematives, explicit   practices.
Access to the coast may   consideration of
Drainage outlets to the coast  be limited or curtailed.    environmental impacts   Enhanced protection to
often danmaged, blocked or                        & mitigation measures,   infrastructure & land
inadequate capacity.      Possible modification of  & high standards of   areas from cyclone-
lagoon ecosystems.     construction.           induced sea action.
Utilisation of foreshore edge
by activities (such as    Need for off-site       Coastal protection      Sustainable
buidings) where the risks of  acquisition of rocks &  methods and design  management &
damage or complete loss   other construction      undertaken in          'development' of the
from cyclone wave action  materials.              consultation with the   coastline, especially
are high.                                         village concemed,       where it is presently
susceptible to damage.
Prevalent mining of beach                         Making the ViUage
sand, often unauthorised.                         Council aware of the    Development fits in
role & sensitivity of the   with strategic goals
Many informally constructed          .            coastal margin.         e.g. values placed on
coastal protection works                                                  aesthetics which
designed and constructed to                       Use of 'local' materials   should enhance
an inadequate standard.                           where they are available  tourism
from a suitable source -
.           also saves on transport   Lower real risks from
costs.                 cyclones damage to the
comumuity & the
economy.



Environmental Impact Analysis of the [AMPfor Samoa
BASELINE                POTENTIAL               MITIGATION                BENEFITS
CONDlllONS                  IMPACTS                 MEASURES               (of the IAMP
(of the L4MP                                    proposals)
propoa)
Institutional      Problems retaning           Possible loss of current    Potential transfer of  Some risks transferred
Strengthening      experienced, qualified staff.   employment positions,   some existing staff along  from GoS to the
especialy manual        with their experience    private sector.
Inadequate legislative     workers.                 and knowledge to the
framework to support                                private sector.         Performance based
planning & environmental    Loss of experience and                          outputs where value
controls.                  lack of direct access to  Achieving maximum      for expenditure can be
equipment that the GoS   'buy-in' from staff &  more readily assessed.
Work programmes often      can cal on, especially at   management why
governed by local interests   short notice during  changes are necessary,    The adoption of more
outside of a rigorous      emergencies.            explanation of available   rgorous design & ELAs
planning and budgeting                             options & maximise lead  leading to more
framework.                 Change of emphasis and  times for changes.       sustainable approach
thinking from local                             towards development.
Inadequate cycle from     'ownership' of the       Development of a robust
design to implementation,    environment to one of    statutory framework to    Adoption of a national
onitting consideration of  national consistency and   ensure changes can be  perspective on the
alternatives, economic     priorities,             implemented effectively.  environment that is
Justification & EIA.                                                        not dominated by local
A period of possible                            interests.
Lack of emphasis on ongoing  uncertainty during
asset managemenL           transitional periods.
Low utilisation of private
sector construction &
consulting resources.
4.4   Airport Improvement Components
The component focuses on upgrading the safety, reliability and operational efficiency of
Faleolo International Airport. It includes resurfacing of the existing runway, extension of
the eastern end of the runway, taxiways and apron pavements, terminal facility
improvements, a new control tower and equipment acquisition. The works are estimated
to cost WST 18.5 million and will be implemented by the end of 1999.
The proposed terminal facility improvements are confined to within the existing terminal
building structure, thus not affecting its current footprint. However, it was noted that the
current location of the septic tank for the terminal on the seaward side of the baggage
handling area was a somewhat limiting factor to implementing operational improvements
(pers. comm., Etuale Sefo, General Manager, SAA).
4.4.1  Runway Improvements
The eastern end of the runway presently consists of three grade levels of pavement
condition, namely:
*       Fully operational pavement for landing and takeoff manoeuvres;
i   *   300 metres of pavement limited to being a runway emergency runoff area; and
I  .    720 metres of decommissioned  runway, now  being allowed to
grow over with vegetation (gass).



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMPfor Samoa
At present there is an average of only 10 aircraft movements per day (4 of large or
medium-size jet aircraft), equating to a daily average of one take-off or landing every 2
hours. Ninety percent of the aircraft movements are toward the east with the low-level
part of the landings principally occurring over the sea and the westem end of airport's
own land. Takeoffs, on the other hand, will mean that jets are flying several hundred feet
above villages east of the airport compound boundary.
There is no reason to suggest that the proportion of flights moving in this direction will
change in the future, especially as a result of the proposed runway extension at the eastem
end. A longer length runway, in effect, will allow more heavily laden jets to use the
airport for longer distance trips as well as improve its capacity to cope with the adverse
conditions. Aircraft can already use this 300 metres of runway as an emergency runoff
area, but not for standard takeoffs and landings.
a)   In respect of noise levels the nearest dwelling is presently 550 m from the eastern
end of the runway. This dwelling is located about 70 metres inland of the main
road or 150 m south of the airport's maintenance buildings, east of the main
termnnal building. The extension of the runway would mean that aircraft which
require the full length of the runway for take off could be up to 70 metres closer
than at present. However this would only apply to westward takeoffs which is
approximately 5% of all movements. On this basis the changed proximity to
aircraft movements at the eastern end of the runway is expected to have negligible
impact on the noise levels affecting those residents.
The nearest settlement to the eastern end of the airport is Satapuala village. When
the airport was extended and effectively moved in a westerly direction (about
1985), the closest aircraft movements (on the ground) were modified from 500
metres to approximately 1250 metres. The proposed pavement extension will
decrease this buffer to approximately 950 metres. Again this is expected to have
negligible additional noise impacts on the residents of Satapuala.
b)     Other than a change to the colour scheme of the existing ground level lihhtin.
there will not be any effects in regard to glare.
c)     Bird-strike is potentially more prevalent at the western end of the runway where
aircraft are flying at a lower level as they take off in relation to surrounding ground
levels, noting that the western end of the runway is cut into the hill east of the
hangers (refer Bell 1998). Again, the number of aircraft, rather than the 300 metre
extension to the runway itself is more likely to be linked with any increases in bird
strike activity. The SAA is currently addressing the issue of bird-strike, although,
in intemational terms it is not a significant problem at Faleolo. However, most
airline companies using Faleolo have very limited fleets, so a bird strike could
highly influence their capacity and therefore the number of in-bound and out-
bound of passengers from the country.
d)     The runway extension would also provide a greater margin of



Enzironmental Impact Analysis of the lAMPfor Samoa
safety for aircraft operations. If this results in the difference between a damaged or
undamaged aircraft, it is also likely to mean people will also have a greater safety
margin. Given this airport's present and future ratio in tourist (approximately 30%
of GDP) and international trade, it will be important to maintain its international
status, especially given the country's geographical isolation in the mid-Pacific.
e)     Paving Operations: On its own, the extension of the runway at the eastern end of
the existing runway can be considered at Category B principally due to the
environmental 'risks' associated with operational (or the paving) processes.
Environmental management of the works would be specified under the Codes of
Environmental Practice being adopted by PWD for all works under the Project
i   f)  Fuels (flammable materials) should be kept at a distance from drain openings
(especially those to the sea) in case of an accidental spillage. The fumes can be a
nuisance to people without the appropriate equipment and/or used to the smell,
therefore the plant should be located away from the concentration of operational
areas in the vicinity of the terminal (passengers, ground staff and residents).
4.4.2  Coastal Protection Structures (Faleolo)
At the time of conducting this Environrmental Analysis, the coastal protection works were
not formally included as a sub-component of the Faleolo airport infrastructure
improvement works. There is an existing seawall along the northern boundary of the
airport runway which is intended to hold secure the 75 metre width of soft landing area
between the runway pavement and the sea.
However, a significant portion of this seawall was damaged during the Ofa and Val
cyclones and has not been repaired. The eastern end of the seawall opposite the proposed
runway extension has been completely destroyed. The seawalls also assist in maintaining
the structural integrity of the drainage outlet structures which pass under the runway.
Subject to formal design review, it is probable that reinstatement of the seawalls is justified
to meet minimun  performance standards (rather than being justifiable on econonic
cost/benefit grounds). Whilst other options should be considered during design, it is
highly likely that reinstatement of the seawalls will be the preferred solution for the
airport site.
There are many inter-related issues relating to the coastal edge of the airport, the major
issues being:
(a)   The absence of perimeter fence west of the VOR. The fence was destroyed in one
of the cyclones and has not since been replaced. As a result people can walk along
the coast, and can wander onto the airports most sensitive operational area, namely
the runway. To date, no problems have arisen, yet it remains a concern for the
SAA. The fence must be constructed of non-reflective (i.e. non-metallic) materials
in the vicinity of the VOR  Not only does the existing situation potentially
endanger aircraft and their passengers, but also anyone who



Environmental Impact Analysis of the lAMPfor Samoa
should wander onto the runway area.
(b)   The lagoon area seaward of the airport is a fishing area for the local population.
The grass strip along the edge of the airport provides a convenient means of access
for people from the neighbouring villages to this fishing area. In addition to people
on foot, marine life is gathered from boats which go fishing further out into the
lagoon. The area is used by up to a dozen people at any one time during the week
and even more people in the weekends for subsistence (not recreational) purposes.
The ongoing 'harvesting' of the lagoon for marine life is likely to be a finely
balanced process which could be adversely affected if activity along the shoreline
changed the physical and/or biological conditions in the lagoon.
(c)   The seawall lining along the northern edge of the airport is not only a protective
structure for the runway against the sea, but it also serves as a conduit for
freshwater springs underlying the runway. It is also the point at which several
stormwater pipes exit from the airport into the lagoon. One of these pipes in
particular (approximately 200 m west of the VOR) is exposed and the visible section
is showing signs of severe deterioration to the extent that it is collapsing and
blocking the drain openigs. The conditions of the underground portion of this
pipe would also have to be questioned. Any further protective works along this
-coastal edge would need to carefully take account of these factors so that adequate
drainage of the runway substrate is continued and the potential for surface flooding
over operational areas is min-mised.
(d)   Coastal protection works along the edge of the airport could take one of several
forms. It would appear that only limited parts of the coastline have been 'lost' to
cyclone damage, but the nature and scale of any works could extend beyond those
damaged sections. It has yet to be determined why specific parts of the coastline
were more prone to damage; one possibility is that freshwater springs may be
washing fines out from around the rocks, thereby causing instability when they are
attacked by waves.
(e)   Access by construction vehicles and equipment will be principally determined by
airport operatilonal constraints, should be able to be confined to airport-owned land
and therefore should not affect neighbouring villages. The coastal rehabilitation
works will likely straddle the boundary between land administration by the SAA
and the lagoon for which the village is the customary 'caretaker'.
(f)   The airport is a restricted area and there are signs on the boundary indicating this.
People from the village are not allowed on airport land, so there should be no need
to advise them about likely disruption to their unlawful entry and access. It is
possible that foundations will have to be dug for the coastal protection works
whether they be revetment or rip rap. Any excavation will likely result in sediment
being release into the lagoon. The Proiect Implementation Plan (PIP) will need to
address how this effect will be best instigated in terms of construction techniques
and what time of year (or tide) it would be most appropriate to



Environmental Impact Analysis ofthe IAMPfor Samoa
operate.
(g lAThe PIP should also specify where fuel supplies and machinery will be stored when
not in use, and where refuelling or maintenance (such as the hydraulic lines) will
occur relative to the coastline.
4.4.3  Drainage Pollutants
The airport is served by a combination of point source and non-point source discharges for
ground and stormwater. From the brief observations that were conducted on 20 July 1998,
there were no obvious deleterious discharges occurring into the lagoon water, such as
plumes of water with high sediment loads or scums, or petrochemical plumes.
It was observed, however, that there was no form of bunding or guttering surrounding the
apron area where refuelling of aircraft occurs. This apron is located in front of the airport
terminal and covers an area of some 20,000 m2. In the event that a specific spillage
incident did occur, or runoff from a cumulation of mninor spillages, these pollutants would
soak into the ground around the edge of the apron. This being the case, any pollutants
would filter through the scoria rock base and eventually into the lagoon via the freshwater
springs. It would appear that, except in the case of major downpours, any pollutants
would access the lagoon via the stormwater intake. This intake, which is located about 90
metres seaward of the apron, does not appear to have any form of interceptor on it, thus
any pollutants would wash straight out to sea.
In reality, it is more likely that the greatest source for ongoing pollution of the
groundwater resource would be from the discharge of liquid wastes, such as chemicals
and petrochemicals directly into the ground usually related to workshop operations.
Evidence of such practices was visible in areas inspected, but it is not known when these
occurred.
Pollution from erosion (in the form of sediment outwash loads) which can lead to siltation
of coral along the lagoon's foreshore area was not evident during the site visit. However,
it is understood that during the wet season, outwash from the freshwater springs
increases, thus removing fines from between the rocks and possibly threatening the
stability of the rock lining in the event that coastal surges pass across the lagoon.
It was observed that in one area, some undesirable debris which appeared to be car and
equipment parts had either been left there or washed ashore after heavy seas.
It may be possible to institute a drainage monitoring plan, but this would need to be
structured to suit the purpose for which it was designed and to include a detailed
knowledge of the layout and conditions of the underground drainage system. It would
also need to take account of costs, frequency of monitoring what analysis should be
monitored and the practicality of conducting a scientific analysis. At the time of
observation, no water was being discharged from the stormwater pipes
(being the dry season), therefore the differences operating between
dry/wet seasons would need to be taken into account. In monitoring



Environmental Impact Analysis ofthe IAMP for Samoa
the water emanating from the freshwater springs for example, a monitoring programme
would need to account for the condition of water as it entered the boundary of the airport
compound and whether it was polluted from 'upstream' sources. Also a decision as to
what waters would be monitored, namely the culvert discharges, freshwater springs or
lagoon waters should be made.
It is recognised that a study of the financial, economic and social aspects of the three small
airports operated by the SAA (Fagali'i, Maota and Asau) will be conducted in late 1998.
No account has been taken in this Environmental Analysis of any possible spin-off effects
should the operational status of these airports change in the immnediate future.
4.4.4  Terminal Improvements
With tourism being promoted as one of Samoa's potential economic eamers, provision
needs to be made to mrinimise the disruption to passenger arrivals and departures caused
by the terminal construction works. The first and last impressions gained by tourists of
the island can be influenced by the airport terrninal facilities, thus the provision for adding
a strong cultural and traditional theme to the architecture of the building is appropriate.
4.5   Road Rehabilitation Component
At present it is understood that road safety concerns and the condition of some sections of
the road network consumes a disproportionately significant proportion of Samoan
society's time and energies. The high accident rate, especially those involving children,
will have a traumatic effect on families and associated village conmunities. To help
counter this, a range of measures have been proposed involving a total of WST 12.8 million
for bridge rehabilitation and replacement, road preservation and development, and road
safety and pedestrian facilities. These physical works will be supplemented by a 5 year
Road Safety Action Plan involving a further WST 2 million which includes enforcement
and education programmnes.
In all situations, the timing (relative to the wet and dry seasons) of construction works will
be inportant, together with exhibiting a sensitivity towards the surrounding environment,
whether it be dominated by people or vegetation.
The proximity of roads to the coastline and waterways is becomning increasingly important
in order that their location or function does not adversely impact on environmental values
or potentially threaten other aspects of the built environment. These infrastructure assets
need to be designed for generally low storm levels, but occasionally interspersed by the
forces associated with a cyclone.
The road infrastructure improvements include the:
}   *  Construction of new roads (none of which will be constructed during IAM-1);
*     Rehabilitation/reconstruction of existing roads (reconstruction/widening and/or
resurfacing);
*     Replacement of one lane bridges with 2 lane bridges;



Environmental Impact Analysis ofthe IAMP for Samoa
Construction of new bridges;
*     Construction of pedestrian facilities;
*     Implementation of road safety measures (such as lane markings); and
;   *  Construction of new roads (none of which will be constructed during IAM-1).
IAM-1 project components are scheduled to involve al aspects of the Tuaefu and Lelata
bridge replacements, the design through to the initial construction phases of the Main
West Coast Road rehabilitation and the coastal protective works along this road. The
effects resulting from the replacement of the two bridges wiU focus on the disruption to
traffic and pedestrian flows and discolouring of the rivers they cross during the
construction phase. The nature and scale of these impacts is such that they should be
adequately addressed by the practices provided by the proposed COEP.
Given that a study is proposed to be conducted along altemative routes to Main West
Coast Road on Upolo, it is presumed that any upgrading works along the existing route
will primarily take the form of standard road upgrading works, rather than works such as
involving new route aligunents. The exact impacts associated with the rehabilitation of
this road will depend on the extent and nature of the works beyond the existing road
corridor. If this is the case, then any environmental assessment of a minor nature could be
integrated into the design and supervision consultant's tasks.
The following section discusses the main issues that will arise as a result of these works
based on site observations of a range of proposed sites.
4.5.1  New Road Construction
The construction of new roads, such as the proposed 6 kilometre link between Falelatai
and Matafa'a, will potentialy have the most significant environrmental effect of the road
programme sub-component These works would occur under IAM-2, therefore the
feasibility studies and EIA studies should be prepared during IAM-1.
A new road corridor along this route wil result in a loss of native vegetation and possibly
plantation land which, if not properly provided for, could have unnecessary impacts for
the ecological values of the area or for the economic viability of crop production. The
ecological implications are likely to be a loss of habitat for bird and animal life, and the
interruptions of the wildlife corridor between the coastline and the hills to the north at the
base of Mount Tafua on Upolo. It can also be expected that the flow paths of both above
and below ground level water courses will be disrupted. The construction of this road
may also result in aesthetic concerns, especially if it is routed over hillsides, some part of
which may be highly visible from some vantage points.
Conversely, a number of significant benefits will result from the construction of this road
as it wiU provide a valuable link between the westem end of Upolo and the South Coast
Road, thus enabling the completed circuit route of Upolo. At present, the western end of
the Main South Road and the townships at the westem end of the island are some 30
kilometres apart by road travel. The new road will decrease to about 6
kilometres in length and will provide a far more efficient travel route in



Environmental Impact Analysis ofthe IAMPfor Samoa
this part of the island. It is envisaged the new route will also eventually provide have
significant benefits for tourism as it will provide considerably more convenient access to
villages and tourist operators along the southwest coast that are currently difficult to
reach.
Activities associated with construction activities have the potential to cause significant
impacts to villages at either end of the road linkage as well as to the lagoon habitat in
Lefaga Bay, and to a lesser extent Fagaiofu and Fagalei Bays. Being on the circular route
around the island, villages can expect that traffic flows will increase considerably
compared with the current situation. Without appropriate provision in the design stage,
this has the potential to create road hazards, especially for children who currently use the
road as a footpath. Villages can also expect an increase in the level of disturbance due to
the noise of passing vehicles.
The main source of potential damage to the natural environment could come from
inappropriate work practices and/or road design, especially on those parts of the route
which pass over moderately steep gradients. Unless there is an awareness of the risks
and issues, construction of the road could lead to excessive sedimentation loads eventually
settling over the coral reefs in the lagoons. A large part of the risk associated with
sediment disturbance will relate to:
-     The distance of the road corridor from the coastline in association with the potential
fragility and hence vulnerability of that coastline;
I * The frequency with which the route intercepts freshwater springs and their flow
rate;
The cut and fill volumes that need to be disturbed along the route; and
*     The treatment of the road corridor in the vicinity of watercourses, such as the
-etention of riparian strips.
Route selection, along with the construction practices applied, will therefore deternine the
envirornmental implications of a new route to a considerable degree.
An accident resulting from the process associated with bitumen sprays for a new road
surface or with machinery fuels represent a low probability event, but should one occur, it
could have a potentially high environmental impact. The construction operaftons will
therefore need to be managed by predetermiined best practice techniques so as to avoid, if
not. mitigate against, such events.
4.5.2  Road Rehabilitation/Reconstruction
Several components of road rehabilitation and reconstruction are proposed to occur under
the IAM-2 but the feasibility and EIA investigations should be conducted during IAM-1.
Examples that were visited included:
- * The Return to Paradise-Matafa'a road
* .   The Falefa-Taelefaga road;
e     The Main West Coast Road corridor from Apia, past Faleolo to



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
Mulifanua wharf; and
The roads either side of Fagalihi Airport (princpallyfuinded by GoS);
Return to Paradise and Matafa'a Road
The road between Return to Paradise and Matafa'a is presently very narrow and has a low
quality unsealed surface. In many places the road is located close to the sea, the route
presumably, historically determined by location of the main village buildings. When this
road is designed, it would be appropriate to consider the alternative of relocating some
sections of the road further inland so it is at less risk of wave surge damage. This could
only be achieved with the agreement of the village council.
When the tourism industry has a higher promninence in the future, it would be preferable
for roads running parallel with the coast to be located inland of it. By so doing, villagers
and tourists alike will not have the tranquil coastal setting disrupted by traffic just a few
metres away from the foreshore.
Setting the road back from the coast also allows a vegetative and visual buffer to establish
between the shoreline and road-associated activities. Observation would also suggest that
the closer a road is to the coast, the greater the incentive for informal development along
the coastal interface, sometimes by constructing ad hoc reclamations. Areas immediately
kinand from the sandy shore or rock face are sometimes occupied as a habitat by coastal
fringe wildlife such as crabs, as well as it being the point at which freshwater springs often
discharge above ground level.
Falefa to Taelefaga Road
The reconstruction of the road between Falefa and around the shoreline of Fagaloa Bay
offers a different set of issues. Predominantly, this road is either cut into the side of steep
coastline escarpment, or passes through a series of coastal conmmunities located just above
sea leveL The quality of the present road (generally a 3 metre wide rough track) effectively
acts as a buffer between the village communities and the rest of Upolo, even though they
are only about 25 kilometres from Apia. It would appear that the average daily traffic
flows along these roads are very low. The observed level of vehlcle ownership in the
|             villages (such as Sauago, Saletele and Taelefaga) also appeared to be low.
A two lane or even 1.5 lane sealed road linking these villages to the Le Mafa Pass Road
and the Main East Coast Road has the potential to alter their relationship to the rest of the
island both from an economic and social stance. The existing road (or track) through the
village communities was also observed to be an integral part of the land area on which
|             community activities take place, such as recreational space for the village children. The
main reason for this appeared to be that the material on which the track was located was,
in many cases, no different either side of the road. In addition, areas of flat, habitable or
unforested land in the vicinity of these villages along this road being were frequently in
short supply.
If the roads are to be widened or sealed, the water runoff capabilities will
be a crucial element to maintain the stability of the land. At present, the  @A_



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
combination of a narrow road, unsealed, and in many places shadowed by palm trees,
means that the runoff through roadside drains and culverts is not significant. However, if
the road is widened and sealed, the potential for high runoff levels during storms will
increase markedly, as will the potential for damage to the roadside environment from
scouring and slips.
These roads will need to be constructed in a manner that will allow them to remain open
throughout the period of construction, although traffic delays may well be an integral part
of the construction phase. The alternative routes to some of these villages are considered
to be impractical as they are long, especially over such rough road conditions.
In this and other respects, consultation with the village council will be very important to
refine what issues are of importance to the individual villages and to discuss what options
are realistically available, especially in regard to any rerouting alternatives.  It is
recommended that a representative(s) from the vilage could be appointed to a project
liaison conmittee which would exist for the preconstruction and construction period.
Many variations on this theme are possible to provide a means for the village to keep m
contact with progress, and to act as a forum to voice any concerns or suggestions as the
project proceeds.
Careful consideration will need to be given to the social implications of reconstructing the
road between  Falefa and  Fagaloa Bay.   At preserit, apart from  subsistence
agricultural/fishing, some villagers could well be earning an income for the village from
the production of handcrafts. When the level of access to main town (in this case Apia) is
upgraded, there is potential for viUlagers to leave their traditional community for a job in
the urban centre.
The physical aspects of road construction/reconstruction will be discussed under the
adoption of Codes of Environmental Practice for civil engineering works in Samoa (refer
section 2.6).
Main West Coast Road
The road between Apia linking with Faleolo International Airport and then on to
Malifanua wharf along the Main West Coast Road is proposed for improvement, including
widening, realignment and reconstruction. Tlis road carries the densest and most heavily
trafficked volumes in the country. However, it is presently characterised by variable speed
environments, poor seal conditions, minimal marking and warming signage, relatively
narrow seal width (which leads to dangerous passing manoeuvres), and periods of high
pedestrian usage without many designated footpath areas. The condition of some vehicles
is such that they drive on the wrong side of the road (for some hundreds of metres) to
avoid uncomfortable undulations in the road surface conditions. The current accident rate
along this stretch of road reflects these conflicts and the sub-standard concditions.
This road is strategically important as it provides the coastal (and shortest) link with the
international airport and the Savai'i ferry terninal wharf. It is noted from the 3 August
1998 Aide Memoire that LAM-1 will involve the development of the road
plan and rolling programme, and a feasibility study of other corridor



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMPfor Samoa
options prior to finally conunitting to improvements of the existing Main West Road
corridor. The existing alignment largely parallels the coast and is therefore limited to some
extent by the coastline itself or the re-establishment of residential and institutional
activities along the alignment of the existing road corridor.
Besides the volume of traffic along this road, it is characterised, unlike other Samoan
roads, by a significant proportion of trucks and buses. Their size relative to the width of
the road makes pedestrian use along the edge of the road's sealed margin potentially
hazardous for children going to and from school, and for adults going to and from their
place of work or shopping.
The 35 kilometre road between Apia and the ferry wharf passes through many villages.
This would necessitate a comprehensive consultation programme which would require
sufficient time for the design and supervision consultant to develop an appropriate
solution for this section of the road, if this route was to remain. Key issues that will need
to be considered are likely to include:
*        The relocation and provision of designated footpaths;
*        Pedestrian crossings at strategic points;
*        Increased vehicle speeds and volumes;
*        Planning for future residential and other developments along this particular
road corridor; and
*        Provision for bus layby areas so they can pick up or off-load passengers
without impeding traffic flows.
Fagali'i Airport Road
The road either side of Fagalihi Airport is proposed to be both widened and straightened
with some sections to probably still follow the original alignment Altholugh this is
primarily a GoS-funded project, with only the new river crossing funded as part of the
LAMP, the following comments are relevant as the design and works will involve
management and supervision by PWD.
The Fagali'i airport terminal is located on the periphery of Apia, near a primary school,
residential dwellings and the golf course, which together with the vehicle and pedestnan
traffic generated by the airport itself, mntakes this is a busy area. At present, the roads are
generally the equivalent of one and a half lanes wide (about 4.5 metres). The project also
includes changing the alignment of the road over the Vaivase Stream. This will involve
upgrading the existing culvert structure and realigning the road. It is understood that
some structures on land leased from the Samoan Land Corporation may need relocation.
The preparation and supervision of this project by PWD should include appropriate
consultation with the village council, including assessment of the route options and the
respective advantages and disadvantages these will bring both pedestrians and road users.
Works in the stream (to build either a bridge or a new culvert structure) will again need to
be undertaken in accordance with the seasons. In the event that Golf
Course road needs to be closed while the Vaivase Stream is rebridged,S



Environmental Impact Analysis of the lAMPfor Samoa
appropriate care and signage will need to be taken along Fagali'i Road to accommodate the
increased traffic flows for that period.
In most of the areas where road upgrading is proposed, property development encroaches
on the edge of the roadway but is predominantly landscaping so very little relocation of
structures is required. In areas where flat and/or well-drained land is at a premium, such
as around the coastal fringe, the competition for use of land can be intensive. The
improvement of a road may therefore increase the demand for development on land that
needs to be controlled through a management plan.
There are several means by which the effects of road widening can be mitigated, one of
which could be to use traffic 'calming' techniques through village areas such as traffic
islands, pedestrian refuges and road humps, while maintaining 'normal' road conditions
outside built-up areas. Specifically, the road could be narrowed through these areas so
that traffic speeds are lowered, as well as the route being made easy for pedestrians to
negotiate. Equally, the speed limits could be reduced through village settlements and
cautionary signage warning of the presence of children.
Since high intensity rainfalls are a feature of the tropical climate, it is essential that
adequate provision is made for the dispersal of stormwater so that it does not become a
threat to the safety and use of the road, or to adjacent land uses. Road drainage therefore
requires appropriate hydrological design
4.5.3  Bridge Replacement
WST 8.4 million has been allocated to the rehabilitation and replacement of bridges. Five
bridge replacements are planned between 1998 - 2004.
The nature of the terrain and the limited road network means that bridges are strategically
important infrastructure items. Therefore, the replacernent or upgrading of bridges will
sometimes mean that other routes may have to be used during the construction period.
This can be highly inconvenient to the public in general and industry because of extra
travel distances, and the resulting additional financial and time costs.
It is therefore recommended that the works programme be designed to minimise the
period over which the old bridge is decommissioned and the new bridge installed, where
the new bridge is located in the same position as the old bridge. Where possible, the use of
contractors with appropriate and sufficient equipment would greatly assist in this respect.
This will also minimise the risk of work having to be done in the river bed during the wet
season.
Replacement of old bridges or bridges with limited traffic capacity will enhance the
probability of these structures remaining operational during future natural disasters when
the maintenance of access is important Where feasible, provision should be made for a
dedicated pedestrian path over new bridges, especially in urban and peri-urban areas,
particularly where these bridges are on a route used by school-age



Environmental Impact Analysis of the lAMPfor Samoa
children walking to and from school.
In order to maximise the benefits provided by the new or upgraded bridges, thought will
need to be given to which side of the bridge (where it is only one side) the footpath should
be placed on. In the case of the Lelata Bridge's proposed replacement, for example, a
secondary benefit of a new bridge will be provision of a greater cross sectional profile that
will prevent local flooding. Apart from the convenience of providing a two-laned bridge,
residents living in the vicinity of the Tuaefu Bridge will be advantaged by the replacement
of wooden planks with a solid sealed structure which will significantly reduce the noise
impacts.
4.6   Coastal Infrastructure Management
Three pilot sites have been identified for coastal protection works to be undertaken during
IAM-1, namely at Fagali'i and Faleolo (on Upolo) and Faga (on Savai'i). The new
procedures being developed for hazard assessment, design of protective measures for hard
and soft solutions, environmental assessment and economic evaluation will be applied
during the preliminary and engineering preparation of these works.
There are several types of structures that could be used to protect the coastline assets. This
analysis does not take into account the cost effectiveness of such structures or coastal
protection techniques, including cost comparisons with other options such as the
relocation of roads away from the coastline.
4.6.1  Coastal Protection Structure Options
The predominant form of coastal protection proposed by the project is the use of seawalls.
At some locations, coastal protection systems may be needed to meet a mrinimum standard
(e.g. at Faleolo Airport, to preserve the soft-landing area between the edge of the runway
pavement and the sea, and to preserve the structural integrity of the stormwater drainage
outlets). At other locations, the cost of building such structures needs to be weighed
against the economic benefit of protecting the associated infrastructure asset
There are options other than seawalLs potentially available, but regard must be given to
whether they are more cost effective, or represent a reasonable compromnise of cost versus
benefits, or cause lesser adverse environmental impacts, or better preserve the character of
a site which may be beneficial for other purposes such as tourism. A number of potential
options were outlined in the review by Croad (1998), namely:
(i)   Submerged or reef type breakwaters as described by Ahrens (1987).  Such
structures are built using homogeneous, widely graded material without the need
for filter layers. The rock size will be considerably smaller than for seawall
structures. For a 2.5 m deep of water under cyclone conditions, such a structure
would require in the order of 20 cubic metres per metre length of crest. Subject to
detailed design, such a structure may be able to withstand
cyclone conditions in excess of a 1:10 year event and provide



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
good protection to the coastline.  Although submerged reef structures are
submerged during cyclone conditions, the crest will generally project above the
water during most normal tide conditions. Potential adverse effects of such
structures are:
*     Blocking of long period ocean waves that contribute to the building of
beaches during post storm periods;
*     Smothering of inshore coral; and
*     Reduced water circulation and stirring of the water column in the water
between the reef structure and the beach leading to potential water quality
problems.
(ii) Detached breakwaters are similar to submerged breakwaters except that the crest
generally projects above the storm water level. Some wave overtopping of the
structure will be acceptable. Gaps between the breakwaters allows the overtopping
flows to return. A tombolo (spit of sand) may form between the beach face and the
detached breakwater. More formally layered, the unit length construction cost of a
detached breakwater is likely to be similar, if not more than a reef-type breakwater.
Potential adverse impacts are likely to be sinilar to those for a submerged or reef
type structure.
(iii) Headland structures. These are described in great detailed in Silvester and Hsu
(1993). These can be used to enhance and stabilise the development of crenulate
bays by fixing the headlands which control the diffraction of the waves into the bay.
This mnay be effective for short bays and subject to site specific review, detrimental
effects may be limited. However, relatively few sites will be suitable for this type of
treatment.
(iv) Short segments of headlands can be placed along a beach to create a series of
crenulate bays. The headlands are designed to trap sand into more stable, crenulate
shapes leading to a wider beach. The headland structures would be quite low and
I                    would not be designed to withstand cyclone waves. The beach morpho-dynamics
need to be carefully studied and understood before such systems can be
implemented properly. Costs are likely to be less than for a continuous seawall.
(v) Low profile groynes may be appropriate to build up a wider beach in areas where
there is a longshore transport of sand. Sources of sediment supply and the beach
morpho-dynamics need to be well understood before being implemented. Groynes
can cause downdrift erosion if not installed appropriately or under the right
circumnstances. The groynes do not provide any direct protection against cyclone
waves other than to generate a wider beach buffer.
(vi) Beach nourishment has already been adopted at some locations on Savai'i and
Upolo. However, nourishment designs involving a different, usually coarser,
sediment compared to the in-situ sand material can be considered. Widely graded
sediments are desirable so that natural segregation of sediment
sizes can occur over the vertical beach profile and the beach profile 1



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMPJfor Samoa
is better able to adapt and stabilise to different wave conditions. The introduction of
widely graded sediments (perhaps involving some gravel content) probably means
using dark, basaltic, sand. At some locations, this may be aesthetically unacceptable.
Periodic maintenance nourishment may also be required.
A further option, not listed in Croad (1998), is nourishment of the lower beach (i.e. below
normal sea level). Nourishment is typically done in the form of a bar or mound. The
mound can be expected to migrate inshore under the influence of longer period, cyclone
waves. A detailed knowledge of the offshore currents would be required for such a
system to work. Potential adverse effects are similar to those stated in (i) above.
Notwithstanding that a range of alternatives to seawalls is available, seawalls will remain
the predominant form of protection system due to their robustness if properly designed.
The practicality of alternative designs should be examined as matter of principle in any
rigorous design approach. Some of the perceived shortcomings of the effectiveness of
options such as beach nourishment are due to a lack of knowledge within PWD and
inadequate acceptance by conmnunities that the sand resource provided in nourished
beaches should not be mined.
On some beaches, a hard ledge exists which indicates the outflow of freshwater into the
lagoon. Some options may be unfeasible because of this.
4.6.2  Coastal Protection Structure Issues
The aesthetic or visual implications associated with seawalls in particular can be
detrnmental compared with the natural coastline. However, in many of these locations, the
natural coastline has already been severely modified by reclamation or informal ('un-
engineeered') deposition of roadside materials. Many of these structures lack or fail to
provide foot access, such as steps or a path, to and from the shoreline. As a result, access
between inland areas and the lagoon or beach for villagers or tourists can be effectively cut
off. In some locations, this has been deliberately done to limit villagers' access to the
upper beach for sand mnining purposes.
The nature of the materials from which rip rap structures is constructed can also determine
|             the level of accessibility between the shoreline and the land behind it. If the rocks are
small, angular or placed on a steep slope, they can be difficult to negotiate, especially
where villagers are trying to carry items over them as well, such as nets, spears or canoes.
In some situations, it is necessary (for wave protection reasons) to build rip rap structures
somewhat higher than the ground level behind them in order to provide the desired level
of protection. As a result, views from village communities out to sea can be impeded.
This also has the potential to impede drainage paths from lower lying hinterlands. It
could be expected that similar situations may arise with seawalls constructed in the future.
In some areas, the seawalls become a convenient dumping location for rubbish,
presumably with the view that the sea wil eventually wash away the debris.
The observation was offered that there are so many beaches around
Samoa that village communities probably do not value them in the same



Environmental Impact Analysis of the LAMPfor Samoa
way as tourists do for instance. In respect of land use, many beaches are regarded as yet
another area of land that can be utilised for activities such as the removal of sand (sand
mining), the deposition of waste, or for reclamation. The role of the beach as a buffer to
storm action appears to not be overtly considered as priority compared with day-to-day
life of the local village. In addition, when structures (buildings, roads, reclamations) are
damaged by cyclone induced wave action, there is an expectation that the Government
(not the village) will provide the necessary funds to repair some or all of what has been
lost or that requires repair.
In planning for coastal protection structures, the current role(s) of the coastal areas needs
to be established such as ecological values, scenic, road margin, buffer to ocean swells,
food gathering or access. As part of the engineering design, it then needs to be established
what role that coastline should assume or is most likely to assume in the future - this
could be markedly different from its current role.
In making this determination, it is likely that a number of environmental issues will arise
which can either be avoided or reduced by the implementation of appropriate mitigation
measures.
In many locaftons around Samoa intervention of natural coastal processes or manipulation
of the coastline often corresponds with places where it has retreated or has been
threatened by storm action.  Several of these locations are strategcally important,
especially where the main island road is only metres away from  the shoreline.
Consultafton with the appropriate village councils will be mandatory, given that much of
the land tenure is customary and all land activities are controlled by the village council
which has the power over most land transactions, including utilisation of the coastline
itself, and the lagoon waters beyond.
The long term management and use of the coastal margin should also be discussed at
these forums so that inappropriate activities and practices are mininised or perhaps even
prohibited, especially in areas where the accretion of sand is crucial to the long term
protection and aesthetic quality of the coastline.
In places where the road or dwellings are located close to the shoreline, the discharge of
stormwater away from such assets is important This usually results in culverts being
placed at the upper end of the beach. Such structures can be visually obtrusive, and can
result in the loss of sand from a beach. In some cases, culverts may be able to be
integrated with rip rap, headland, revetment or breakwater structures, thus partially
disguising the outlet structure.
The availability of appropriate and/or sufficient quantities of construction materials may
have some bearing on the type of structure(s) built at a particular location, especially due
to the cost implications. Consideration will therefore need to be given to the source of
such materials and the off-site effects that may result, especially if the materials, such as
rip-rap, are not being obtained from an existing quarry.
The mangrove margin around parts of the coastline, at Sataoa, Saleilua
and Poutasi on the south coast of Upolo, had been completely lost due to



Environmental Impact Analysis of the lAMPfor Samoa
waves produced by the cyclones. This has exposed friable sandy land margins that are
highly susceptible to further coastal erosion, thus potentially further endangering the
village communities around these coastal margins. It appears that along parts of the
coastline where mangrove tracts were protected from the direct erosion forces of the sea,
they have generally remained in tact. Consideration will need to given to the engineering
designs that are applied to these stretches of coastline so that remaining mangrove areas
are not threatened. The proposed protection measures will need to provide for the
mangroves' highly susceptibility to:
Changes in tidal flow or salinity;
Structures which cause sedimnents to build up or be washed away from their root
systems; and
*     Polution from chemicals, oil or sewage discharges.
It is not known what condition these mangroves were in prior to them being lost to the
storms. Despite this, further disruption of natural coastal processes in the proximity of
mangroves will need to be avoided or at least minimised to ensure that remaining
mangroves are not unnecessarily disturbed by short term (especially construction) actions
or long term effects.
In summary, the coastline is a particularly valuable and sensitive resource, especially to
those villages that immediately border it Therefore, consultation wilU need to be
conducted at a level and in manner that reflects the scale and significance of the actual or
potential effects such works may have on the coastal resource. Equaly, the design and
supervision of the coastal project components will need to provide for the sustainability of
the coastal environment itself, as well as be cognisant of the many present and future
activities and demands along this margin.
4.7   Project Alternatives
At this stage of the project's development, alternatives are still being considered or have
yet to be considered in relation to the road rehabilitation and coastal infrastructure
components.
4.7.1  Faleolo Airport
Apart from the coastal protection works associated with Faleolo airport, the nature of the
works at the airport is principally refurbishment, enhancement and maintenance. In this
case, the environmental implications of the altematives are limited such as would result
from the intemal refurbishment of the terminal building, resurfacing and extension of the
runway, and enhancement of safety features. Nonetheless, options are being assessed to
ensure that the most appropriate measures will be implemented in terms of how they will
affect passengers, the local workforce and other determinants.
In addition a study of the country's three small airports is proposed to
assess, among other issues, the economic and social obligations and roles



Enuironmental Impact Analysis of the IAMPfor Samoa
in providing domestic and international air services.
4.7.2  Coastal Protection
Any coastal works under the project would be evaluated under the Coastal Infrastructure
Management strategy and guidelines to identify the hazard potential, and a series of
alternative treatments appropriate to the level of hazard would be considered - including
no treatment, beach replenishment, and alternative types and sizes of rock wall structures.
4.7.3  Road Sector Improvements
Improvements to the road infrastructure comprise a significant proportion of the overall
programme, especially in the second Project, IAM-2. The road components essentially
include:
Upgrading of the bridges, generally from single to double-laned structures. Similar
option considerations apply as discussed above;
*     Redevelopment and upgrading of existing roads for which there are generally
limited practical alternatives given the nature of the terrain in many places and the
level of settlement that would otherwise need to be disturbed;
* Replacement of possibly one new road in IAM-2 for which detailed options have yet
to be determrined and assessed.
In the case of the proposed redevelopment of the Main West Coast Road between Apia
and Faleolo airport, it is understood that consideration will be given to route options other
t;han the existing road corridor. This process is only in the initial planrnig stages at this
time. Likewise, at Salani bridge replacement on the south coast of Upolo, at least two
options are likely to be considered by GoS but it is not in the scope of the IAMP.
The few road development works being considered for IAM-2 will be subect to feasibility
studies that will evaluate an appropriate range of options in terms of economic,
environmental and social impacts.
4.8   Integration of Environmental Issues
Overall there is very little interaction between the environrmental issues affecting
individual subcomponents of the Project. The primary integrating factor will be the
institutional strengthening component which will ensure that the draft EIA regulations
will operate as if in force for the duration of the Project, that the COEPs will be applied in
all works under the Project, and that the implementing agencies (SAA, PWD and DLSE)
and the private sector will all improve their skills in environmental management.
4.8.1 Airport Improvement Component
The overall airport operation could be usefully subject to an



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMPfor Samoa
environmental audit where day-to-day and on-going operational practices would be
reviewed, such as the disposal of industrial waste such as petrochemicals, paints and
machinery parts and human wastes. This would not be a legislative compliance audit, but
one that focuses on the application of good envirorunental practices to avoid such things
as the cumulative pollution of the underground water-table and the lagoon area.
Unless there are obvious physical indications to the contrary, it is not proposed that any
field testing, analysis or monitoring be undertaken as part of the audit The output of the
audit process would be a schedule of recommendations and an action programme. It is
proposed that it would be conducted by a party external to the SAA (and excluding DLSE)
in order that independence was maximnised. It is suggested that the results of the audit
should be available by the end of 1999 in order that any actions could possibly be
incorporated with the proposed upgrading of the airport facilities.
4.8.2  Road Rehabilitation Component
Environmental aspects of the road component will be effectively integrated through the
application of the COEPs throughout the planning, design and implementation activities.
For the proposed road development activities to be considered under IAM-2, the terms of
reference for the feaslbility studies should ensure that environmental and social impacts of
appropriate alternatives are evaluated.
4.8.3  Coastal Infrastructure Management
The- lagoon coastal interface is an extremely sensitive area and should be regarded as such
in terms of implementing envnronmental responsibilities. Where coastal protection works
are proposed that involve a significant length of coastline (for example Faleolo airport,
Fagali'i and Faga), it is proposed that studies be conducted both prior to (benchmarking),
dunng (monutoring) and following (evaluating) such works.
These investigations would look into such matters as foreshore stability/vulnerability,
activities in the respective lagoons, changes in lagoon habitat conditions, and short term
implications of such changes. Such an investigation could include an assessment of beach
and lagoon settings where coastal protection works were done under the Emergency Road
Rehabilitation Project.
Benchmarking
Examples of the form of benchmarking are:
(i)   Cross-section measurements. These are required for engineering purposes, but
some of the transects should extend up to 150 m offshore to assess the profile of the
lower beach (and to allow comparative monitoring in the future);
(ii)   Review and evaluation of historical scientific studies (many of which have been
carried out under the auspices of SPREP and SOPAC, but also as part of previous
local and intemational engineering studies);
(iii)  Aerial photographs (typically reprinted to a scale of 1:2,000 for



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
specific site studies). Larger scale morphological changes induced by the works (or
other causes) can be readily assessed from such photographs;
(iv)   Ground level, oblique photographs taken from  locations which can be reproduced
post-construction); and
(v)    Sampling and measurement of sand properties (e.g. grain size and density). Such
information can be used to evaluate the sources of sand (in some cases), but is also
useful for design purposes and for quantifying morphological effects.
(vi)   Assessment of wave properties at the coastline.  This will be determined by
analysis. A detailed assessment is a corner stone to the analysis of effects, and
design of any coastal protection system. It also is the basis of a coastal hazard
assessment
(vii)   Evaluation of inshore currents. This can be quite difficult to assess for cyclone
conditions, but pre-existing conditions can be quantified by observations, use of
release and recovery surface and bottom drifters, drogue tracking, and assessment
from indirect evidence such as downdrift geo-morphological features.
(viii) Water quality of the lagoon as determined by the condition of the coral, water
quality tests, and mranne ecology transects sampling for species range and
abundance.
Monitoring
Examples of monitoring activities are presented below:
~~R2~~i~~j      ljmtYPE-    'PURPOSE
DLSE                Compliance     Observation to ensure that proponents are meeting conditions required under
Monitoring     the COEP, PEAR or EIA. -
DISE                Aerial         DLSE will use this for CHZ assessment and monitoring long-term changes to
Photography    the coasmine. PWD will use this for engmeenng design
PWD/DISE/ SAA       Oblique        Used by PWD for monitoring asset condition. Used by DISE for evaluating
Photographs    trends and environmental effects over time.
PWD/DLSE            Beach Surveys    Monitoring of beach profile changes. PWD would use this as part of asset
condition monitoring. DISE would use this for evaluation long-term trends as
part of a CHZ assessment.
PWD/SAA             Condition      Development of maintenance programmes.
Surveys
DLSE                Routine water    Evaluation of water-quality in the lagoons and scientific surveys of
quality & eco    ecosystems. This is seen as a long-term routine activity to be carried out by
systems        DLSE (and MAFFM) outside the scope of the LAMP per se.
monitoring



Environmental Impact Analysis of the [AMPfor Samoa
Evaluation
Evaluation of environmental effects should be carried out as an integral part of the design
process. Design reports should identify potential adverse environmental effects, or
environmental constraints imposed by policy or legal instruments such as Management
Plans (section 116 of the Lands, Surveys and Environment Act, 1989).
The incorporation of environmental issues in the design process, and the acceptance of
environmental constraints on projects, will become more robust over time, particularly as
Coastal Management Plans become established and enforced.
4.9    Sub-component Environmental Assessment Categories
The following table summarises the major project components which have environmental
implications and assigns category ratings consistent with Operational Directive 4.01.
PROJECT COPONENT    KEY ENVIRONMENTAL                             ENVIRONMENTAL
& SUB-COMPONENTS                       ISSUES                 CATEGORY OF PROJECT
.                                   SUB-COMPONENT
Airport (Faleolo) Improvements
Runway Improvements (LAM-1)      Potential risks associated  with             B
bitumen operations
Coastal Protection Structures (LAM-1)    Lagoon ecology values/food supply    B
resource
Drainage Works (IAM-1)           contammnation of freshwater aquifer           B
and conduits to lagoon
Terminal Improvements (IAM-1)    Minimal apart from  good work                 C
practices
Road Sector Works
New Road Construction (IAM-2)    Broad range of potentially sensitive        A or B
issues such as ecological, sodal,
hydrological, visual & agricultural
Road Upgrading or Minor Widening  Property frontage acquisitions               B
(LAM-2)
Road Rehabilitation and Periodic  Operating procedures                         B
Maintenance (IAM-1)
Bridge Replacements (IAM-1)      River\stream values and road access           B
altematives



Environmental Impact Analysis of the lAMPfor Samoa
PROJECr COMPONENT   KEY ENVIRONMENTAL                                      ENVIRONMENTAL
& SUB-COMPONENTS                             ISSUES                    CATEGORY OF PROJECr
SUB-COMPONENT
Coa;bl Infrastructure (lAM-1, 1AM-2)  Recreational  visual, access and          B (maprity of works)
(see Note I)                         lagoon ecological values
C (very mino works)
Note 1:     Projects that have a dassification of B in temLs of the World Bank Operating Directive 4.01 may stiU require an
EIA under the draft EIA Regulations. This is lky to be the case for most seawalls and coastal defence systems.






Environmental Impact Analysis of the lAMPfor Samoa
APPENDX A
REFERENCES I BIBLIOGRAPHY
Asian Development Bank (Office of the Environment), 1993: Environmental Guidelines for
Selected Ifrastructure Projects.
Asian Development Bank (Office of the Environment), 1993: Environmental Assessment
Requirements and Environmental Review Procedures of the Asian Development Bank
Athrens, JP, 1987: Characteristics of Reef Breakwaters, Technical Report CERC 87-17,
Coastal Engineering Research Center, Vicksburg, USA
Beca International Consultants Ltd, 1996: Faleolo Terminal Study Proposal for the Samoa
Airport Authority.
Beca International Consultants Ltd, 1997: Codes of Envirorunental Practice - Road
Planning, Design, Construction and Maintenance, Draft No. 1 prepared for the Governmnent
of Fiji, Public Works Department
Brian Bell, Wildlife Management Intemational Ltd, 1998:  Bird Problems: Faleolo
International Airport, Samoa, prepared for the Samoa Airport Authority.
Croad, RN., 1998: IDA Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project Completion Review and
Preparation of the Proposed Infrastructure Asset Management Project Coastal Protection
Works and Hazard Plannig Report, submitted to the World Bank Group, February 1998.
Department of Lands, Survey and Environment, 1998:  Draft Envirornment Impact
Assessment Regulations 1998
DP7, 1992.  Seventh Development Plan 1991-1994.  Prime Minister's Department,
Government of Samoa, Apia, Samoa.
Geden, B, 1998: Proposed Infrastructure Asset Management Project  Environmental
Analysis. Site Visit Report, July 1998.
Government of Samoa, 1989: Lands, Surveys and Environment Act 1989
Government of Samoa, 1992: Westem Samoa Tourism Development Plan 1992-2001.
Tourism Council of the South Pacific (TCSP), Suva, Fiji.
Government of Samoa, 1994: National Environment and Development Strategies (NESM),
Apia, Samoa.
Government of Samoa, Treasury Department, 1998: Manual on Project Planning and
Programming (part only).
Green, W. 1990:   Western  Samoa  Environmental Management
Development Appriasal Visit. Department of Conservation, Wellington,



Environmental Impact Analysis ofthe IAMPfor Sanoa
New Zealand.
Harding, E, 1992:  Strengtheing Operations of the Division of Environment and
Conservation, Westem Samoa. Draft Report TA No. 1235-SAM, Asian Development Bank,
Manilla, Philippines.
Intemational Development Association, 1988:  Samoa Proposed Infrastructure Asset
Management Project Second Preparation Mission, April 1998 Aide Memoire (Final)
KRTA, 1988: Environmental Planning for Tourism in Western Samoa, KRTA NZ Ltd,
Auckland, New Zealand.
Morgan, R. K, University of Otago, 1998: Environmental Impact Assessment in Samoa - A
Practice Guide for DEC Officers.
O'Meara, J.T., 1998: World Bank Proposed Infrastructure Asset Management Project, Social
Assessment and Consultation Framework Study, September 1998.
PA Management Consultants, 1985: Review of Govermment Departments, New Zealand.
Peteru, C, 1993: Environmental Legislation Review - Samoa, prepared for SPREP and the
Government of Samoa
Silverster, R & Hsu, JCR, 1996: Coastal Stabilization: Innovative Concepts, Englewood Cliffs,
New Jersey
South Pacific Applied Geoscience Commission and SPREP, 1993: Coastal Protection in the
South Pacific, prepared for the South Pacific Forum July 1993
SPREP, 1993: A Guide to Envirornmental Impact Assessment in the South Pacific.
SPREP, 1997: Action Plan for Managing the Environment of the South Pacific Region 1997-
2000
Wakeman,TH: Building Sustainable Public Policy Decisions through Partnerships, Journal
Management in Engineering ASCE Vol. 13, No. 3,1997, pp 440-48.
Tsunokawa, K & Hoban, C (editors), 1997: Roads and the Environment - A Handbook
(World Bank Technical Paper No. 376).
World Bank, 1991: Operational Directive 4.01: Environmental Assessment



Environmental Impact Analysis of the LAMP for Samoa
APPENDIX B
LIST OF PERSONS MET
The following list represents those people the writer either met, held discussions, or went
on field excursions with:
Public Works Department
Isikuki Punivalu            Director, PWD
Elisaia Talouli             Assistant Director, PWD
Paul Phillips              Chief Civil Engineer, PWD
Kapeneta Perelini           Assistant Director of Works, PWD, Savai'i
Lameko Viali               Contract Design Engineer
Department of Lands, Survey and Environment
Seumanutafa Aeau Tiavolo    Director, DLSE
Sailimalo Pati Liu          Assistant Director, Environment
La'avasa Malua             Senior Environmental Planning Officer
Leo'o Polutea              Senior Survey & Mapping Officer
Easter Chu-Shing Galuvao   Environrmental Planning Officer
Alafagia Isara-Belche       Planuing Officer
World Bank Mission Team
William Paterson            lAMP Team Leader & Principal Highways Engineer
Transport Sector Unit
Hakon Kryvi                 Coastl Zone Management Specialist
Collin Gannon              Senior Economist
Peter Long                  Consultant Highways Engineer
Richard Croad               Consultant Coastal Engineer
John King                        Aviation and Tourism Consultant
Other Organisations
Etuale Sefo                 General Manager, Samoa Airport Authority
J              Paul Fritz                  IAMP Preparation Co-ordinator
Chris Wheeler               AusAID representative at the Australian High
'Commission
Graham Costin                    Adviser Infrastructure & Environment (AusAID)
John Mooney                 AusAID Team Institutional Specialist
Moelagi Jackson             President, Fa'asao Savai'i Society (Enviromnental NGO)
Warren Jopley               Geologist Tour Guide



I



Enuironmental Impact Analysis of the lAMP for Samoa
APPENDIX C
SITE VISIT REPORT
1     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Bruce Geden, an Environmental Project Manager with Opus International Consultants Ltd
(Opus) visited Samoa between 16 and 24 July 1998 (Samoa Time Zone). A summary of the
investigations undertaken, and contacts made as part of the 'Proposed Infrastructure Asset
Management Project' processing requirements of the Government of Samoa (GoS) and the
International Development Association (IDA), are summarised below.
This report is a precursor to the actual Environmental Analysis to be presented following
the issue of this report. This work was undertaken in parallel with a pre-appraisal mission
conducted by the World Bank together with AusAID, with whom regular contact was
made over the duration of the visit.
2     INTRODUCTION
7.1   Background
Opus was commissioned to prepare an Environmental Analysis report for the above
project according to Govemment and World Bank guidelines (Operational Directive 4.01).
The intention of the study was to:
.    identify and assess the environmental issues associated with the project;
*    indicate any adverse environmental impacts of the proposed activities; and to
*    evaluate the need for further in-depth studies, reviews and environmental
mitigation plans under the project.
The project is tentatively proposed to operate over two separate phases spanning a total of
about 8 years, the first 3-year phase commencing in 1999. The project comprises four
components, namely:
(a)   Airport Improvements: Civil works and equipment for upgrading the safety,
reliability, capacity and operational efficiency of Faleolo International Airport. This
component includes a new control tower, possibly integrated with new
accommodation for the new fire tenders, and a second fire tender. Also included is
a rock seawall protection, minor drainage works at the eastern end of the runway,
and recabling of selected sections for airfield lighting have been added to ensure
safe and reliable operation.
(b)   Road System Provision: This component includes annually programmed priority
works for replacement of single-lane bridges. The road programme scope
encompasses all preservation and development works in the
planning and annual programme preparation, and to finance



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
periodic maintenance and road upgrading selected in compliance with economic
decision criteria. Routine maintenance would be programmed to required levels
but not financed by the project. Upgrading works would require feasibility study
under the project Road safety and pedestrian works are retained, emphasising
adequate focus on area safety treatments.
(c)   Coastal Infrastructure Management The development of a coastal infrastructure
management strategy, gradual participatory implementation of procedures, and
controlled implementation of coastal protection works. The procurement of a full
aerial survey, ground surveys and various map products is also included.
(d)   Institutional Strengthening: Four agencies are included, ie. i) PWD - for
institutional restructuring, private sector development, road planning and
programmning and asset management implementation; ii) DISE - institutional
review of DLSE and design of initial reforms; iii) Transport Control Board (TCB) -
improvement of road safety, road traffic administration and cost recovery in MOT
and Police Dept; and iv) Samoa Airport Authority (SAA) - business process
improvements.
Based on the work of previous missions, the mnajor environmental issues have been
identified as those associated with the development of a strategy for the coastal zone. This
strategy is aimed at preserving natural coastal processes to the extent possible, and to
control or limit damaging activities such as a inappropriate land use, sand mining,
blockage of drainage and flood systems, inappropriate structures, etc). In addition, there
are issues of drainage, erosion and poor excavation practices associated with the airport
extension and resurfacing and road maintenance.
3     TERMS OF REFERENCE
3.1   Scope of Tasks
Opus was requested to undertake the following tasks in preparing an Environmental
Analysis report in line with Government and Work Bank Guidelines (Operational
Directive 4.01).
A major goal of the proposed project is not only to mitigate adverse impacts of existing
practices, but also to anticipate the benefits of the project as welL
The tasks were as follows:
3.1.1  Airport Improvements:
a)    Confirm that the proposed expansion will take place within the existing compound
and not claim any area that has not already been set aside for airport purposes and,
if necessary, recommnend further EIA work (major airport expansion projects will
normally need a full EIA if extending beyond the defined area);
b)    Address the issues of environmental impacts caused by drainage



Environmental Impact Analysis oftthe IAMP for Samoa
was possible and appropriate;
(vi)  consider the necessity, nature and scale of any further investigations;
(vii)  consider conditions by which contractors may have to operate during the
construction phase;
(viii) become familiar with the nature and settings of existing IDA Emergency Road
Rehabilitation Project works; and to
(ix)  relate existing and proposed laws, regulations and guidelines to the situations 'on
the ground'.
Most of the site visits were conducted with one of three PWD engineers, so that they could
identify for the writer, as near as possible, the location of the proposed works. In many
locations, the nature and exact location (and extent) of these works has yet to be
determined, therefore the site visits could only be viewed in light of this 'limitation'.
However, this will not affect the outcome of the Environmental Analysis process (to be
presented in the forthcoming report).
As well as identifying the sites, the PWD engineers were able to act as an interpreters for
the writer when conversing with local people. At all locations, it had to be assumed that
the local population was not aware or had not been informed of, or consulted in regards to
such works. As a consequence, any discussions held with these people were conducted
accordingly and in an informal manner. In all cases, such discussions were very friendly,
positive and usually informative. Due to the relatively remote nature of many of the
locations, only native Samoan was spoken, hence the need for an intermediary.
Due to time limitations imposed by the duration of the visit and the number of sites where
emergency repairs have already been undertaken, there was not the time or the need (due
to the similarity of many works) to stop at every site. Together with hand written notes,
photographs were taken of each of the sites that was inspected.
Appendix C lists those sites visited during the writer's stay in Samoa, together with a brief
description of the observations (note this not an Environmental Analysis). The sites are
listed in the order that the writer visited them. On all but the Faleolo airport and southern
coast site visits, Hakon Kryvi, (Envirornental Coastal Zone Management Specialist with
the World Bank) accompanied the writer.
4.3   Environmental Analysis
The next scheduled output, as per the project Terms of Reference (especially the 'Scope of
Work'), will be the compilation of the Environmental Analysis. Both its presentation and
the items it covers, such as the screening process, will be consistent with Operational
Directive 4.01. This report will consider the Infrastructure Asset Management Project
principally at the generic, rather than site specific level. The mnain' reason for this is that the
Bank is considering the overall environmental status of the project, as
opposed to the component items of the project at the various sites
-I



Environmental Impact Analysis ofthe lAMPfor Samoa
concerns over environmental aspects, and identify specific aspects requiring
attention in the proposed project;
m)   Determine the need for follow-up environmental studies that should be
implemented prior to project appraisal, and others to be conducted under the
project;
n)    Assist DLSE with the formulation of an environmental mnitigation plan, which
should be incorporated in the Project Implementation Plan.
4     INFORMATION SOURCES
4.1   Reports and Studies
As a background to the project, a number of documents have been either reviewed in part
or in whole consistent with their focus and hence their applicability to the Environmental
Analysis process. These are listed in Appendix A.
4.2   Site Visits
During the eight days in Samoa, the writer visited a selection of sites on both the islands of
Upolo and Savai'i where it is proposed that funding would be applied to component
projects. It was not possible, nor was it ever intended that all potential sites would be
visited, but that a representative example would be viewed.
The writer's visit to Samoa was undertaken in the 'dry' season, which meant that some
stream or river channels were carrying minimal or no surface water. Consequently,
typical 'wet' season flows had to be visualised in terms of the relationship of water to
surrounding land uses and especially the proposed works.
The works proposed at some of the sites will be in direct response to the damage caused
by Cyclones Ova and Val in 1990-91, while some of those being proposed were partially
exacerbated by the two cyclones and partially in anticipation of other such events in the
future. Works are also proposed that are effectively unrelated to the cyclone damage and
are more related to generally improving the country's infrastructure.
The principal aim of the site visits was to:
(i)   gauge the typical scale and nature of the environmental problems or issues,
(ii)  ascertain the magnitude of the works potentially involved;
(iii)  consider possible altemative solutions;
(iv)  become familiar with the surroundings (physical and social settings) in which the
works are proposed to occur;
(v)   be able to speak with local people (usually villagers) where this I



Environmental Impact Analysis of the IAMP for Samoa
around Samoa.
The only real exception to this will be the analysis of the proposed works at Faleolo
International Airport, where the components are specific to this particular setting.
The writer's preliminary assessment of the project is that it is an Environmental Category
B project under the World Bank Guidelines, as few of the impacts will be irreversible and
mitigation measures can be designed provided prudent procedures are followed.
However, this judgement will be subject to final confirmation in the forthcoming
Environmental Analysis.
l*



