Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER
3193
WSO
COFINANCING GRANT AGREEMENT
(Infrastructure Asset Management Development Project)
between
INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the
GOVERNMENT OF AUSTRALIA
Dated April
21,
1999
GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER
3193
WSO
COFINANCING GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April
21,
1999
, between INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA
(the
Recipient)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association) acting as 
Administrator
(the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the AUSTRALIAN AGENCY FOR 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(AusAID).
 
WHEREAS: (A) pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement (Infrastructure Asset 
Management Project), dated April 21, 1999 between the Recipient and the Association 
(the IDA Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to extend to the Recipient a 
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million three hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 10,300,000) to assist in the financing of the 
Project described in Schedule
2
to the IDA Credit Agreement
(the Project);
 
WHEREAS
(B) pursuant to an agreement dated May 29, 1996 between the Government 
of Australia,
(Australia) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank) and the Association (the Arrangement), the Minister has appointed the Bank 
and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant
funds to be made available by the Australian Agency for International Development
(AusAID) for the financing of certain programs and projects supported by the Bank and 
the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of the
Arrangement;
WHEREAS
(C) AusAID has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of 
Page  2
said grant funds
(
the Grant
)
in an aggregate principal amount of AUD
2
,
300
,
000
to
assist in financing Part D.1 of the Project; and
WHEREAS
(D) Australia and the Association  have entered into an agreement of 
even date herewith
(Administration Agreement) pursuant to the Arrangement, making 
arrangements for the Association to process applications for withdrawal of the
proceeds of the Grant and regulating certain other matters of common interest in
connection with such financing;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January
1,
1985
(as amended 
through December
2,
1997), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this 
Section
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12) 
and
(13),
2.02 and 
2.03;
 
(iii)
Section 3.01;
 
(iv)
Sections
4.01 and 4.05;
 
(v)
Article V;
 
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
 
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
 
(viii) Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08;
(ix)
Article X; and
 
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i)
the term
"Association", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in
Section
6.02(e) thereof, means the International 
Development Association
acting as Administrator of the Grant
pursuant to the Arrangement, except that
in Section
6.02, the term 
"Association" shall also include the International 
Development 
Association acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term
"Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the
Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", wherever used in the 
General
Conditions, means this Agreement except that in
Section
6.02 (a), the term 
"Development Credit Agreement" 
means the IDA Credit Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the
Grant Account, an account opened by the
Administrator on its books
in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is
credited; and
Page  3
(vi)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth 
below, and
the existing paragraphs
(12)
through
(14) of said Section 
are accordingly
renumbered as paragraphs
(13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ 
means any country that the
Association
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section
10
of
Resolution No.
183
of the Board
of Governors of the Association, adopted on June
26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ 
means, collectively, all such
countries.”
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in Australian 
dollars;
provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Grant
have been paid or are payable in another currency, the
Administrator shall, at the request
of the Recipient, purchase such currency with
the proceeds  of such withdrawal."
(viii) The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country
which is not a Participating Country or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories; or
(b) for the purpose 
of any payment to persons or entities, or for any
import of goods, if such payment
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is
prohibited by a decision
of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
the Charter of the
United Nations.”
(ix)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is 
modified to read as
follows:
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower
and the Association of
their respective obligations under the Credit Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”
Section
1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Recitals to this
Agreement and in the IDA Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth, and the following term has the following meaning:
"Australian dollars" and "AUD" 
mean the currency of Australia
.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section
2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in the
amount of two million three hundred thousand Australian Dollars
(AUD2,300,000).
 
Section
2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account to finance
85%
of the expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of the items included in Category 
(3)(c) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the IDA Credit Agreement, 
provided, however, that no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures made prior to the date of the IDA Credit Agreement.
(b)
The Recipient may open and maintain in Australian dollars a special 
deposit account
(the Special Account) in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator.
Deposits of the Grant into, and payments out of,
Page  4
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to
this Agreement.
Section
2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, services to be 
financed out of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule
3
to the IDA Credit Agreement.
 
Section
2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section
3.01. (a) Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Articles III 
(other than Section 3.01 (b) thereof), IV and Section 5.01 of the IDA Credit 
Agreement, including the Schedules attached thereto, are hereby incorporated into this
Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it
being understood that all references in said Articles and Section to the
"Association", the "Borrower", and the "Credit" shall be deemed to be references to 
the Association as Administrator of the Grant under this Agreement, the Recipient, and
the Grant, respectively.
Section
3.02. The Recipient shall make every reasonable effort to acknowledge 
Australian Government Support for Part D.1 of the Project.
Specifically, the
Recipient shall ensure that all project letterhead, signs and media/public 
announcements acknowledge that the Project is funded under a joint co-financing 
arrangement with the Government of Australia as part of Australia
’s overseas 
development assistance program.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness
Section
4.01. (a) This Agreement shall become effective upon the Effective Date 
(as such term is defined in the General Conditions) of the IDA Credit Agreement, and 
the Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such date.
 
(b)
This Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereto shall terminate
if the IDA Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section
12.04 of the General 
Conditions for failure to become effective, or if the Administration Agreement shall
terminate.
Section
4.02. Subject to Section 4.01(b) of this Agreement, this Agreement shall 
continue in effect until the Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this
Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section
5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
 
Section
5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
 
For the Recipient:
 
Treasury Department
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box Private Bag
Apia, Samoa
Cable address: 
Telex:
Page  5
233
TREASURY SX
For the Administrator:
 
International Development Association
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688
(TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423
(RCA),
64145
(WUI) or
82987
(FTCC)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as
of the day and year first above written.
 
INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA
By
/s/
Tuiloma Neroni Slade
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
By
/s/
Klaus Rohland
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
1
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible item" 
means the item set forth in Category
3(c) set 
forth in the table in paragraph
1
of Schedule
1
to the IDA Credit Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" 
means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of services required for the Part D.1 of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" 
means an amount equivalent to AUD
200,000
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph
3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to AUD100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Administrator pursuant to Section
5.02
of the General Conditions shall be equal to
or exceed the equivalent of AUD500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Page  6
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator a request or requests 
for a deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.
On the basis of such request or
requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the
Administrator requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals
as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to
paragraph
4
of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested.
On the
basis of each such request, the
Administrator shall, on
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant
Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Administrator from
the Grant Account under the eligible item, and in the
respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(c)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to
the Recipient.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures
.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph
2
of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Administrator shall so
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Administrator shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
Page  7
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
