Report No. PID6102
Project Name                     Western Samoa-Infrastructure Asset   (@+) ...
Management Project -First Phase of the
Infrastructure Asset Management Program
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       WSPE52293
Implementing Agencies            (1) Public Works Department (PWD),
Private Bag,
Apia,   Samoa
Contact: Mr. Isikuki Punivalu, Director of
Works
Telephone:    +685 20 865,
Facsimile:   +685 21 927
(2) Samoa Airport Authority (SAA),
Private Bag, Apia,    Samoa
Contact: Mr. Samau Etuale Sefo,
General Manager
Telephone:   +685 20 865,
Facsimile:   +685 21 927
Current PID Date                 March 9, 1999
Appraisal Date                   December 18, 1998
Board Date                       April 15, 1999
1.      Country Background.    With a homogeneous Polynesian population of
167,000 on two main islands, Samoa has a strong cultural and environmental
heritage which influences much of the national life and economy. The net
population growth is less than 1 p.a. due to steady emigration to New Zealand
and Australia. It lies within the South Pacific cyclone belt and suffered two
devastating cyclones, Ofa and Val, in 1990-1991 which inflicted about $440
million damage, and later a taro blight. The economy rebounded during the
mid-1990's in part due to the restoration activities, reaching its pre-cyclone
level by 1996, when the per capita GNP was $1,200.     The economy is open, with
trade accounting for about 115w of GDP, but dominated by the primary sectors.
In spite of low growth of output, the country has healthy international
reserves, low deficit, moderate inflation, and a relatively stable exchange
rate.
2.      Sector Background.    The delivery of infrastructure and utility services
in Samoa is almost entirely within the public sector. There is an active
program for public sector reform and private sector growth, which includes
accountability and performance monitoring for line departments, devolution of
financial controls, and transformation of the state-owned enterprises to
achieve financially viable operations. The 1990-91 cyclone damage to
infrastructure was repaired with substantial donor assistance, including the
IDA Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project completed in 1997 which
reconstructed roads and bridges on Upolu and Savai'i, and initiated a road
safety program and institutional studies of PWD. The roads now need a
systematic basis for programming maintenance and improvements, including
obsolete bridges, and the rapid growth of road traffic and high accident rate



require intensification of the road safety program. Air transport has a vital
economic role in export-related sectors such as tourism and trade due to the
isolation of the country - Faleolo International Airport (FIA) had a major
upgrade in 1985, but further investment is now necessary to improve safety and
operational standards and marginally expand capacity to cope with full loads
and adverse conditions. Following the protection of coastal roads under the
restoration, several coastal communities are now demanding seawall protection,
however careful planning is required to adopt appropriate strategies which
minimize the disruption of natural coastal processes. Also, environmental
management and resource control needs strengthening and implementation of
draft regulations.
3.      Objectives.   The development objective of the Program is to ensure that
transport and coastal infrastructure assets are economically, environmentally
and socially sustainable and managed by an effective partnership of
stakeholders.  The aim of the first phase Project, IAM-1, is 'Meeting Vital
Priorities and Improving Management', and the objectives are: a) air transport
infrastructure is adequate and sustainable for national economic growth; b)
to improve the physical and financial management of air, road and coastal
infrastructure assets so as to achieve efficient use of scarce resources,
minimized future dependence on external support, and sustainable risk from
natural hazards; and c) to support public sector reform and increased private
sector participation in the provision of infrastructure.
4.      Description.    The project will comprise four components:
a.      Airport Infrastructure, upgrading the safety,
reliability and operational efficiency of Faeolo International Airport through
rehabilitation and extension of the runway, taxiway and apron pavements,
improvement of the terminal and control tower facilities, new emergency
equipment, and related services;
b.      Road Infrastructure Program, comprising
replacement of six bridges, road rehabilitation and safety works, construction
of pedestrian facilities, and expanded private sector participation;
c.      Coastal Infrastructure Management, including
development and pilot implementation of a coastal infrastructure management
strategy, aerial mapping and updating geographic knowledge base, and design
and construction of coastal protective works; and
d.      Institutional Strengthening, comprising: i) for
PWD, restructuring to improve business practices, achieve transition to role
of asset manager rather than provider of infrastructure, implement asset
management for roads, bridges and coastal structures, strengthen the private
sector and prepare a road sector plan; ii) for Treasury, develop protocols
for asset and information management; iii) for Transport Control Board,
improvement of road vehicle and traffic administration, and road safety; iv)
for Dept of Lands, Surveys and Environment, strengthening and analysis of
reform options;. and v) for SAA, improvement of business processes, including
financial management.
5.      Cost and Financing.    Total costs of the three-year project are
estimated to be USD 18.8 million, comprising an IDA credit of USD 14.4 m, an
AusAID grant of USD 1.3 m, and counterpart funding of USD 3.1 million.
- 2 -



6.      Implementation.    The project will be implemented over a three-year
period from early 1999 to mid-2002, under the direction of the IAM Program
Steering Committee, chaired by the Treasury Department, and under the
management of a Project Management Unit. The main procurement actions
include:
a.      Al. Airport paving works ($2.5 m); A2. Airport structural works ($2.2
m); A3. Emergency equipment ($1.2 m); A4. Design and supervision services
($0.6 m) [all International].
b.      B1. Bridge replacement works and services, 15 packages ($2.7 m); B2.
Road rehabilitation works and services ($1.1 m); B3. Pedestrian facility works
and services ($0.2 m) [all National].
c.      Cl. Coastal, environmental and institutional services ($0.9 m); C2.
Aerial survey, mapping and GIS system, 2 packages ($0.5 m); C3. Coastal
protection works and services, 4 packages ($0.7 m) [Cl, C2 International, C3
National].
d.      Dl. PWD restructuring, road asset management and planning (services
$1.5 m, goods $0.2 m); D2. Asset and information management goods and services
($0.2 m); D3. Traffic administration and road safety goods and services ($0.3
m); D4. DLSE institutional services ($0.3 m); D5. SAA business improvement
services ($0.2 m).
7.      Project Sustainability.    Both the road and airport infrastructure
components have a high likelihood of being sustainable, with their future
preservation underpinned by the infrastructure asset management systems being
introduced, improved cost recovery and the performance budgeting system in
place. The institutional reforms proposed for PWD will be implemented
progressively during the two-phase Program with moderate likelihood of being
sustainable, and a higher likelihood if the Government maintains momentum in
its public sector reform program. Sustainability of the coastal management
strategy will be moderate to high, depending in part on the participation of
communities in regard to land-use provisions, extraction of natural materials,
and effectiveness of environmental management, which would be achieved through
a consultative framework and the new environmental regulations.
8.      Lessons Learned from Past Bank Involvement.     Building on the highly
successful implementation of the Emergency Road Rehabilitation project, this
project will maintain a focus on infrastructure as a single sector, albeit
broader than the road subsector, and in direct support of the Government's
strategic objectives. While dealing with multiple subsectors, this avoids the
complexity of the multi-sector approach tried previously in 1986-94 which had
mixed results. Sound preparation, demonstrable economic viability, and
effective project supervision are key lessons to be reflected in the project
design and implementation.
9.      Poverty Category/Project Objective Categories.     The project supports
two main categories of the Bank's program:   participation (30%) and
environmentally sustainable development (60%), with an indirect impact on
poverty reduction.
10.     Environmental Aspects.   This is a Category B project with no expected
major adverse environmental impacts. Management of the coastal hazard zone is
- 3 -



expected to have positive environmental benefits where detrimental activities
such as sand-mining, inappropriate land reclamation and seawall construction
can be controlled through planning and strengthened environmental legislation
on impact assessment. All civil works under the project and future PWD
operations will be subject to a set of Codes of Environmental Practice for
civil works and services which are being introduced early in the project.
11.     Benefits.    Improvement to the airport facilities will improve the
reliability, efficiency and safety of operations at international standards
for the next 15 years, with benefits to tourism and international trade. Road
bridge preservation costs and user costs will be reduced, and both communities
and road users will benefit from reduced accidents and fatalities. Coastal
infrastructure will have improved resilience to natural disasters and the
potential for economic losses will be reduced through the coastal strategy.
Refocussing of PWD's role to core functions of policy and asset management
will make more efficient use of public funds, and concurrently stimulate
business opportunities and employment in the private sector.
12.     Risks.  Principal risks include:   i) delays in key issues for public
sector reform, such as employment, financial management and ministerial
powers; ii) interaction between traditional hierarchy and commercial
practices; iii) ineffective cooperation between departments on hazard-zone
planning, land-use and environmental management; and iv) major natural
disaster.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 19, 1999.
- 4-



Annex
Independent State of Samoa
Proposed Infrastructure Asset Management Project
Environmental Aspects
The environmental aspects of the proposed project concern mainly the coastal
infrastructure component, and are generally minor for the airport and road
components.
Since the two major cyclones, there has been substantial investment to protect
infrastructure in the coastal zones. However, at some locations, individual
activities such as inappropriate construction of seawalls, blockage of
drainage and flood systems, sand-mining, etc. are threatening the landscape
and natural coastal processes. These adverse activities cause distortion of
the erosion and sedimentation processes and in some storm events has led to
breach of the river banks or seawall structures and consequent loss of land
and endangerment of property. Beach replenishment schemes have had variable
performance under storm events. Under the project, the coastal hazard zones
will be mapped based on existing and new survey data, and a coastal hazard
zone strategy will be developed and implemented to control or limit damaging
activities and vulnerable land-uses. This is intended to preserve the natural
coastal processes to the extent possible consistent with the objective of
protecting infrastructure assets and to minimize the risk of economic losses
in a major storm event.
Environmental management needs to become more effective, which requires the
strengthening of environmental impact assessment and mitigation provisions,
and of the supporting legislation which is currently dispersed in various
statutes. New standard operating procedures for environmental management in
civil works (Codes of Environmental Practice) will be introduced during
project preparation and implemented for all civil works and services on all
public-financed works, including the airport and road project components. The
accessibility of environmental information will be enhanced through the
installation of a GIS-based information system to manage the environmental
data and studies which are currently dispersed and uncatalogued.
March 6, 1998
-5-



