Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3193 WSO
Development Credit Agreement
(Infrastructure Asset Management Project)
between
INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 21, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3193 WSO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 21, 1999, between INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated February 16, 1999, from 
the Borrower describing a program designed to ensure the safe, reliable and efficient 
operation of its key infrastructure assets and to improve the physical and financial 
management of those assets (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to 
the execution of the Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through a series of loans over a period of approximately 
eight years, to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
(D)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by Samoa Airport Authority 
(“SAA”) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to SAA a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; and 
Page  2
(E)
by agreement of even date herewith (the AusAID Grant Agreement), the 
Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID) has agreed to make a grant to 
the Borrower (the AusAID Grant) in an aggregate principal amount of AUD 2,300,000 to 
assist in financing Part D.1 of the Project; and 
(F)
The Government of Australia (Australia) and the Association have entered 
into an agreement of even date herewith (Administration Agreement) pursuant to the 
Cofinancing, Technical Assistance and Consultant Trust Fund Framework Agreement dated 
May 29, 1996 among Australia, the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development and the Association, making arrangements for the Association to process 
applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided by AusAID 
and the Association and regulating certain other matters of common interest in 
connection with such financing;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and SAA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.  ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets 
the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of 
the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.” 
(c)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution and 
initial operation of the Project, its cost 
and the benefits derived and to be 
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their 
respective obligations under the Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms wherever used in this 
Agreement have the following meanings:
Page  3
(a)
“DLSE” means the Borrower’s Department of Lands, Surveys and Environment 
and any successor thereto.
(b)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit to be established and maintained 
under contract to the Treasury Department with responsibility for oversight of project 
implementation in accordance with Paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(c)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and SAA 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
(d)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(e)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
April 8, 1998 and April 16, 1998 between the Borrower and the Association. 
(f)
"PWD" means the Borrower’s Public Works Department, and any successor 
thereto. 
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
(h)
"Steering Committee" means the Committee established and operating by 
directive of the Financial Secretary dated November, 1997 and to be maintained 
pursuant to Paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(i)
"Statutes" means the Airport Authority Act of 1984, as amended to the 
date of this Agreement; and
(j)
"Sub-projects" means the specific road infrastructure rehabilitation 
projects to be carried out under Part B of the Project and coastal zone infrastructure 
projects to be carried out under Part C of the Project, and "Sub-project" means any 
one of the Sub-projects; 
(k)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the 
Borrower and SAA. pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time; and
(l)
"TCB" means the Borrower’s Transport Control Board. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ten million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 10,300,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
Page  4
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2009 and ending February 1, 2039.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2019 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
Page  5
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall, through PWD, carry out Parts B, C.3, D.1 and D.2 of the 
Project; 
through DLSE, carry out Parts C.1, C.2 and D.4 of the 
Project; through TCB, 
carry out Part D.3 of the Project; and through 
the Treasury Department, carry 
out Part E of the Project, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices and shall 
provide, or cause to 
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and 
other resources required for said Parts of the Project; and 
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under 
the Credit Agreement, shall cause SAA to carry out 
Parts A and D.5 of the 
Project, to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all of its obligations 
therein set forth, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, environmental, and technical practices, and shall take or cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable SAA to perform 
such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) 
For the purposes of Parts A and D.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Categories 1(a), 
2(a), and 3(a) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to SAA 
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SAA (the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement) under terms and conditions which shall have been approved 
by the Association.  Except as the  Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and 
conditions shall include the following:
(i) 
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be repaid by SAA 
in local 
currency to the Borrower in equal semi-annual installments 
over thirty years, 
including a grace period of five years; 
(ii) 
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan repayable by SAA shall 
be the 
equivalent in local currency (determined as of the 
date, or respective dates, 
of withdrawal) of the value of the 
currency or currencies withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in respect 
of the above-mentioned categories;
(iii)  interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of the 
subsidiary loan at 
a rate equal to five percent (5%); and 
(iv) 
a foreign exchange risk fee shall be charged on the outstanding 
balance of the 
subsidiary loan at a rate equal to one percent (1%).
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Page  6
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the 
Project shall be carried out by SAA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Program’s 
objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
Have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
Furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit    
Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
Retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(ii)
Ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a)  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
Page  7
this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to 
the Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the 
Project in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2001 or such later 
date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A)  sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
(b)
SAA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that SAA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 
the Borrower 
to withdraw the proceeds of the AusAID Grant or any other 
grant or loan made 
to the Borrower for the financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the 
agreement providing 
therefor, or (B) any such loan shall have become due and 
payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement;
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a) 
that any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days (60) after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; 
Page  8
(b) 
that the event specified in paragraph (d)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d)(ii) of that Section; 
(c)
that the events specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) shall occur.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
that the PMU shall have been established, its Project manager and Project 
accountant appointed, and a Project accounting system satisfactory to the Association 
shall have become operational, in accordance with Paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;  
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and SAA; and 
(c)
that the AusAID Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Credit Agreement, have 
been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by SAA, 
and is legally binding upon SAA in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Borrower and SAA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SAA in accordance 
with its terms. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Treasury Department
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box Private Bag
Apia, Samoa
Cable address: 
Telex:
233 TREASURY SX
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  9
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA
By /s/ Tuiloma Neroni Slade 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Klaus Rohland
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the AusAID Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit and the AusAID Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of
Amount of
The AusAID
the Credit
  Grant
Allocated
Allocated
   % of
     (Expressed in
     (Expressed in
Expenditures
  SDR
   AUD
   to be
Category
Equivalent)
Equivalent)
  Financed
(1)(a) Works under
 2,300,000
70%
Part A of the
Project
   (b) Works under
 2,100,000
70%
Parts B & C
of the Project
(2)(a) Goods and
   900,000
)100% of foreign
vehicles
)expenditures, 100% 
of
under Part A
)local expenditures 
(ex-
of the Project
)factory cost) and 
80%
)of local 
expenditures
   (b) Goods under
   700,000
)for other items 
procured
Parts C &
)locally
D(1)-(4) of
)
the Project
)
Page  10
(3)(a) Consultants'
   600,000
100%
Services
under Parts A
and D.5 of
the Project
   (b) Consultants'
 1,900,000
100%
Services
under Parts B,
C, D(2)-(4)
and E of the
Project
   (c) Consultants'
2,300,000
85%
Services
under Part
D.1 of the
Project
(4)
Refunding
  300,000
Amounts due
Project
Pursuant to
Preparation
Section 2.20 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
1,300,000
TOTAL
      10,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower ; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
1,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after July 1, 1998. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent, and for works under contracts costing less than 
$1,000,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) ensure the safe, reliable and 
efficient operation of the Borrower’s international airport at Faleolo; (ii) improve 
the management of air, road and coastal infrastructure in order to ensure the 
efficient and safe operation of the Borrower’s transport system, and to limit damage 
to the coastal zone and associated infrastructure; (iii) support public sector reform 
and increased private sector participation in the provision of infrastructure; and 
(iv) strengthen the environmental management of infrastructure activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Airport Infrastructure 
Page  11
Upgrading the safety, reliability, capacity and operational efficiency of 
Faleolo International Airport, including rehabilitation and extension of the runway, 
taxiway and apron, construction of seawall protection, drainage works, recabling of 
lights, improvement of terminal, control tower and fire station facilities, and 
provision of fire emergency vehicles.
Part B:
Road System Infrastructure 
Carrying out a program of specific rehabilitation projects to upgrade the 
Borrower’s road transport system, through replacement of obsolete bridges on primary 
roads, rehabilitation or upgrading of primary roads, and construction of road safety 
and pedestrian facilities.
Part C:
Coastal Infrastructure 
(1)
Development and introduction of a strategy for managing coastal infrastructure 
and improving related environmental management;  
(2)
Updating of the geographic knowledge base; and
(3)
Carrying out a pilot program of specific investment projects for coastal 
protection in participating communities. 
Part D:
Institutional Development
Development and implementation of a program to reform the institutions for the 
provision of public infrastructure through: 
(1)
 the restructuring of PWD, strengthening of the private sector, implementation 
of asset management systems, preparation of a road development plan, and appraisal of 
priority subprojects; 
(2)
development of asset and information management protocols and systems; 
(3)
 implementation of a traffic and road safety action plan;  
(4)
analyzing institutional reform options for DLSE; and 
(5) 
 institutional strengthening and capacity building of the SAA.
Part E:
Program Management 
Strengthening PMU’s capacity for managing the implementation of the Project, 
through provision of consultants’ services and equipment for the PMU, and preparation 
of the second phase of the Program. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines) and (b) the following provisions of this 
Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
Page  12
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for each contract for works estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or 
more shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 
2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods  
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods (other than specialized asset management equipment and software) estimated 
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $300,000, and works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,600,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Limited International Bidding
Specialized asset management equipment and software estimated to cost less than 
$150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed  $300,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.2 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review  
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more; each contract for goods to be awarded by limited international 
bidding; each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or 
more; and the first two contracts for works to be awarded by national competitive 
bidding procedures each year, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  13
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) subject to the 
modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant 
Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Single Source Selection.
Services for the minor airports study of SAA under Part D.5 of the Project, may, 
with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants.
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  14
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee consisting of 
representatives from DLSE, PWD, SAA, TCB and the Treasury Department, with 
organization and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to monitor the 
progress of the Project and to coordinate its components.
(b)
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain the PMU headed by a 
Project manager with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, 
assisted by an accountant with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association and such other competent staff in adequate numbers having such functions, 
responsibilities, funds and other facilities as shall be required to enable the PMU to 
undertake the overall supervision and monitoring of the Project.
2.
Within two months of the commencement of works for improvement of the terminal 
facilities at Faleolo Airport, the Borrower shall cause SAA to increase the departure 
fee to not less than 30 Samoan Talas per passenger. 
3.
(a)
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall select Sub-projects which are technically and environmentally viable, 
and economically justified.
(b)  
Sub-project proposals under Part B of the Project are required to meet 
criteria agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
(c)
Sub-project proposals under Part C of the Project are required to meet 
the following criteria:
(i)
the Sub-project proposal has been publicly discussed among, and 
agreed to by, 
the inhabitants in the District where the coastal 
protection infrastructure is 
to be constructed;
 
(ii)   the proposed Sub-project is in compliance with coastal 
infrastructure 
management strategy and coastal protection 
infrastructure guidelines 
satisfactory to the Association; and
(iii)  a maintenance program for the works to be carried out under the 
Sub-project 
has been prepared in accordance with terms acceptable to the 
Association, 
which shall include assignment of maintenance 
responsibilities in the 
District, the preparation of training 
programs to strengthen the maintenance 
capabilities of the District, and 
the identification of available sources of 
financing to carry out 
such programs. 
(d)
Prior to their implementation, the Borrower shall ensure that all 
proposed Sub-projects under the Project are reviewed by the Land Board to determine 
their compliance with existing legislation and regulations of the Borrower.
(e)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PMU submits proposed Sub-projects to 
the Association for its approval, together with a compensation plan for any proposed 
acquisition of land and other assets required for such Sub-project. 
 (f)
Before carrying out any Sub-project, the Borrower shall obtain the 
Association’s approval thereon, and ensure that any approved compensation plan has 
been implemented.
4.
The Borrower declares its commitment to the sustainable environmental management 
of infrastructure assets constructed under the Program, and, to that end, shall ensure 
that:
(a) PWD and DLSE comply with environmental impact assessment procedures satisfactory 
to the Association in the design, procurement and implementation of:  
(i) 
all works carried out under contracts awarded after December 31, 
1999 pursuant 
to Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(ii) 
not less than 80% by value of all works carried out after June 30, 
2001 that 
are financed by PWD and DLSE; and 
Page  15
(b) 
(i)
by September 30, 1999, Codes of Environmental Practice for civil 
works and 
services, satisfactory to the Association, shall have 
been adopted by PWD, 
endorsed by DLSE and entered into 
effect; and 
(ii)
thereafter, design, procurement, and implementation of works and 
services 
under  the Program shall comply with such Codes.
5.
The Borrower shall endeavor, taking into account the prevailing macro-economic 
conditions, to ensure that adequate funding in PWD’s budget is allocated and 
programmed for preservation of road and bridge assets in each year of the Program, 
including:  
(i)
for periodic maintenance, amounts sufficient to provide for an 
average 
resurfacing cycle of not more that seven years on 
sealed main roads and of not 
more than ten years on sealed secondary 
roads;  
(ii)
for routine maintenance, on a 3-year rolling average basis, 
amounts equivalent 
to not less than the amount allocated in 1998, 
adjusted for inflation. 
6.
The Borrower shall, by March 31, 2000, prepare and furnish to the Association 
and AUSAid for comment recommendations, costed justifications and an action plan, for 
improved delivery of works and services by PWD, including recommendations concerning 
options for retention of works and services within PWD, contracting out, or 
privatization of such works and services, as well as asset leasing; and by December 
31, 2000, ensure that such recommendations, justifications and action plan, revised to 
take into account the Association’s and AusAID’s comments thereon, shall be furnished 
to its Cabinet for approval.
7.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 1, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by October 1, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1(a), 1(b), 2(a), 2(b), 
3(a), 3(b) and 3(c) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
Page  16
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR1,450,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
Page  17
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
