Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8525
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2430-IND)
APRIL 16, 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a rested distdbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
EXCHANGE RATES
1983     US$1     = Rp   994
1984     US$1     u Rp 1,074
1985     US$1     =  Rp 1,100
1986     US$1     = Rp 1,284
1987     US$1     - Rp 1,644
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia - April 1 - March 31
Bank of Indonesia       - April 1 - March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ASKRINDO             -   Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation
BI                   -   Bank Indonesia
BRI                  -   Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CPMU                 -   Central Project Management 'Unit
GOI                  -   Government of Indonesia
HBs                  -   Handling Banks
KIK                  -   Small Investment Credit
KMKP                 -   Small Permanent Working Capital Credit
LPPI                 -   Indonesian Banking Development Institute
MIS                  -  Management Information System
PCR                  -   Project Completion Report
RPMUs                -   Regional Project Management Units
SEDP                 -   Small Enterprise Development Project
SPID                 -   Special Project Identification
SSE                  -   Small-Scale Enterprises



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORI,D BANKt
Washmgton. D.C. 20433
U.SA.
041K. 01Ott(VIlf
April 16, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia Third Small Enter-
prise Development Project (Loan 2430-IND)
Attached, for information, is a sopy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Indonesia Third Small Enterprise Development Project
(Loan 2430-IND)," prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a fesuicted distnbution and may be used by tec ipnts only in the perfomance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwis be die4se whbxut World Bankc autbofiation.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2430-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ................................. *................. i.
Ayuluation. SuMMMaXYtA.#4,&*-I-I I I.... . ..   * ........    . ..... ........iii
PART I ................................................... 1...........
Project Identity .               . ..... ... . ... ......                    1
Background  ..* .....................................................
The Bank's Strategy and Project Rationale ........................ .         2
Project Objectives and Description                  ..            ..   2
Project Design and Organization                   ... .                      3
Project Performance             . . .. .      .... .            ...... .     4
Credit Operation ..... . ... .......   .       ................      4
Interest Rate      ..... .... ...........................          4
Credit Insurance          .................            .....    5
Financing Working Capital      ........ ................           5
Refinancing of KIK/KMRP Loans ..........................           6
Arrears and the MIS ......... ... .... ...... ...............     e
Project Management          ...               .................... .  6
Technical Assistance .......                   .....      .......     7
Bank and Borrower Performance ... ............. . ...     . .        ....    .  7
Conclusions ......................................................... . ........ a
Epilogue:New SEDP           ........................ ........                9
PART    II ...... ..............................................................  10
Introduction ................................................................ 10
A Transition Period in SEDP Implementation ....................... .      10
Objectives and Expectations of the Bank .......................... .      12
Credit Operations ....     ..       ... .....                .    .       15
Review of KIK/KMRP Interest Rates and the Review of
ASKRINDO Operations .... ...................                           16
Management Information System (MIS)                .. . .    17
Bank and BI Performance                  ...... ....   17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaion.



Page No.
PART III - Statistical Information . .................                     s1
Table  ls Relat eded B   La      kLand/or Credits ...........................   19
Table  2s Project Timetable ............................................    20
Table  3s Loan Disbursements* Cumulatlve Estimated and Actual .......    21
Table  (s Status of Covenants .........................    22
Table  5s Use of Bank Resourcess  Missions ...........................    23
Table  6s Characteristics of Credit Schemes in Indonesia .............      24
Table  7:  Interest Rates on Deposits at Commercial Banks, 1983-88 ....    26
Table  8: Lending Rates by Economic Sectors ..........................      27
Table  9:  KIK and KNRP Loan Approvals by Sector, 1984-87 ..............    29
Table 10l  KIKIRMRP Margin Analysis ................................................. .   30
Table 11  ASRIND0 Cash Gains (Losses) from RIX and
MMP Program, 1983-88 .............................. ... . .    31
Table 12s  Summary of SEDP Consultant Manning, 1981-87 ....32
Table 13s  Consultant's Position as of December 31, 1984-87 .         .     33
Table 14:  Counterpart Intake per Bank and RPMU, 1984-87.... ....           37
Table 15:  Distribution of RPMU Time by Major Activity, 1984-87.......    38
Table 16:  SPID Reports per Sector, 1986 and 1987 ........... ....    40
Table 17:  SPID Implementation Rates, 19 8......                            41



- i -
INDONESIA
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2430-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Small
Enterprise Development Project (Loan 2430-IND) for which the amount of
US$204.6 million was approved on May 31, 1984. The loan was closed on
March 31, 1988. Disbursement under said loan was US$200.5 million with the
cancellation of the undisbursed balance of US$4.1 million. The last
disbursement was on October 3, 1988. The borrower was the Republic of
Indonesia which onlent the proceeds of the loan to BI and BRI.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations
Division, Country Department V, Asia Region.
Preparation of this PCR by the Bank is based on the Staff
Appraisal Report; the Loan and Project Agreements4 Bank supervision
reports; internal Bank memoranda; correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, BI and BRI (including progress reports submitted); and a
consultant's review done in February/March 1989.



- iii -X
INDONESIA
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2430-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.       The Bank loan of $204.65 million, aimed at supporting the development
of Indonesia's small-scale enterprises (SSEs) through the ongoing IKIKMKP
(small investment credit/permanent working capital credit) program, was
approved on May 31, 1984. It followed two previous credits/loans (Credit
785-IND and Loan 2011-IND), which were reviewed in a joint Project Completion
Report (PCR) in February 1988. Bank Indonesia (BI) was the executing agency
for all these three credits/loans. The delivery network of the KIKtKMRP pro-
gram consisted of approximately 1,000 branches of 75 handling banks (HBs).
2.       The main objectives of the Third Small Enterprise Development Project
(SED? III), according to its Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), weres (a) ro sup-
plemert BI's rediscount and HB's own financial resources for KIK/KMKP lending
so that SSEs could increase their capacity utilization; (b) to strengthen
administration of the KIK/KMKP program by:  (i) emphasizing improved project
management and monitoring at BI; (ii) improving project appraisal and supervi-
sion capabilities of HBs; and (iii) encouraging HBs to carry more of the
financial and institutional responsibilities of the KIKIKMKP prriram; and
(c) to improve the management and operations of Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI),
the largest participant in the KIK/KMKP program. Aside from these objectives,
the Bank viewed the project as a vehicle to bring about changes in the KIK/
XMRP program's subsidized interest rate to the final borrowers and overly-
generous credit insurance for the Handling Banks (HBs).   The project had two
main components: credit operation and technical assistance (including train-
ing and studies).
3.       SEDP III became the last project in a series initiated by the Bank in
1978 to help Indonesia's SSEs. Like its preaecessors, SEDP III also had mixed
results. The performance of its credit component, involving disbursement of
$192.3 million, was disappointing. Most of these funds, contrary to the
Bank's expectations, simply refinanced .xisting KIYKMKY  loans; therefore
SEDP III probably failed in its objective of channeling investment credit to
new SSEs, thereby creating thousands of jobs. The Bank's supervision was
lax ;. by the time it discovered the reason for very quick disbursement of
credit funds, the funds were already fully committed. As a result, the Bank
did not officially convey its concern to the Government of Indonesia (GOI).
To be sure, refinancing of existing KIK/KMKP loans was allowed under SEDP III,
but should not have been applied routinely.
4.       The credit component disappointed further, since, by and large, it
failed: (a) to reduce the amount of subsidy in the KIK/KMKP loans; (b) to
promote efficiency into the credit insurance system; (c) to improve the work-
ing capital loan approval and disbursement procedures; and (d) to strengthen
the management information system (MIS), thereby improving the quality of loan
portfolios under SEDP III. Thus, the cost of operating the KIK/KMKP program



- iv -
continued to be too high and, ultimately, unacceptable to the Bank. In retro-
spect, the Bank should have evaluated the feasibility of achieving the project
objectives more carefully before project negotiations in April 1984, with
hindsight, which did not achieve a meeting of minds of the two negotiating
parties on key issues of project design and objectives.
5.       On balance, notwithstanding inadequacies in designing and supervising
the TA component ($10.65 million), SEDP III led to two substantial and useful
studiess BRI's study of its management and operations, and the regional
planning management units' (RPMUs') study on their future role. Many recom-
mendations of these two studies have been implemented already, and the GOI is
currently implemen-ing a new SEDP program, although without the Bank's
involvement.
6.       From a broader perspective, howuver, the project had positive
aspects. For instance, SEDP III assisted the Bank to continue its policy
dialogue with the GOI in the areas of industrial and trade policies and finan-
cial reforms. It also had a positive effect on Indonesia's balance of pay-
ments. Moreover, important lessons were learned by both the Bank and GOI from
the experience of SEDP III in designing two new lending operations, neither of
vhiih incorporates subsidized interest rates. These operations, which replac-
ed the SEDP series, are: (a) KUPEDES: a project with BRI to supply very
small loans, approved in 1987; and (b) SMIE: a project to supply credit to
small and medium industry through 13 participating banks, approved in 1989.



INDONESIA
THRID SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2430-I*4D)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART? I
Projtect Identity
Project Name:  Third Small Enterprise Development Project
Loan No.    i  2430-IND
RVP Unit    : Asia Region
Country      t Indonesia
Sector      t Financial
Subsector   i  Small-Scale Enterprises (SSE)
Background
1.       The Indonesian economy and the financial sector grew rapidly during
the 1970s, buoyed by higher oil prices and public investment. As the level of
oil revenue increased. the Government of Indonesia (GOI) decided, for reasons
of employment creation and equity, to allocate a portion of oil earnings to
"economically weak" segments of the population. In January 1974, GOI intro-
duced the KIKIIOAK (small investment credit/permanent working capital credit)
program to provide institutional credit to small-scale enterprises (SSEs) from
all economic sectors throughout Indonesia (Tab-le 6). Prior to this program.
SSEs were essentially relying on expensive credits, often at interest rates of
35? to 502 per annum (p.a.), through the informal credit market. The KIKI/KMKP
program was a major step towards creation of thousands of jobs in the
Indonesian economy, which was facing a serious unemployment problem.
2.       Until 1983, the financial sector was tightly controlled by GOI, which
was channeling its savings into the banking system through low-interest liq-
uidity credits from Bank Indonesia (El), vhich set deposit and lending rates,
established credit ceilings, and guided credit allocation. El also employed
pervasive administrative controls and moral suasion to influence most aspects
of the banking system. The June 1983 reform package, inter alia, allowed the
banks to set their own deposit and lending rates and eliminated credit ceil-
ings. Moreover, GOI curtailed or eliminated many priority lending programs
operating at subsidized interest rates, but it retained the KIKIKMKP program.
3.       Even settiaig aside important noneconomic (socio-political) considera-
tions, an apparent (b~ut illusory) economic rationale for retaining the
KIK/KMKP program is easy to find. By June 1983, this program had served more
than 1.75 million SSEs with a cumulative loan amount of almost Rp 2,500
billion, and had pervaded the entire institutional credit system for SSEs in
Indonesia. In 1980, Indonesia is estimated to have had about 27 million SSEs,
employing approximately 80? of total labor iorce. SSEs were especially pre-
dominant in agriculture, and wholesale and retail trade, which together pro-
vided around two-thirds of the jobs, but SSEs were also a major source of
employment in mining and quarrying, manufacturing, construction, and road
transport. Although the share of SSEs in total employment in Indonesia is
likely to decline in the future, they will continue to provide jobs to a
significant number of newcomers to the labor force, and hence, the need for a
program to support SSEs will continue.



The Bank's Strategy and Prolect Rationale
4.       Since 1983, the Bank's strategy in Indonesia has been to support
adjustment of the economy to lower oil revenues by maintaining macroeconomic
stability and transition from oil dependency to a more diversified and indus-
trialized economy. In the industrial sector, the strategy has had two major
components: (a) fostering GOI's efforts to deregulate trade, industry and
finance, and to establish appropriate incentives for efficient industrial
growth; and (b) providing technical and financial assistance to enhance
sectoral and subsectoral supply responses to changed incentives.
5.       .v the mid-1970s, the Bank and other development aid institutions had
recognized the potential of SSEs for employment creation, entrepreneurship
development, economic growth, income distribution, regional dispersal of
investment and expansion of local markets.  Since the KIKIKMKP program had
similar objectives, it was logical for the Bank to support it, particularly as
a launching pad to introduce a number of refinements necessary to ensure the
program's cost effectiveness, economic efficiency, financial viability and
long-term sustainability. Following its support for the SEDP I and SEDP II
projects,l/ the Bank undertook SEDP III not only as a 'top up* lending opera-
tion but also with the expectation that continuation of the financial support
to the development of SSEs through the KIK/KMKP program would enable the Bank
and GOI to introduce essential reforms in the program management, its cost
effectiveness and long-term sustainability. However, the IKR/XMRP program
continued to be plagued with problems, and little progress was made in resolv-
ing KIK/KMXP program's longstanding problems of subsidized interest rates,
unsatisfactory management, inadequate supervision, low collection rates and
overly-generous credit insurance. Hence, the Bank terminated its support for
the KIKIKMKP program with the completion of the SEDP III project.
Proiect Obiectives and DescriRtion
6.       The main objectives, according to the Staff Aprtaisal Report (SAR),
weres (a) to supplement BI's rediscount and the handling bank's (HB's) own
financial resources for KIK/KMKP lending so that SSEs could increase their
capacity utilization; (b) to strengthen administration of the KIK/KMRP program
by: (i) emphasizing improved project management and monitoring at BI;
(ii) improving project appraisal and supervision capabilities of HBs; and
(iii) encouraging HBs to carry more of the financial and institutional respon-
sibilities of the KIK/KMKP program; and (c) to improve the management and
operations of Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), the largest participant in the
KIKIKMRP program.
7.       The project had two components:
(a) Credit. This component was designed to supplement the financial
resources required Dy the KIK/IKMKP program over the three years,
1985-87; in contrast to SEDP I and II, KMKP was also financed under
SEDP III (para. 14); and
l/ See the Project Completion Report (PCR) on SEDP I and II projects,
February 1988.



(b) Technical Assistance (TA). This component was designedt (i) to
strengthen BI and HBs in their administration, implementation and
monitoring of the KIXIKMKP program; (ii) to imp&ove the operational
efficiency of BRI; and (iii) to undertake selected studies and
surveys with the objective of strengthening the SSE data base and
thereby improving the KIIK/KKP program's management and operations.
Proiect Design and Organization
8.       The ItIK/KMKP program was administered by BI and implemented by state
commercial banks, national and regional development banks, and private
national banks, collectively known as 'handling banks'. BI provided policy
direction, program monitoring, and rediscounting. HBs appraised and supervis-
ed the KIK/KMKP loans, which were then rediscounted by BI. BI administered
the program at two levels: (a) at its head office, the Central Project
Management Unit (CPMU) provided overall administration and monitoring; and
(b) at its regional offices, the Regional Project Management Units (RPMUs)
provided TA to HBs, particularly in designing and installing the management
information system (MIS) for monitoring and supervising clients, analyzing and
recording arrears, and impiementing procedural reforms. In addition to the
advisors attached to the CPMU, the RPMUs also depended on both expatriate and
local consultants, though the dependence declined over time (Tables 12 and
13). BI was to assign its staff to work closely with the CPM *dvisors so
that its dependence on consultants would have been reduced; for the RPMUs,
that dependence was expected to continue beyond 1987.
9.       Under SEDP III, BI had agreed with the Bank to assume a more active
role in institutional development that required direct contact with the HBs:
at the branch level, to identify problems and, at the head office level, to
develop solutions to those problems. In response to the Bank's request, BI
updated its Policy and Strategy Statement concerning the KIK/KMKP program,
modified the development strategy for 1984-87, and adopted it before the loan
was presented to the IBRD Board. This statement focused on improving the
quality of the KIKIKMKP loan portfolio through improved lending procedures,
strengthened MIS, and systematic follow-up of borrowers. In this context, BI
also agreed to help in improving the loan appraisal and supervision capabili-
ties, especially of the weaker HBs, and to provide TA to the HBs through staff
training and development of statistical information (SEDP III Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR), Annex 4).
10.      All productive activities in agriculture, industry, trade, transpor-
tation, and services were eligible for the KIKIKKKP financing, except for some
*saturated subsectors.0 The retail and wholesale trade sector was the domi-
nant user of both the KIK and KMKP loans; about 40Z of the KIK funds and about
702 of the KMKP funds were used by the trade sector during 1984-87. BI pro-
vided 552 of the funds at highly subsidized, low (3.02 p.a.) interest rate,
and 252 at 10.1Z p.a. (out of the SEDP III credit); the remaining 202 was
provided by the HBs out of their own resources. Thus, the cost of funds was
6.5? to 7.0?, while the lending rate was 12.0?. The maximum maturity for KIK
loans was eight years, including a maximum grace period of four years. KMKP
loans, which the Bank financed for the first time, continued to be approved on
a line of credit basis, having a maximum maturity of five years, including a
maximum grace period of one year. The credit ceiling was Rp 15 million



-4-
(appr,...   ely US$13,000) under each type of loan.  According to the SAR, the
KIK/KKKP program had three features that would have ensured HBs' support:
(a) the liberal guarantee coverage provided by the Indonesian Credit Guarantee
Corporation (ASKRINDO); (b) the major part of resources provided by BI at low
interest rate; and (c) the interest rate subsidy provided by the GOI. Yet,
most BBs encountered losses or at best had insignificant returns from the
program, mainly because of the high administrative Costs associated with the
small size of loans (average size of a loan approved in 1985 and 1986 was
Rp 3,100 million ($2,700) and poor loan collection rates (Table 10).
Project Performance
Credit Opforation
I1.      During the three yearn (1985-87) when most of the SEDP III funds were
disbursed, the project's credit component of $194 million supplied approxi-
mately 14Z of the total KIKIKMKP loans approved. WhIle these funds shared
about 82 of the total approvals in the first and third years, the share during
the second year had climbed to about 252. From the very beginning, the credit
amount under SEDP III was disbursed ahead of the appraisal estimate: $42
million against the estimate of $25 million during the first seven months,
followed by $141 million against a forecast of $85 million during the next
year (Table 3).  Thus, over 80? of the credit amount was disbursed during the
first 18 months, leaving only 202 for the remaining 18 months. Although the
credit component constituted 95Z of the total loan amount, quick disbursement
of itself is not the best indicator of a project's overall performance.
Actually, the available information suggests that a substantial portion of the
credit amount, contrary to the Bank's expectations, was used to refinance
existing KIK/KMKP loans and, therefore, might not have contributed much
towards job creation. Project performance on the main issues involved is
analyzed below.
12.      Interest Rate.  Although use of highly subsidized interest rates in
the KIKR/RMP program was a concern in the Bank from the very beginning of the
SEDP program, the Bank did not vigorously pursue the interest rate issue under
SEDP I and SEDP II. Having gained considerable experience in operations of
the SEDP program in Indonesia, and recognizing both the significance of
Indonesia's 1983 financial reforms and the budgetary constraints arising from
a substantial fall in the oil revenue, the Bank assigned a high priority to
the interest rate issue under SEDP III. The Bank adopted a realistic approach
in persuading the GOI and BI gradually to move away from the highly subsidized
Interest rate to a more sustainable, market-oriented rate. The GOI responded
by taking two initial steps: (a) it provided an explicit budget subsidy of
1.5? p.a. on KIKIKMKP loans to allow the HBs to earn an adequate return; and
(b) it agreed to review with BI the appropriateness of KIKIRMKP interest rates
and to furnish a report of the review to the Bank by March 31, 1985 and
annually thereafter. The Bank actually received only one such report. Since
the HBs' deposit rates (14.0? p.a. to 19.0 p.a. on two-year time deposits
since 1986) far exceeded the KIKIKMKP lending rate of 12Z p.a., the possibili-
ties for significant diversion of KIKIKMKP loans were obvious (Table 7).
Further, despite the subsidy, most HBs still had inadequate margins and they
did not make strong efforts to collect loans, relying instead on the ASKRINDO
insurance to recover loans in arrears (Table 10). The GOI favored neither the



Bank's nor BI's suggestions for increasing the KIKIKMKP interest rate, and
continued the program at a very high cost to the national exchequer because it
assigned a higher priority to distributional aspects of the credit program.
13.      Credit Insu-ance.  In order to encourage lending to SSEs, KIK/MRKP
loans are insured by ASKRINDO. In return for the insurance coverage of up to
75? of the loan amount, until recently ASKRINDO was mostly receiving a one-
time premium of 32, which was paid in equal shares by the HBs and BI. Since
1983, ASKRINDO started incurring heavy losses in operating the KIKIKMKP pro-
gramt cash losses of Rp 14 billion ($14 million) in 1983, and over Rp 70 bil-
lion ($63 to 55 million) in 1985 and 1986. The GOI felt that these losses
resulted from a rapid expansion of the RIK/KMKP program, but the Bank con-
sideredt (a) the premium to be too low in relation to the risk involved; and
(b) the insurance coverage to be too generous, eroding the incentive for the
HUs to improve their arrears collection efforts. The GOI's desire to ensure
that ASKRINDO should operate on a self sustaining basis led to its agreement
with the Bank under SEDP III to review ASKRINDO's operations, financial struc-
ture, management and development strategy, and to furnish the Bank withs
(i) the recommendations of the review for comments; and (ii) an action program
for implementing the recommendations by December 1984 (Section 3.02 in Article
III of the Loan Agreement). Although the Bank did not receive any review
report or action program, changes were subsequently introduced to ASKRINDO.
The insurance premium was raised from 32 to 62 and the coverage was reduced
from 75Z to 702; these changes undoubtedly helped to turn the earlier years'
cash losses into a gain of Rp 14.6 billion ($8.7 million) in 1988 (Table 11).
However, the 702 coverage is still too high, and the increased premium is paid
by BI and not by the HBs. Thus, these changes are unlikely to foster
efficiency into the system, and may merely transfer ASKRINDO's losses to Bl.
14.      Financing Working Capital.  The Bank decided under SEDP III to
finance working capital (KMKP) loans, mainly due to then prevailing tight
monetary conditions and slow economic recovery in Indonesia. As a result of
these conditions together with the historical trend and ease in processing the
1MKP loans, a major part (almost 80X) of the funds was used by the XMKP loans
and only about 20S was used by the RIK loans. Since working capital loans
usually are approved as a line of credit, unlike fixed investment loans, which
usually are approved against a specific procurement proposal, the Bank wanted
to ensure that the funds were not misdirected and were used cost-effectively.
As required by the loan effectiveness conditions, BI introduced the HBs to
revised KWKP loan appraisal and disbursement procedures through a circular
letter in July 1984. These procedures included evaluations of borrowers'
creditworthiness, financing and procurement plans, sales projections, amor-
tization schedules, and guidelines for repayment and rescheduling of KMKP
loans. These instructions, however, were not universally implementAd and
their effectiveness varied significantly among the 1,000 branches of the 75
HBs. Moreover, BI had also agreed to a post-disbursement review of the M4KP
loans, the results of which became available to the Bank in February 1986
(instead of September 1985), by which time the entire credit component was
committed (by December 1985). The Bank's supervision was sporadic; the fourth
mission (February 1986) provided the first notice that BI's revised guidelines
for processing the KMKP loans, issued in July 1984, were not followed by many
HBs (Table 5). Having realized it so late, the Bank did not formally pursue
the issue with the GOI since the funds were already fully committed.



- 6 -
15.      Refinancing of KIK/KMKP Loans.  Under SEDP III, refinancing of the
existing KIK/KMKP loans was not to be routinely applied; but partly due to lax
supervision of the project, the Bank realized only in February 1986 that the
much faster pace of loan disbursements than estimated in the SAR seemed to
have been largely a result of refinancing (rollovers) of existing KIK/KMKP
loans. The "Final Report: Portfolio Reviewl (November 1985) and 'KMKPS
Post-disbursement Review Report" (February 1986) prepared by SI specifically
noted that renewals seemed to account for the increase in approvals, the Bank
mission estimated that refinancing (rollovers) might have been responsible for
as much as 75Z of the total approvals under SEDP III since July 1, 1984.
Although the SSEs were not direct beneficiaries of the refinancing, the HBs
must have been, because their share in new loans was reduced from 252 to 202
and the new loans included a 1.52 p.a. interest rate subsidy from the GOI.
Guided by considerations of the Bank-country relationship and recognizing its
inability to influence the course of action since the loan was already fully
committed, the Bank conveyed its concern to the GOI through high level staff
discussions, and strongly indicated to the GOI and BI that it would not con-
sider a further loan in support of the KIKIKMKP program.
16.      Arrears and the MIS.  Proper portfolio management and control of
arrears, usually more complex in small credit programs, continued to be major
concerns. Under SEDP II, BI had developed a preliminary MIS for monitoring
the KIK/KMKP lending operations and introduced it in 1983. Under SEDP III, BI
agreed with the Bank on the format and scope for upgrading the MIS, including
provision for information on the age of arrears. Further, BI agreeds (a) to
evaluate its existing MIS and furnish the recommendations to the Bank by
October 31, 1984; (b) to establish the revised MIS by March 31, 1985; and
(c) to cause the HBs to establish an appropriate arrears data collection
system for the KIK/KMKP program by March 31, 1985. The recommendations of the
evaluation, furnished to the Bank in March 1985, provided an excellent
analysis of the existing system's weaknesses and offered many suggestions for
its improvement. Progress in implementing the upgraded MIS, however, remained
very slow. Moreover, for this PCR, BI was unable to provide data on the
KIK/IKMKP portfolios, although there are some indications that the deteriora-
tion of the portfolio might have been reversed beginning in 1987.
17.      Project Management.  The Bank's expectations of substantial progress
in project management of SEDP III did not materializes the CPMU could have
improved its effectiveness by streamlining its administrative procedures, and
focusing on monitoring the KIK/KMXP program (see paras. 14-16). Further,
under SEDP III, the role of the RPMUs was to change from preparing promotional
material (such as the Special Project Identification (SPID) reports) to help-
ing the HBs to improve the quality of their KIK/KMKP portfolios.  But the
RPHUs' involvement in preparing SPID reports remained unabated (Tables 15 and
16). Somewhat surprisingly, almost 602 of the projects identified in SPID
reports were implemented by SSEs, indicating that these reports, contrary to
the Bank's expectations, were serving a real need (Table 17). Another
achievement of RPMUs was the training of 378 counterpart staff from the HBs
during 1985-87 (Table 14). Because the change in emphasis of the RPMUs was
too slow, BI and the Bank agreed to study their future role. This study,
completed by the consultants in February 1987, made a number of recommenda-
tions, presented in four basic scenarios for BI's consideration. The recom-
mendations include phasing out BI in the provision of TA to SSEs, introducing



-7-
a rigorous process of accreditation for the HBs to serve SSEs, limiting the
number of HBs and promoting specialization among then., and replacing the
existing SEDP by a new SEDP program. BI has implemented some of these recom-
mendations and is now implementing a new SEDP program without the Bank's
involvement.
Technical Assistance
18.      Almost half of the estimated cost of the TA component ($27.65
million) under SEDP III was to provide advisory services on development bank-
ing to the RPMUs in 13 regions. In addition, management advisory services
were to be provided to the CPMU and training consultants to the Indoneaian
Banking Development Institute (LPPI). Due to deficiencies in the supervision
of the TA component, the Bank is uncertain whether the substantial decline in
the consultancy services (both the foreign as well as local experts) since
1983 reflects an enrichment of the in-house capabilities of CPWJ and RPMUs or
a loss of interest in hring consultants (Tables 12 and 13). Almost a quarter
of the loan amount approved for the TA, training and studies ($2.47 million)
was cancelled, although the TA to BRI to evaluate its management, administra-
tion and lending operations absorbed $2.50 million, instead of the estimated
$1.75 million. Bank supervision missions had informal discussions on various
aspects of the BRI study with its management and the consultants. But the
study continued beyond the closing date of SEDP III. Several other studies
were to be conducted under SEDP III, they were either delayed or not conducted
at all (Table 4). For example, the study on the economic impact of the
KIKIMWRP program, and the study to review various TA mechanisms as well as
government policies concerning the SSE sector, were not conducted. Effective-
ness of the TA funds would have been enhanced, if SEDP III had established
mechanisms to coordinates (a) the IBRD funds of $10.14 million with other aid
donors' funding of $7.85 million; and (b) the TA activities of various imple-
menting agencies. Nothwithstanding these inadequacies, which reflect problems
in project design, SEDP III led to two substantial and useful studies: BRI's
study, and a study on the future role of RPMUs (paras. 17 and 20).
Bank and Borrower Performance
19.      The Bank's performance was unsatisfactory:  the project design was
faulty, the supervision was sporadic, and management's strong support of its
supervision missions was missing. Some reasons why the Bank's supervision was
inadequate, were: (a) the SEDP III Project Officer was frequently reassigned;
(b) evaluation of disbursement requests was deficient; and (c) the TA com-
ponent was so poorly designed that it was almost impossible to supervise it
effectively. Given the mixed experience of SEDP I and SEDP II, key project
issues were identified and deliberated in the Bank and were reflected
adequately in the project objectives. The Bank's attention, however, focussed
largely on implementing the credit component; the TA component received much
less attention. The problems in credit operations, institution building and
policy reforms were so overwhelming that their resolution required more
resources and greater direct attention of the Bank's management than were
available. With hindsight, complexities involved in implementing the agree-
ments and understandings reached at negotiations suggest that there was no
real meeting of minds among the negotiating teaws. In particular, BI faced



- 8 -
the tremendous task of strengthening its managerial, supervisory and monitor-
ing capabilities, and of ensuring effective implementation of the project by
75 HBs and their 1,000 branches. In retrospect, the Bank and the GOI (includ.
ing BI) essentially failed to realize fully the operational and practical
implications of all these agreements, even while they were agreeing to them.
Having gained substantial experience in supporting SSEs by 1984, the Bank
should not have undertaken SEDP III project as a "top up, lending operation
over SEDP I and SEDP II that had at best mixed results. From the GOI's per-
spective, compelling socio-political considerations led to extremely difficult
choices between the long-term sustainability of the KIK/KMKP program requiring
fiscal discipline, and associated changes in interest rates and insurance
coverage, and short-term gains to Indouaesia's SSEs and their 'economically
weak' entrepreneurs.
Conclusions
20.      The SEDP III was the last in a series of projects initiated by the
Bank in 1978 to help Indonesia's SSEs. Like its predecessors, SEDP III also
had mixed results. Since the credit funds were largely used to refinance
existing KIK/XMRP loans, the project probably had limited success in stimulat-
ing the flow of investment credit to SSEs and, thereby, generating thousands
of jobs. On balance, helping BRI to complete a major study of its management,
administration and lending operations was a significant achievement. More-
over, the study on the future role of RPMUs has proved useful. But the cost
of operating the KIK/KMKP program, through which the credit operations were
undertaken, continued to be too high and, ultimately, unacceptable to the
Bank. The Bank had expected that it would be able: (a) to influence GOI's
lending policies towards the SSEs; and (b) to contribute to strengthening the
institutional infrastructure, required to guide and implement the KIK/KMKP
program. It was expected that these objectives would be achieved if the
following main covenants were attached to a relatively large credit operations
(a) an annual review of the KIKIKOKP lending rates and a gradual elimination
of highly subsidized interest rates; (b) establishing an improved MIS and
improving the quality of the KIKIKMKP portfolios; (c) conducting a review of
ASKRINDO and making it self-sustaining without subsidy; (d) continuation of
the economic impact studies, inter alia, to assess the cost effectiveness of
the KIK/KMKP program; and (e) studying various TA delivery mechanisms and
government policies for the SSE sector.   The project's achievements in terms
of such spacific objectives were minimal, and, hence, the termination of the
Bank's support for the KIK/KMKP program seems justified.
21.      Notwithstanding this position to achieve the Bank's specific goals,
from a broader perspective, there were certain achievements. For example,
SEDP III assisted the Bank in continuing its policy dialogue with the GOI in
the areas of industrial and trade policies and financial reforms; the project
also somewhat helped Indonesia's balance of payments. Moreover, important
lessons were learned from the experience of SEDP III in designing new lending
operations, as apparent from the introduction of two new types of projects in
Indonesia, neither of which incorporates subsidized interest rates. These
lending operations are: (a) KUPEDES: a project with BRI to supply very small
loans, approved by the Bank in 1987; and (b) SMIE: a project to supply credit
to small and medium industry through 13 participating banks, approved by the
Bank in April 1989 (Table 1). Finally, BI also undertook many steps to
redesign the SEDP program, as explained below.



- 9 -
Epilogue; New SEDP
22.      After the Bank's withdrawal from the SEDP program in October 1988, DI
enacted a series of changes in the SEDP (now called the new SEDP) program,
partly based on the alternatives developed in the study of the future role of
the RPMUs. These changes include: (a) reducing the counterpart training
course from one year to six months; (b) reducing the RPMUs manning from five
to three; and (c) refocusing the RPMUs' work program to spend less time on the
SPID reports (para. 17) and more time on resolving the HBs' portfolio prob-
lems. Moreover, BI is now providing funds to the HBs on a line of credit
basis instead of the refinancing on a loan-by-loan basis. These changes have
improved the effectiveness of the TA program by reorienting RPMUs' activities
to resolving HBs' portfolio problems instead of producing the hypothetical
SPID reports. Although use of the line of credit has simplified administra-
tive procedures, major deficiencies of the program (such as, use of the subsi-
dized interest rate to the final borrower and the overly-generous credit
insurance for the HBs) remain as before.



- 10 -
INDONESIA
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2430-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II 11
Introduction
23.      The present paper combines the comments of Bank Indonesia (BI) on
Part I of the draft Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Small Enter-
prise Development Project (SEDP III) with BI's own retrospective assessment of
the project's preparation and implementation. In formulating Part II, 8I has
taken into account the Bank's general outline of the content of PCRs as
detailed and explained in the three documents attached to the Bank's contribu-
tion to the PCR for SEDP III. It is understood that Bl's comments and own
assessment will form Part II; the final PCR for SEDP III thus will consist of
two distinct parts.
24.      In an earlier paper, BI has presented its views on basic policy
issues of the SEDP. specifically referring to questions related to the subsi-
dization of special credit programs for the development of small firms in
Indonesia (see BI's contribution to the PCR for SEDP I and II). Therefore, it
appears unnecessary to repeat the same arguments in the present context.
However, as not only the Bank anticipated that several major changes in the
terms and conditions of the KIK/KMKP program would become feasible during the
lifetime of SEDP III, there is reason to deal with that particular expectation
and related issues from the perspective of Bl's present contribution to the
PCR.
25.      In Bl's retrospective assessment of project implementation, many
difficulties experienced at that time seem to have been the result of differ-
ences in terms of views, expectations, and underlying assumptions the Bank and
Indonesian parties associated with the design of SEDP III. Project negotia-
tions (in 1984) could only partly remove such differences; unsettled issues
remaining after negotiations continued to affect project implementation. The
covenants agreed upon required exacting actions on the part of designated
Indonesian institutions. Several of these covenants subsequently proved to
have been formulated in unrealistic terms; either because the actions them-
selves could not effectively have been undertaken by the institutions under
given circumstances (like the demands on participating banks for complying
with detailed procedures in KMKP lending) or, because the requested time
schedule for such actions proved to be not feasible (like, for instance, the
prescribed time schedule for the preparation and implementation of the earlier
version of the MIS). The following paragraphs refer to the main lessons of
experience BI has derived from the preparation and implementation of SEDP III.
A Transition Period in SEDP Implementation
26.      In terms of sequence, SEDP III followed the financial sector measures
of 1983 and preceded the more recent and comprehensive sector reforms, specif-
ically those announced by the Government in October 1988. Although SEDP III
only covered a comparatively short span of time in SEDP implementation, in
retrospect it seems to have derived its importance for providing additional
project experience from the fact that it was phased between the announcement
1/  Project review from borrower's perspective (Supplied by Bank Indonesia)



- 11 -
of major policy changes. The per4.od between these announcements was marked by
a series of intense policy discusdions that included issues related to a pro-
spect&i~-- redirection of bank and credit policies. These discussions also
influenced the operation of the SEDP at that time. However, they essentially
were preparatory in that they did not provide strong and specific indications
of changes in individual credit and refinancing policies; the latter were
envisaged to follow from future general reform measures (that were then quite
distant). In particular, these discussions were not yet strongly indicative
of fundamental changes in the Government's policy of supporting small business
development through existing special credit programs.
27.      As a consequence, the general implications of long-term credit and
refinancing policies rather than the specific content of the policy discus-
sions of this interim period were responsible for influencing the operation of
the SEDP and for contributing to several adjustments in the program (as well
as to developments outside the SEDP, such as the introduction of the KUPEDES
program). With the benefit of hindsight, the phase of SEDP III can be des-
cribed as to have been a transition period in SEDP implementation when, with
major policy reforms pending and SEDP operations continuing on the basis of
available policy input, the former SEDP gradually assumed features of the New
SEDP as conceptualized by BI in 1987 and 1988. Nevertheless, during such
transition periods the preparation and implementation of individual policies
tend to be affected by a higher degree of uncertainty and more complexity as
regards the sequence of prospective changes and adjustments in the policy
environment and the expected outcomes of individual policies than at other
times when the conditions for decision-making are less demanding.
28.      BI is of the opinion that at the time the agreements for SEDP III
were negotiated (April 1984) and during project implementation, all parties to
these agreements experienced considerably more uncertainty, especially as to
future policy and project developments, than at time when earlier phases of
the SEDP were negotiated and executed. These uncertainties seem to have
interfered with the two parties' perceptions as regards the feasibility of
specific project outcomes that were formulated by the Bank in the draft agree-
ments (including covenants) and accepted by BI as project management agency at
negotiations. Later, a part of the content of these project documents proved
to have been unrealistic and thus, with hindsight, not to have constituted a
feasible base for project implementation.
29.      Although BI tends to agree with the Bank's (ex-post) observation that
the negotiations of SEDP III failed to achieve la meeting of minds between
negotiating parties' (para. 19), we also believe that complete mutual
understanding was prevented by considerable uncertainty on the part of both
negotiating missions that could neither be removed by the parties present nor
appropriately structured by the suggested project documents. In Part I of the
PCR, it is also pointed out that the Bank 'should have evaluated the
feasibility of achieving the project objectives more carefully before project
negotiations' (Highlights, para. 4). We agree (also ex-post) that this may
have resulted in a more realistic content of the project documents.
30.      Despite these circumstances, several adjustments were made during the
phase of SEDP III implementation. While some of them, like the extension of
eligibility of private banks for participation in special credit programs, the



- 12 -
reduction in the number of subsidized credit programs, the provision of an
explicit budget subsidy of 1.52 p.a. on KIK/KMKP loans, the increase in the
loan guarantee fee to P.T. ASKRINDO, and the execution of some parts of the
agreements with the Bank on SEDP III were of definite character, other adjust-
ments--because of their trial-and-error character--necessarily had to be expe-
rimental and tentative rather than definite at that time. The latter com-
prises adjustments, such as the gradual phasing-out of fce-gn consultancy at
the CPMU and RPMU level, amendments to RPMU operations, attempted improvements
in the recording of small loans, pursuing the acceptance of the main features
of that system by the banks, and the gradual expansion of the coverage of the
MIS. In the course of the SEDP III phase, efforts were also made to improve
the base fir analysis and decision-making for SEDP; for example, the study on
the future role of the RPMU system was conducted, and the attempts for asses-
sing the impact of the KIKIgNRP program continued.
Obiectives and Expectations of the Bank
31.      The Bank's Part I of the PCR acknowledges the adjustments and other
activities listed in the preceding paragraph but also expresses severe disap-
pointment about the results that actually were achieved through the credit and
technical assistance components of SEDP III (Highlights, para. 4). The Bank
derives this judgment by comparing project objectives with actual project
outcomes of SEDP III. The main project objectives as agreed upon at
negotiations were: first, to supplement BI's rediscount and participating
banks' financial resources for KIKJKMKP lending so that SSE borrowers could
increase their capacity utilization; second, to strengthen the administration
of the KI/IXMKP program; and, third, to improve the management and operations
of Bank Rakyat Indonesia (for more detail on the main objectives of SEDP III,
see official project documents and the Highlights, para. 2.).
32.      In comparing project objectives and other provisions (the latter
essentially consisting of conditions of loan effectiveness and a set of cove-
nants contained in the Loan and Project Agreements) with project outcomes, the
Bank includes in the project objectives two expectations, which apparently
were important for the Bank's decision (in 1984) to continue with its support
of the SEDP. First, the expectation that the Bank through SEDP III could
influence the Government's lending policies towards SSEs, in particular that
the Bank's influence would lead to a reduction in the amount of subsidy in the
KIK/KMKP program; and, second, the expectation that the Bank would be able to
contribute to strengthening the institutional infrastructure, required to
guide and implement the KIKIKMKP program (para. 17). The Bank's approach of
incorporating these two expectations, especially the first one, into the
project objectives implies that from the Bank's perspective it would have had
reason to be disappointed with the performance of SEDP III, even if the
project's three main objectives (see para. 31) had been achieved.
33.      The Bank's first expectation involved a definite change in terms of
the emphasis the Bank intended to extend to the interest rate issue of the
KIKt/MKP program; whereas "the Bank did not vigorously pursue the interest
rate issue under SEDP I and SEDP II* (para. 12), at negotiations it was
evident that the Bank was determined to give much more attention and emphasis
to that issue in the preparation and execution of SEDP III. Indonesian
negotiators acknowledged these intentions of the Bank, in particular, because



- 13 -
these were in line with the Government's financial reform measures of the
preceding year to which, for example, BRI had already responded by introducing
(in February 1984) the KUPEDES program that featured market-oriented interest
rates for small loans. Furthermore, the budgetary constraints which were
arising from the substantial fall in the country's oil revenues required
policy responses that could be expected also to have an effect on the terms
and conditions of priority credit programs. At the same time, ongoing policy
discussions within the Government and with major foreign development agencies
indicated that the preparation of further reform measures for the financial
sector was initiated and programs.
34.      At the time of negotiating SEDP III, the Bank'a intentions and propo-
sitions thus coincided with several corroborating events and seemingly antici-
pated correctly the general direction of current and future discussion on
interest rate policies. At the same time, it was also understood that the
Government considered the KIRtRMKP program to have a rationale of its own
which--for the time being--precluded immediate and substantial changes in the
program's principal design parameters (for a brief review of the arguments
explaining this position, see BI's comments on the PCR for SEDP I and It).
Consequently, while Indonesian negotiators agreed to several actions that were
to be undertaken under SEDP III in anticipation of a gradual reduction in the
amount of the subsidy in KIKIKMKP lending, they did not agree to any definite
time schedule for successive increases in the program's interest rate. As a
result, the Bank's first expectation could not be translated into a definite
commitment by the Government to a gradual elimination of the subsidy in KIK/
EMKP lending, and therefore could not be added to the three main objectives
for SEDP III.
35.      To be sure, the Bank's first expectation and these three objectives
did not conflict with each other, but the attainment of the three project
objectives also did not necessarily depend on the realization of that expecta-
tion. From the fact that the Bank's expectation was not explicitly included
in the main objectives of SEDP III, the conclusion could be drawn that, in
terms of the project design agreed upon, that expectation was considered (but
not necessarily by both parties) to be of lower rank, that is, subordinated to
the three main objectives of the project. Although there is some justifica-
tion for construing such a hierarchy of project goals, this would overlook the
other fact that, at negotiations, agreement was reached on several covenants
that reflected the Bank's expectations (albeit to a varying degree). These
covenants required designed Indonesian institutions to undertake specified
actions in anticipation of a gradual reduction in the amount of the subsidy in
KIK(KMKP lending, and thus in support of the realization of the Bank's first
expectation (see also para. 34).
36.      With the benefit of hindsight this means that, although the Bank's
first expectation did not have the same quality as the three main project
objectives, through the instrument of covenants they were recognized as deter-
minants of specified actions and other project activities. The Bank's contri-
bution to the PCR explains that five main covenants (out of a total of ten)
were attached to the project's credit operations specifically for the purpose
of facilitating the Bank's two expectations (Table 4). The Bank's reference
to these five main covenants appears to infer more support of the Bank's
expectations from the Indonesian side in retrospect than there actually was at



- 14 -
the time of negotiations, especially with respec: to the first one. In fact,
only two covenants seem to have had a direct principal bearing on the
realization of that expectation, the other eight covenants primarily were to
serve the achievement of the project's three main objectives and did not
necessarily imply a simultaneous realization of the Bank's expectation. The
two covenants (referring to the annual interest rate review and the ASKRINDO
review, respectively) formed part of the Loan Agreement concluded between the
Government and the Bank. Consequently, BI as the executing agency for SEDP
III could only undertake the actions required by these covenants at the
explicit request of the Government.
37.      In retrospect, the negotiations of SEDP III did not result in a com-
mon understanding on all aspects of the design and intended implementation of
SEDP III. Even though both negotiating parties apparently had a strong inter-
est in the Bank's continuing support of the SEDP, they assigned different
priorities to the timing of gradual reductions in the amount of the subsidy in
KIK/KMKP lending. Although the Bank intended to evoke significant (upward)
changes in the program's interest rates already in the course of implementing
SEDP III, it was also familiar with the reasons the Government had in postpon-
ing such changes. Since--with hindsight--it was not possible to elevate the
Bank's intention explicitly to the level of a primary goal of SEDP III and,
thus, to a guiding principle for changes in lending policies for the KIK/KMKP
program, the Bank resorted to the instrument of covenants which, despite their
legal implications, proved not to be effective in changing policies through a
limited number of prescribed actions at the project's input and output levels.
38.      Although BI tends to agree with the Bank's (ex-post) observation that
the negotiations of SEDP III failed to achieve 'a meeting of minds between
negotiating parties, we also believe that complete mutual understanding was
prevented by considerable uncertainty on the part of both negotiating
missions. Both parties understood each other's position (although the
implications for project implementation may have been less clear), they also
could anticipate in which direction the terms and conditions of the KIK/KMIP
program eventually were likely to change; however, neither party could have
predicted on the basis of available information when internal policy
deliberations of the Government would have reached the point where a
succession of adjustments in the program's interest rates would have become a
feasible proposition. This uncertainty could neither be removed by the par-
ties present at negotiations, nor appropriately structured by the project
documents agreed upon.
39.      As the Bank's expectation that it would be able to contribute to the
strengthening of the institutional infrastructure required for the implementa-
tion of the KIK/RMKP program clearly was consistent with the project's second
main objective, discussion of the issue and its implications did not pose much
of a problem at negotiations (paras. 31 and 32). Besides, the Indonesian side
had a definite interest in the Bank's support of the implementation of the two
project components of SEDP III. However, the relevant covenants required
specific actions only by Indonesian institutions; for the Bank's prospective
contribution to the strengthening of institutional infrastructure, both
parties seem to have relied primarily on the activities of the Bank's
supervision missions.



- 15 -
40.      Since the Bank's "... supervision was sporadic, and management's
strong support of its supervision missions was missing" (para. 19), with
hindsight, it appears that the resources the Bsank actually made available fell
short of the inputs required for the realization of the Bank's second
expectation. As difficulties became apparent during project implementation,
the technical assistance component of SEDP III may have done better, if more
short-term specialized expertise had been provided directly by the Bank.
Again in retrospect, perhaps it also was unavoidable that the Bank's interest
in the execution of SEDP III waned when the successive increases in the
interest rates the Bank had intended to induce for the KIK/KMKP program were
not forthcoming.
Credit Operations
41.      The Bank's discontent with the performance of SEDP III clearly did
not only result from the fact that the two of its major expectations failed to
materialize as anticipated. The Bank's PCR detects several other flaws in the
implementation of the two project components. In contrast to the Bank's
intentions, the funds disbursed under the credit co;..ponent mostly financed
existing KIK/YRKP loans rather than channeled investment credits to new SSEs
(para. 14). The Bank point out that this probably resulted in less employment
generation than otherwise might have been possible. Although there are not
enough reliable data that could conclusively support (or refute) that
statement, BI tends to agree that the employment effects of RIRJRMRP lending
under SEDP III were probably less than experienced during the two earlier
phases of the SEDP. However, this does not necessarily mean that the impact
of KIKIKMKP lending on employment under SEDP III has been as limited as the
Bank suggests. Besides, if the loans (as required by the first main objective
for SEDP III) had to be directed at increases in the capacity utilization of
SSEs, and if effective in that respect, such an allocation of funds would have
tended to absorb relatively more funds for working capital and provide less
job opportunities than the financing of investments in new SSEs.
42.      The Bank remarks that from the beginning of SEDP III the credit
amount was disbursed fast, much ahead of the estimate of its Appraisal Report
(para. 11). When the Bank discovered that the primary reason for fast
disbursement was that funds were mostly used to finance existing KIK/KMRP
loans, it was too late for the Bank to intervene (as most of the funds were
already committed). The Bank blames the late discovery of this development on
its lax supervision of SEDP III, but also adds that the refinancing of
existing KIK/MKP loans was permitted under SEDP III ("but should not have
been applied routinely," Highlights, para. 3). BI has some doubt that the
refinancing of existing KIK/KMKP loans was as widespread and large in volume
as the Bank suggests; again a matter which cannot be conclusively supported by
data in one way or the other. However, BI would argue that independently of
the actual scale in the refinancing of existing KIK/KMKP loans, considerable
refinancing could have been anticipated under SEDP III; if only for the reason
that participating banks experiencing mounting arrears in KIIKMKP lending
became increasingly reluctant to extend loans to new clients/investments and,
instead, preferred to allocate available funds to existing
borrowers/undertakings (as we know by now, an approach that was not always
successful, given the banks' routines and high administrative costs in the
supervision of small loans).



- 16 -
43.      The Bank's decision to finance working capital (KMRP) loan under SEDP
III led to its request (as a condition of loan effectiveness) to BI to issue a
circular letter which was to introduce participating banks to revised RMKP
loan appraisal and disbursement procedures. B complied with that request in
July 1984. The new procedures included evaluations of borrowers' creditworth-
iness, financing and procurement plans, sales projections, amortization sched-
ules, and guidelines for repayment and rescheduling of KMKP loans (para. 14).
The Bank's PCR finds that these procedures I... were not universally
implemented and their effectiveness varied significantly ...  among the
branrhes of participating banks (ibid). In retrospect, this finding is not
surprising; elaborate procedures for small loans such as were requested by the
Bank for KMKP lending usually become operational at the branch level only in
low-volume lending. If branches are under pressure to introduce or continue
with high-volume lending in this type of loans, they have little choice other
than to apply the elaborate procedures in a perfunctory manner.21 With
hindsight, we tend to believe that in KIK lending such procedures were
desirable and feasible (albeit they were also not universally" applied); for
KMKP lending BI has learned a different lesson. 8I should like to add that
the head offices of the participatir..g banks made all efforts to introduce the
requirements of BI's circular letter of July 1984 at the branch level. It is
also worthwhile to notice that in the discussions with members of the Bank's
supervision missions on the post-disbursement review of KMKP loans and
procedures, BI has emphasized that the procedures requested by the Bank were
impossible to implement "effectively' and "universally.'
Reviews of K!1(IMKP Interest Rates and
the Review of ASRRINDO Operations
44.      The Bank correctly mentions that the Government had agreed at negoti-
ations to review with BI the appropriateness of KIK/1MKP interest rates and to
furnish a report of the review to the Bank by March 1985 and annually thereaf-
ter (para. 12). It is also correctly noted that only one such report actually
was forwarded to the Bank (ibid). BI can only add that such reporting
presumed that the Government would decide on a series of gradual increases in
the interest rates of the XKIKXKKP program during the lifetime of SEDP III.
As the Government considered that not to be feasible, the annual reporting to
the Bank on these interest rates and related issues also lost their original
meaning.
45.      The Government's desire to ensure that ASRRINDO should operate on a
self-sustaining basis led to an agreement with the Bank under SEDP III to
review ASKRINDO's operations, financial structure, management and development
strategy, and to furnish the Bank with the recommendations of the review for
comments as well as with an action program for implementing the recommenda-
tions by December 1984 (para. 12). Although the responsible government
authorities reviewed ASKRINDO's operations which led to subsequent changes in
2/ In industrialized countries, banks attempt to deal with that dilemma in
small credit lending by experimenting with "low" requirements for
credit analysis in combination with various methods of numerical credit
scoring and even so-called "open-seasona approaches.



- 17 -
these operations, the Bank correctly observes that a report on the results of
that review and a program for further actions were not forwaded to the Bank
(ibid).
Management Information System (MIS)
46.      Under SEDP III, BI agreed with the Bank on the z-rmat and scope fc
upgrading the MIS, including provision for information on the age of arrears
(para. 16). BI forwarded in March 1985 a report to the Bank which evaluated
the existing MIS. The report (which the Bank considers to have been
excellent, ibid) provided an analysis of the existing system's weaknesses and
offered suggestions for improvement. As there were many serious difficulties
with the existing system, the revised HIS could not be established by March
1985 as originally agreed upon with the Bank (this had also delayed the
completion of the evaluation report). In retrospect, it proved clearly
impossible to implement the revised MIS as scheduled and this, despite the
substantial resources BI had allocated to that effort. The fact that only
recently a newly revised system could be successfully tested for about 30 bank
branches (after two years of preparation) testifies to the tremendous problem
involved in the establishment of an operational MIS for a large credit pro-
gram.
47.      This also explains why BI so far has not been able to provide reli-
able data on the KIKlXMXP portfolios for the present PCR or other documenta-
tion to the Bank (para. 16). BI agrees with the Bank that there are
indications of a reversal in the deterioration of the portfolio since the
beginning of 1987. However, that ii,formation is still only available for a
very limited number of bank branches. Major impediments to the collection of
consistent data on arrears included the divergences in the delineation of
arrears between banks and the reluctance of participating banks to report
regularly on arrears in the KIK/KMKP portfolios. Under the New SEDP, progress
has been made in dealing with both problems (see a series of quarterly reports
preparod by CPMU consultants since the end of 1987). Since the third study on
the economic impact of the KIK/KMKP program was conducted (in 1986), no
additional systematic and comprehensive studies have been prepared. However,
such efforts are presently under preparation with actual field work planned to
begin early next year.
Bank and BI Performance
48.      The Bank's PCR concludes that the Bank's performance was unsatisfac-
tory and indicates the reasons for that judgment (para. 19). Similarly, BI
does not see any reason for concealing the mistakes it certainly made in the
joint preparation and implementation of SEDP III. Moreover, BI is of the
opinion that it did and continues to bear primary responsibility for the SEDP.
However, we agree with the Bank that, in retrospect, the Bank and the
Government, including BI, essentially failed to realize fully the operational
and practical implications of all the agreements that were agreed upon at the
negotiations for SEDP III (para. 19). Many problems of implementation could
have been avoided, if this had been recognized at an earlier stage.



- 18 -
INDONESIA
THUTD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN-2430-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMTION



Table 1
Related Bank Loan and/or Credits
Loan/Credit  Title               Purpose                       Year   Status          Comments
No.
Credit 785   SEDP    } To finance small-scale enterprises    1978   Closed }  Bank's support of the
} by supplementing resources for YJKI                   }  KTKIKKMP program did not
Loan  2011   SEDP II } KMKP program; and to strengthen         1981   Closed }  lead to a major improve-
) program management, monitoring and                    }  ment in the co'.t effec-
Loan  2430   SEDP III)  supervision at BI and HBs              1984   Closed }  tiveness of this program;
hence, the SEDP series was
term_>._,:.ted.
Loan  2800   KUPEDES    To provide unsubsidized finance and   1987  Active I  These two programs are
strengthen BRI's village credit                      }  essentially complementary
program                                              3   to each other and replace
} the above mentioned SEDP
program.
Loan         SMIE       To provide unsubsidized finance        1989 Approved)
and technical assistance to SMIEs                    }
through 13 participating banks                       3
Source: The Wtorld Bank.



- 20 -                               Table 2
Project Timetable
Item            Date Planned         Date Revised         Date Actual
Identification (PB)  October 9, 1980      August 30, 1983       September 8, 1983
Preparation 
Appraisal mission    September 19, 1983  September 26, 1983  Sept-Oct. 1983
Postappraisal
mission             January 1984         --                   January 16, 1984
Loan negotiations    April 3, 1984         --                  April 3-12, 1984
Board approval        June 12, 1984       May 15, 1984         May 31, 1984
Loan signature        June 20, 1984        --                   June 20, 1984
Loan effectiveness   November 27, 1984   --                    November 27, 1984
Loan closing a        March 31, 1988       --                  October 3, 1988
Loar. completion      June 30, 1987        --                   September 30, 1987
La On October 3, 1988 $4.16 million (out of the total original amount of
$204.54 million) was cancelled.
Sources The Vorld Bank.



- 21 -                              Table 3
Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year
1985     1986      1987      1988       1989
Appraisal estimate (S'O0O)   25,010   110,310   181,750   204,650       la
Actual             ($'000)   42,115   163,018   196,646   200,412   200,493
Actual as 2 of estimate        1682     1482      1081       982       1002
Date of final disbursement                                      October 3, 1988
la $4,157,000 loan amount was cancelled on October 3, 1988.
Sources The World Bank.



- 22 -                             Table 4
Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant          Subject                  compliance              Status
Loan Agreement
(with GOI)
Article 3.02 (a)  ASKRINDO's review       December 31, 1984   Report not
received
Article 3.03 (a)  Interest rate review   March 31, 1985        Report received
in December 1985
Proiect Agreement
(with BI)
Article 2.09(b)   Post-disbursement       September 30, 1985  Report received
review of KMKP loans                        in February 1986
and procedures
Article 2.13(a)   Evaluation of the MIS  October 31, 1984    Report received
in March 1985
Article 2.13(c)   Putting into effect    March 31, 1985        Information
the revised MIS                             unavailable
Article 2.14      BBs to establish        March 31, 1985       Information
arrears data collec-                        unavailable
tion system
Article 2.15      Evaluation of borrow-  June 30, 1985         Information
er's policies for TA                        unavailable
Project Agreement
(with BRI)
Article 2.02      BRI's hiring of         March 31, 1985       Hired in Septem-
consultants                               ber 1985
Article 2.08 (a)  BRI's evaluation of    December 31, 1985   Report not
its management and                        received
operations, etc.
Article 2.09      BRI's review of its    December 31, 1984   Report not
lending rules and                         received
regulations
Source: The World Bank.



- 23 -                                            Table S
Use of Bank Resources: Misslons
Stags of            Month/ Number of    Days   Specialization  Performance rating
Project Cycle           Year   persons   In field    represented           status        Types of problem
Through appralal       9/M         -          -    -
Appraisal through
Board approval          5184        5         14    Post-appralsal  Incorporated findings In SAR
Board approval through
effectivenes  /a       11/84
SuS rtleton
IIiilion 19/84                      2         21   Development      Moderate problems   Delays In
Banking                             Implementation
Mission 2               8/85        S         14    Development      Moderate problems  Further delays
Banking
Miesion 8               9/8C       1.          ?   Development      Major problems       Continued delays
Banking
Mission 4               2/88        a         18    Development      Major problems      Refinancing of
Banking                             KZK/KIKP loans
Mlsion S               C/J8        1          -   Development      No formal report    SOE verification
Banking
Mission 6               2/87        1         14   Development      Major problems       Project mangement
Banking
/o First Supervision Mission visited Indonesia before the date of loon effectiveness (see Mission I row).
Source: The World Bank.



PxSIbof 2
Cweretwiatica of Credit Scheme In Tnd1cnge
Piinieje  Mauimae                           Ztereet
oto of    Ctory           adin        ttxti        Source of   *off    liowlng    Letdtg         ohre        rat. an    Collateral  Insurance
lb.. of S                            t   ok                       to"  mut            d    finning  ter  *         te pa.        f        fud p..   rqmulr_at
(t)~~~~~~~ (a)                              (4)          % JAI)                                        (9)          (z} 0)    (1,) S    (1) %    (23) M
Kur elt Candt Kula% (KO()  Apr I 178      Working        gm          850.00     Ooerwmet        0    8 cawAe        i2         bo't:I-
capitl                  tboueendi       bdeet
o<,bl rural acrit           Feb. 1984    working         oRn          .00        8.SRI,v        0      2 year,      18         .URI.1.WS   N s 12       project
0u m                                    "cP./Ivw.                millicc                                                                Wes
elm /Dow  credit                 197      working        3          pacag         lI a HD       0    7 mthe         12         a 2100        a           le1        000t: so
coi tl
Sbxil  lovebmet Credit      J.n. 1974   in..,mnt   lI leatIonal      18.00      Si.S & Hl       0      8  eer       12           UI  5 i U ,  3         Projet  Pr A W0
(nom                                                  b  k        million                                                    V    : 2i  We   10.1                      I75
"a   : 20   H:e 
Penent Working Cpitat   Jn. 1974          lorking  olI ibitlal       15.00 lO     .f  & He      0      a veers      12         K   i 8    SI    8      project  Pr A=StO
Credit On"                              e apital     bo          million                                                    WS    25   W s 10.1            t            7S
NS :20   i:. 
Invoeeta.b Croedit up to     Ame 1998  inveetet all Soticoal    75.00             SI a He      10    10 fere        12         S    :      W0 Ut 8 3   project
no 78el ItISO                                         sw          .11ilcm                                                    Hlt  H2      e i  :.
Working Capital Credit up    iby 194    worIng   all  itcel    75.00                  aVS     10      1 yer        is    U     I   : 70   at 2  8     proJect  Pr A l00
to b n78tie IIon                        copitel        bok       milltenn                                                   No  : 80   Ie t7t
Worilng Cepitel C"rt for   IKy 1984    working   all NthIonal   200.00            U a HV       10      I yea        is         W   t 70   a : 8         project  PT AIO
Ovront> Project                         c"vitaHla"                mlion                                                      VS   : 80   i  :*                           75
0      29/1984)
Credit. for  gricultr*l           1984    woria          an         packg         K  HV        0     7 gmtthe      12         K   :10       8           len            Peru.
epcific *eoctgr for                     capiltal                                                                                                                 FM( : 90
Dims progres
bort Credit                  Jan 192      norki g      Ia atial                 aU me l        i      1 yoes     9S for       SI   t 70  SI: a        *xporbe   Pr AI 81
capital      Bok                                                    prelry cor.   VS   s0 8HD    :            g oode    I    7.50
IlI for non-                                       VS   7.50
priiry cm.
* Cket of fuod. at Present Ibout 183.



rw2of 2
Date Of    cm           "We Caory   I 4dl<alm     Sour1e of   salf    leading      andint     Sher* of   rate an   Cal l_tnCl  cneuranc
No" ar Sdtoo..gceagt   of iee                 1WRnIC a    oo  aenunt      foxd"   fin... og  to...    rate p.m.       fund.   fund pia.  requairement c.,eras
(1)                     (2)         (3)          (4)         (            (6)                               S ()  m  aJ         (S1)         (5
Coporatives credit:
a. for the mbacre & fer   June 198    work         *Il National    18.00      tS aB2         0     1 yer        12        eI  s00  el S     3     projeb          psr71
SurPiTto hi                          capit.        aat mlin.~1                                                        No  :10   He 6a:0                   PO   :75
Investment *ll  atiol    18.00          et &HI       0    10 y..        12
Sant      mtillio"
b. Prt ifhefamresunder   Aprl 1c96  pAol1            Mr. am       121.00       ex ail        0   H  Oew         1         SetI  :O0    8            land
norno"Elfietatl"n Program                                    ttotueendeW
ef paddy &crop.
Pady field foeratin       Sept. 1979  Investmet   Oovt/R2            -           ex          -    10 yer.       12        BI  : 100    8        goeormnt
Plantation Credito
.    ato smllholder        Aug. 1978  leeetmAnt   WI 5,                                      0    20 yoare      12        B2   se0   SI:  8   govrn.ant
WaxI                                                                No  : 18   H6e 
b.   Ienting rahi I-            1979  Inveo_mt alI Ntional           -         B11           0    20 yeers      12         7   s BO   x s 3   eanerant
tetion A developoon t                             Sank                                                                No  :18   No
of export commodity
plants
c. Private national         June 1976  lnveetnt       iov't/                   ex 4 1     10 - 80 10 yer.       12        el   es  ex   a : *     project
planfttion (P9g                                    boo"                                                               1      Is5  He o
Credit for hou_e omr-
shlp (MFR):
a. Pubbie houmian          Nom. 1976  tnveed_nt        aim         6.80 joveniment  10 - 20 20 your.             a        Omvt-:100  0B    3      projet            -
b  ibn'letlne                                   ~~~~~ ~~~~ellion  SedgetB    @iit
b.  4mg-Public Htmaieg                                             7.00        ex a N                            9        07   :90   ax:  a
sillions                                                 16   : 10   HO:
Student lan:
a.  aw  Iondnoon rentn Ny 1962            0sN t94                 780.00         SB         0 S       - 7       t6    B2   t100  9    8   certificate Pr A6D0O
Om                         ~~~~~~cap it.?          thousands                           year.                                                       :75
8181.75
16   6.25
b. Aor dtudnt dorelitories June 18                     elm         5.50                           20 year.       a        K   : 50  0  :          poect           per
for a universities                                           millon                                                   e   I6 20  16 :                   PG P1 70
16: s15
O met of fWnd, at pronmt about 185
Bsorce: IBank  idoneel.



Table 7
Interest Rates on Deposits at Comercial Banks. 1983-88 /a
(1p.s.)
(X P. 0.) 
TABANAS   TASKA      Certtfi-
Demand    savings   savings  cate of                    State bank time doos;ts                          Private national bank time deposits Is
End of deposits  deposits   deposits  deposits Es.. than                                                 Less than
period    I&     /c                             8m O  a Moe /f  3 mo      8 Mos     12 ..      24 mo     3 moso /f    8. Mo        os      12 moo    24 mos
198s 4    1. -3.0  12 and 1S    9.0     15.4      14.4         14.8        6.0        9.0     12-1S/h      18.7       17.4       18.8       19.5        18.8
1964    1.8-3.0  12 and 15    9.0       16.6      16.1         17.1       6.0         9.0     12-16        19.6       20.7       20.7       20.4       21.0
1985    1.8-3.0  12 and Is    9.0      13.9       13.4        14.8        6.0         9.0     12-1S        14.6       16.9       17.8       19.8        21.3
1986   4.5-10.0  12 and 15   9.0        138.     13.0-13.5  13.5-14.25    14.5       15.0    14.0-15.0  13.0-15.0  12.S-18.0  13.5-17.0  14.6-18.0  16.0-19.0
1987  4.6-10.0  12 and 16   9.0        13.4    13.0-13.6  18.6-14.26   14.6          16.0    14.0-16.0  18.0-1C.0  14.6-18.6 16.0-17.0  15.0-17.0  16.0-17.6
1988  4.5-10.0  12 and 15    9.0       17.7    15.6-16.0  1S.S-17.0  17.0-18.0  17.5-18S5  18.0-19.0  1.0-17.0  17.0-18.0  18.0-19.0  18.0-19.0  18.0-19.5
I!  Weighted average rate of interest at selected banks.
Z   Until February 1978: 4.65 for amounts above Rp 60 million, 3X for smaller   ounts. From March 1978, 3X for amounts above Rp 50 million, 1.8X for Rp 1-50
million, and individually determined for mounts less than Rp 1 million.
C  TABASO or *Tabungan Pembangunan Nasionsla (National Development Savings) is ordinary saving account sponsored by *8ank Tabungan Nbgoar*  (State Seving
Bank) and offered by all state owned and some private national commercial banks, and post office. Until June 1, 1981:  15% for amounts of Rp 200,000 or
leese: 6 above Rp 200,000. From June 1988: 165 for Rp 1 million or less; 12X for more than Rp 1 million. Since July 1, 1987 the rate is 16% p.a.
/d  *TASKAS  or ITobungan Asuransi berjanglsa (Insuranced Time Oeposits) Is ordinary time depoeit sponsored by aBank Tsbungan Negasre and offered by the *ame
institution  in  a bove.
M Midpoint of range for sIx-month rates
One-month time deposit rats used as representative rate.
CeIlings on time deposit interest rates at state banks removed on June 1, 1983.
With 12X legal minimum rate starting in June 1983.
Source: Bank Indonesis.



Table 8
Psge 1 of 2
Lgndtna Rtnes by Economic Sector.
(S per year)
April 9, 1974 April 1, 1978  January 1, 1978 January 18, 1982 Juno Is 1983
I. Investment (medium-torm) credits:
1.  Up to Rp 76 illton                                          12            10.5               10.6             12
2. Abovo Rp 75 illion - Rp 2O0 miliion           12             12             12.0              12.0
8. Above Rp 200 million - Rp SOO  ilion          16             1S             13.5              13.5
4. Above Rp 60O million - Rp 1,6O million       16             15             18.6              18.5
S.  ginl Credit                                                                                                   12
S. Mid) Credit                                                                                                    12
7. Plantation Credit
a. SmalIholder and nucleus estate (PIR)                                                                       12
b. Rejuvenation, rehabilitation, and
development of export commodities plants
c. Private national plantations (PSN)                                                                         12
8. Construction of paddy fields                                                                                   12
9. Credits to cooperatiaves for their members                                                     12
and for the supply of high-priority goods
IS. Small-scale Invostment credits (KIK)              12             12             10.5              10.5             12                     
rII. Permanent working capital credits (KUKP)          15             15             12.0              12.0             12
IV. Short-term crodits of stat banks:
1.  Supply and distribution of rice, paddy and
corn by BUUDs/KUDs                          9              9             9.0                9.0
2.  Sams. and IRmas credits for rice and
econdary crops                             12             12             12.0              12.0             12/a
3. Collection and distribution of small-
holders salt by EUi8s/KUDS and PN Cares
and working capital credits for PM Garam   16             12            12.0               12.0
4. Operation of wheat flour mills                12             12             12.0              12.0
5. Exports and production of export goods       1S-21           12             12.0                                gLb
a. Pre shipment
- Strong export comoditios                                                                 9.0
- Othor commodittes                                                                        6.0
b. Post shipment (all of export commodittes)                                                  6.0
6. Production, Import, and distribution of
fertilizer and nsoecticidles for use by
smalihoiders                               12             12            12.0               12.0             12Ue
7. Credits for National Prtvato Plantations
S. Credits for Coop"ratiaves for their members
and for tho supply of high-priority goods                                                                   12
9.  Aid financed Import. and distribution of
non-food commodities                      12-18          12-18          12.0               12.0
10. Animal husbandry, fishery and collection
and distribution of agricultural produce
conducted by DMUUsJKlJDs and cooperatives   15            15             12.0              12.0



Table 8
rage 2 @of 2
April 9, 1974 April 1, 1976  January 1, 1978  January 18, 1982  Juno 1, 1983 Ld
11. Smallholders agrlculture and bandicrafts            18            1S-18          12.0               12.0
12. Sma lholdsrs animal  husbandry, poultry forming,    15-21         16-18          12.0               12.0
and fishey
18. manufacturing and service rendsrlng industries
a.  RICe mills/hullars                              18            1is            13.6
b.  Sugar .1lls                                     18             15            18.6               1386
C.  Coconut oil and palm oil                        21             18            18.6               18.6
d. Textiles                                         18             1S            18.5               13.5
e. Agricultural equipments                          21             18            18.5               13.5
f.  Paper                                           21             18            18.6               13.5
9.  Cemeat                                          21             18            18.6               13.6
h. Pubilc transportatlon                            18             15            13.6               13.6
1. Printing and publishing                          21             16            18.6               18.6
.Tourism                                           24             24            13.5              13.6
14.  Ither production activities                        21             18            13.6               18.5
15. Import and distribution of supervised goods         18             18            18.5               18.S
16. Sugar stock                                         18             18            13.5               18.S
17. Domestic trade                                      21             18            18.5               13.6
18. Contractors of DIP, Inpree, and low-cost
housing projects                                  24             21            18.5               13.5                                    ba
19. Other contractors                                   24             21            15.0               16.0                                    co
20. Itports and distribution of otber .port goods       24             24            11.0               18.0
21. Other n.l.e.                                        24             24             21.0              21.0
a Not Included In Inmas credits.
As long as export Is actualized.
c For Sims. credit only.
Lending rates were essentially determined by the market end aot by 8I.
Source: Bank Indonesia.



- 29-                            Table 9
KIK and RKWP Loan Approvals by Sector, 1984-87
KIK                     , KMKP
Sector                 1984   1985   1986   1987   1984   1985   1986   1987
Agriculture      (2)     6.6    8.1   18.0    4.6    5.2    6.1   22.4    0.2
Industry         (2)    14.2   14.9   10.1   14.7    9.5    9.2   24.2    0.5
Trade            (2)    43.8   41.5   24.9   49.3   70.0   70.9   43.0   87.9
Transportation  (2)      9.2    8.9   28.8    0.4    0.5    0.6    1.7  neg.
Other            (2)    26.2   26.6   18.2   31.0   14.8   13.3    8.7   11.4
Total      (X)   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Billion Rupiah       72.0   90.9  119.6  134.9  264.8  398.9  473.2  540.3
Sourcet Bank Indonesia.



- 30 -                           Table 10
VIKIIMRP Harsin Analysis
Income/Expense component                                SEDP III
Income
Onlending rate                                                   12.0
Expense
Cost of fundt
BI fund cost (0.55 s 3.0)                                       1.65
IBRD fund cost (0.25 x 10.1)                                    2.53
Own funds (0.20 x 13.0)                                         2.60
Subtotal                                                   6.78
Insurance (ASKRINDO) premium la                                 0.30
Cost of bad debts                                               3.00
Overhead cost                                                   3.00
Subtotal                                                   6.30
Total Expenses                                            13.08
Margin                                                              (1.08)
Government subsidy                                              1.5
Net Margin                                                 0.42
/a Portion of Premium paid by HB is 1.52. The average loan period is assumed
at 5 years time which then resulted in the annual premium cost of
0.302 p.a.
The rate of risk of uninsured portion of loan and nonpayment of interest
is included in the cost of bad debts calculation.
Source: Bank Indonesia.



-31 -                                     Table 11
ASKRINDO Cash Gains tLosses) fro% RIK and XMKP Program, 1983-88
(Rp billion)
Up to
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    3188  6/88  9/88  12/88
Income
Premium received           14.1    13.9    13.5    16.1    24.1    8.9  18.5  27.6  36.4
Recoveries                   3.9    10.0    18.5    30.2    31.0    6.6  13.6  20.9  30.5
Total Cash Income       18.0    23.9    34.0    46.3    55.1   15.5  32.1  48.5  66.9
Expense
Claim paid                 29.6    61.6   101.4   115.6    68.9   13.7  27.1  39.1  48.3
Operating expenses la       2.2      2.3      2.8     3.1      3.4    0.7   1.9   2.9   4.0
Total Cash Expense      31.8    63.9   104.2   118.7    72.3   14.4  29.0  42.0  52.3
Cash Gain (Loss) for Year  (13.8)  (40.0)  (70.2)  (72.4)  (17.2)   1.1   3.1   6.5  14.6
/a  KIK/XMKP chargeable operating expenses prorated on basis of total premium receiving
from all ASRRINDO policies as compared to KIKIDKKP premium.
Sources PT. ASIRINDO.



- 32 -                             Table 12
Summary of 8EDP Consultant Manning, 1981-87
Manning as of year-end    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
CPM_
Foreign                     3        2       4        4       1        -       1
Local                       2        1       1        -       2        2       3
Subtotal                5       3        5       4        9       2        4
LPPI
Foreign                     2        3       4        3       1        2       2
Local                       1        3       3        3       3        2       1
Subtotal                 3       6        7       6        4       4        3
RHIIS
Foreign                    16       16      19       22      16        9       1
Local                      29       33      45       40      40       38      24
Subtotal                45      49       64      62       56      47       25
TOTALS
Foreign                    21       21      27       25      18      11        4
Local                      52       37      49       47      45       42      28
TOTAL                   53      S8       76      72       63      53       32
Sources Bank Indonesia



33                                  T able 13
Page 1 of 4
Consultant's Position as of December 31, 1987
Name cc         Consl/Finm                   Current Contract   Source of       Manning
Consultant         Individual  Position        Begins     Ends       Funds       Exp.  Local
CPMU
Mr. Charles de Smet         BMB      MIS Expert   05/01/87  04/30189   Neth.Bil.Fd   1         -
Mr. Uben Parhusip       Individual   Agric.Spec.  10/10/83  10/10/88       BI/EEC       -      1
Mr. F.L. Dharma         Ind'vidual   Proj. Adv.   04/08/85  04/07/89       BI/EEC       -      1
Mr. Sartono Kadri       Individual  Ind/Small B.  10/01186  04130189         BI         -      1
LPPI
Dr. Winai Rungsinan    Individual                  02/01/86  01/30/80      BI/IBRD      -      1
Mr. Anwar Hafid         Individual  Mat/Dev.Exp.  09/24/84  31/03/88       BI/IBRD      -      1
Soriano                     BMB                    05/01/87  04/30/89   Neth.Bil.Fd   1       -
REMU (Location)
PT SUMMA INT.              Firm
Medan                                    3       11/01/86  12/31/87      BI/IBRD      -      3
Padang                                   4       01/01/86  12/31/87      BI/IBRD      -      4
Jabotabek                                4       08/01/86  04/30/88   Neth.Bil.Fd   -        4
ManadO                                   2       01/01/87  07/31/87      BI/IBRD      -      2
LMFE-UNPAD                 Virm
Bandung                                  2       05/01187  01/31/88      Bl/IBRD      -      2
Banjarmasin                              -       08/01/87  09/31/87    B3/IBRD        -      -
NUSA CONSULTANT            Firm
Semarang                                 4       01/01/87  12/31/87      BI/IBRD      -      3
Yogyakarta                               2       01/01/87  12/31/87      BI/IBRD      -      2
SGB UTOMO                  Firm
Surabaya                                5        01/07/86  01/06/88      BI/IBRD      1      4
PPA                        Firm
Palembang                                -       01/01/87  07/31/87      BI/IBRD      -      -
Mataram                                  -       01/01/87  07131187      BIIBRD       -      -
AGRICONSULT                Firm
Denpasar                                 -       01/01/87  07/31/87      BI/IBRD      -      -
PT UNISUYSTEM              Firm
Ujung Pandang                            -       01/01/87  07/31/87      BI/IBRD      -      -
Total                                                                              4     28



-                                   Table 13
Page 2 of 4
Consultant's Position as of December 31, 1986
Name of          Consl/Firm                  Current Contract   Source of        Manning
Consultant         Individual  Position         Begins     Ends       Funds       Exp.  Local
CPMU
Mr. Ubet. Parhusip      Individual   Agric.Spec.  10110/83  10110/88        BI/EEC       -      1
Mr. F.L. Dharma         Individual    Proj.Adv.   04/08/85  04/07/89        BI/EEC              I 1
LPPI
Mr. Klopfer                GOPA       Tr. Expert   06106/85  02/06/87       BIIIBRD      1      -
Dr. Winai Rungsinan    Individual                   02/01/86  01/30/80      BI/IBRD      1      -
Mr. Anwar Hafid         Individual  Mat/Dev.Exp.  09/24/84  31/03/88        BI/IBRD      -      1
Dr. Soerjono W.         Individual   Tr. Expert   07/01/85  06130/87        BI/IBRD      -      I
RPMU (Location)
GTZ                        Firm
Medan                                    3        11/01/86  12/31/87      BI/IBRD      -      3
Padang                                   4        01/01/86  12/31/87      BI/IBRD      -      4
PT SUMMA INT.              Firm
Jabotabek                                4        08/01/86  04/30/88   Neth.Bil.Fd   -        4
LMFE-UNPAD                 Firm
Bandung                                  2       05/01/87  01/31/88       BI/IBRD      -      2
NUSA CONSULTAN             Firm
Semarang                                 3       01/01/87  12/31/87       BI/IBRD      -      3
Yogyakarta                               2        01/01/87  12/31/87      BI/IBRD      -      2
SGV UTOMO                  Firm
Surabaya                                 5       01/07/86  01/06/88       BI/IBRD      1      4
DFC                        Firm
Denpasar                                 4        01/01/83  12/31186    EEC Grant    1        3
Menado                                   3        10/01/83  12/31/86    EEC Grant    -        3
CARL BRO INT.              Firm
Ujung Pandang                            5        01/01/83  12/31/86    EEC Grant    2        3
Banjarmasin                              5        01101/85  12/31/86      BI/IBRD      2      3
Palembang                                4        10/01/83  12/31/86    EEC Grant    2        2
IDA IRELAND                Firm
Matar am                                 3        11/01/83  12/31/86    EEC Grant    1        2
Total                                                                             11      42



- 35 _                               Table 13
Page 3 of 4
Consultant's Position as of December 31. 1985
Name of         Consl/Firm                   Current Contract   Source of       Manning
Consultant         Individual  Position        Begins     Ends       Funds       For.  Local
CPMU
Mr. L.R. Taudevin        WD Scott  Staff Dev.Adv. 07/18131  03/31/86  Aust.Bil.Fd.   1         -
Mr. Uben Parhusip       Individual   Agric.Spec.  10/10/83  10/09/86         EEC        -      1
Mr. F.L. Dharma         Individual  Project Adv.  04/08/85  04/07/86         EEC        -      1
LPPI
Mr. Klopfer                GOPA       Irr.Expert   02/02/85  06/06/87      BII/BRD      1      -
Mr. Marsaid             Individual   Irr.Expert   07/30/82  01/01/86       BI/IBRD      -      1
Mr. ANwar Hafid         Individual  Mat.Dev.Exp.  09/24/84  09/23/86       BIlIBRD      -      1
Dr. S. Wirjodiatmodjo  Individual   Irr.Expert   07/01/85  06/30/86        BI/IBRD      -      1
RPMU (Location)
German Technical
Cooperation (GTZ)        Firm        All la
Medan                                            06/01/81  05/31/86  Grmn.Bil.Fd.   1        4
Padang                                           06/01/85  12/31/85  Grmn.Bil.Fd.   1        5
Netherlands Economic
Institute (NEI)          Firm        All la
Jabotabek                                        05/01/81  04/30/85  Neth.Bil.Grnt  2        3
LMFE Padjadjaran
University               Firm        All La
Bandung                                          04/01/84  03/31/86      BI/IBRD      -      5
W.D. Scott                 Firm        All La
Semarang                                         07/01/81  03/31/86  Aust.Bil.Fd.   2        -
08/01181  12131186      BI/IBRD     -       3
Yogyakarta                                       01/01/85  12/31/66      BI/IBRD    -1       1
QGV-Utomo                  Firm        All la
Surabaya                                         01/07/80  01/06/85      BI/IBRD      1      4
DFC                        Firm        All la
Depasar                                          10/10/79  09/30/86    EEC Grant    -        3
Manado                                           10/01/83  09/30/86    EEC Grant    2        2
Carl Pro INt. Ltd.         Firm        All la
ijung Pandang                                    10/24/79  09/30/86    EEC Grant    2        2
Banjarmasin                                      01/01/85  12/31/86      BI/IBRD      2      3
Palembang                                        10/01/83  09/30/86    EEC Grant    2        2
IDA                        Firm        All la
Mataram                                          10/01/83  09/30/86    EEC Grant    1        2
Total Manning                                                                      18     45



- 36 -                              Table 13
Page 4 of 4
Consultant's Position as of December 31. 1984
Name of         Consl/Firm                   Current Contract   Source of       Manning
Consultant         Individual  Position        Begins     Ends       Funds       For.  Local
CPMU
Mr. E. Nelson              HIID        Econ.Adv.   06/01/82  06/30/85      BI/IBRD      1
Mr. L.R. Taidevom        WD Scott  Staff Dev.Adv. 07/18183  03/31186   Aust.Bil.Fd   1
Mr. G.J.M. Dyer         Individual  Dev.BankerAd. 12/08183  12/08/86         EEC        1
Mr. C.J. Mathiesen      Individual    Proj.Adv.   11/21/83  11/20/85         EEC        1
Mr. Uben Parhusip       Individual   Agric.Spec.  10110/83  10/09/85         EEC        -
LPPI
Mr. Klopfer                 GTZ       Irr.Expert   02/05183  06/06/85      BI/IBRD      1      -
Mr. Dahlan Thalib       Individual   Irr.Expert   07/30/82  01/31/85       BI1IBRD      -      1
Mr. Marsaid             Individual   Irr.Expert   01102/82  01101/86       BI/IBRD      -      1
Mr. G. Winston           VD Scott   Staff.Dev.Exp 04106/82  06106/85  Aust.Bil.Fd.   1         -
Mr. Rex Kinder           VD Scott   Mat.Dev.Exp.  03/01/81  06/30/85  Aust.Bil.Fd.   1         -
Mr. Anwar Hafid         Individual  Mat.Dev.Exp.  09/24/84  09/23186       BI/IBRD      -      1
RPMU (Location)
German Tech.Coop (GTZ)    Firm         All la
Medan                                            06/01/81  05/31/86  Grmn.Bil.Fd.   1        5
Padang                                           06/01181  12/31/86  Grmn.Bil.Fd.   1        4
Netherlands Econ.Inst.
(NEI)                    Firm        All L
Jabotabek                                        05/01/81  04/30/85  Neth.Bil.Grnt  2        3
LMFE Padjadjaran Univ.    Firm         All La
Bandung                                          04/01/84  03/31/86      BI/IBRD      1      5
W.D. Scott                 Firm         All la
Semarang                                         07/01/81  12/31/86  Aust.Bil.Fd.   2        -
07/01/81  06/30/85      BI/IBRD     -      3
11/01/83  12/31/86  Aust.Bil.Fd.   1       -
11/01/83  12/31/84      BI/IBRD     -      2
SGV-Utomo                  F_.m        All la
Surabaya                                         01/07/80  01/06/85      BI/IBRD      1      4
DPC                        Firm        All /a
Depasar                                          01/10/83  09/30/86    EEC Grant    2        3
Manado                                           10/01/83  09/30/86    EEC Grant    1        3
Carl Bro Int. Ltd.         Firm        All la
Ujung Pandang                                    10/24/79  09/30/86    EEC Grant    2        3
Bantarmasin                                      01/01/83  12/31/84      Bt/IBRD      1      3
Palembang                                        01/01/83  11/30/86    EEC Grant    2        4
IDA                        Firm        All la
M.taram                                          11/01/83  1.1/30/86    EEC Grant    1       2
Total Manning                                                                    25      47
/a  Each RPMU consultant team consists usually of a development banker/financial analyst, a
development economist, a small business specialist/marketing specialist, an agricultural
specialist; each team has 1 to 2 expatriate consultants.
Source: Bank Indonesia.



- 37 -                             Table 14
Counterpart Intake per Bank and RPMU, 1984-87
(Number of counterpart)
1984         1985         1986         1987
Bank
BRI                            27            35          35            18
BTi                            29            36          34            16
BPD la                         21            23          24            10
BDN                            18            21          19             6
BBD                            14            14          14             9
BEII                           12            12          13             3
BAPINDO                         5             1           1             1
Nat. Priv. Banks               19            14          14             5
Total                      145          156          154            68
RPMU
Surabaya                       15            18          24            19
Semarang                       12            16          13            11
Padang                         12            13          12            12
Medan                          11            12          11             -
Denpasar                       12            12          13             -
Bandung                        15            14          15             9
Jabotabek                      13            13          12             7
Banjarmasin                    10             9           6             -
Ujung Pandang                  10            11          10             -
Yogyakarta                      9            10          10            10
Palembang                      11            11           9             -
Manado                         10            10           9             -
Mataram                         5             7          10             -
Total                      145          156          154            68
/a Regional development bank.
*) Due to preparation for New SEDP, there was no counterpart intake.
Sources Bank Indonesia.



Table 15
Page 1 of 2
Distribution of RPMU Time by Maior Activity, 1984-87
1987                                              1986
SPID   Train-  Rescue  Pilot                    SPID    Train-  Rescue  Pilot
report   ing    study   project  Other  Total  report   ing    study   project  Other  Total
Medan              32        5      21        26      16    100      45       15      15        18       7    100
Padang             85       15       -         -       -    100      45       15      10        16      14    100
Palembang          30       37      20         -      13    100      50       1S      10        15      10    100
Jabotabek          46       19       9        17       9    100      53        8       7        15      17    100
Bandung            89        -       -         -      11    100      40      20        8        16      16    100
Semarang           34       0       33         -      33    100      50      25        5        16      14    100
Yogyakarta         34        -      33         -      33    100      45       15      15        15      10    100
Surabaya           42      29       27         1       1    100      46      28       23         -       3    100
Banjarmasin        40      15       15        10      20    100      50       15      10        15      10    100
Ujung Pandang      35       20      20        10      15    100      48       17      10        15      10    100
Manado             66        8      24         -       2    100      55       15      10        10      10    100
Denpasar           30       37      25         -       8    100      40       20      10        15      15    100
Hataram            22       17      57         0       4    100      50       15      10        18        7    100
Sources Bank Indonesia.



Table 15
Page 2 of 2
1985                                              1984
SPID   Train-  Rescue  Pilot                     SPID    Train-  Refcue  Pilot
report   ing    study   project  Other  Total  report   ing    study   project  Other  Total
Medan              36        7      28        18      11    100      26        8      45        19       2    100
Padang             41        9      20        20      10    100      27       10      24        29      10    100
Palembang          60       5       30         -       5    100      75       10      10         -       5    100
Jabotabek           6        5      30         -       5    100       -        -       -         -       -    100
Bandung            40      12       30         -      18    100       -        -       -         -       -    100
Semarang           50      15       30         -       5    100      25        5      20        45       5    100
Yogyakarta         30      10       55         -       5    100      43       15      40         -       2    100
Surabaya           55      21       17         -       7    100      42       10      23        18       7    100
Banjarmasin        35      20       15        20      10    100      20       20      40        15       5    100
Ujung Pandang      50       20      25        15       5    100      35       15      25        20       5    100
Manado             50       16      27         -       7    100      54       16      16         7       7    100
Denpasar           33      34       23         -      10    100      66       10      14         2       8    100
Mataram            40        4      30        22       4    100       -        -       -         -       -    100
Source: Bank Indonesia.



- 40 -                                     Table 16
SPID Retorts per Sector. 1986 and 1987
(Cumulative up to December 1986 and 1987)
Agriculture   Industry       Trade       Services      Other           Total
1986   1987  1986  1987  1986  1987  1986  1987  1986  1987   1986   1987
Hedan              21      28    35    39    23    24        8    10      S      6     92    107
Padang             33      31    36    41    15    21    21    21         -     -    105    120
Palembang          18      24    10    16       4    12      6     5      -     -      38     57
Jabotabek          38      38    54    54    18    18    24    23         -     -    134    133
Bandung            39      43    57    67       6    11      8     9      -     -    110    130
Semarang           49      51    82    8S    17    17    10    12         7     9    165    174
Yogyakarta         32      34    28    33       5     -      9    14      -     -      74     81
Surabaya           44      49    78    82            12    14    18       -     -    145    161
Banjarmasin        So      48    51    48       0    20    12    13    18       -    151    129
u3jung Pandang     27      31    52    68       2     2      4     4    17    19    102    124
Manado             21      25    19    18       5     4      4     4      -     1      49     52
Denpasar           50      53    49    54       -     -    34    37       1     1    134    145
Mataram            25      29    33    35       2     7    12    15       -     -      72     86
Total          447    490   584   640   127   148   166   185    48    36  1,372  1,499
Sources Bank Indonesia.



- 41 -                              Table 17
SPID Xmplementation Rates, 1984-87
(a)
RPMU                                  1984       1985        1986        1987
Medan                                   40          38         35          86
Padang                                  80         83          85          78
Palembang                               17         50          38          56
Jabotabek                               70          51         48          49
Bandung                                 82         72          71          64
Semarang                                65         59          58          77
Yogyakarta                              44          66         62          58
Surabaya                                56         52          50          45
Banjarmasin                             47          51         47          51
Ujung Pandang                           47          52         54          53
Nanado                                  43          55         54          54
Denpasar                                59          50         8o          92
Mataram                                 69          66         62          58
Average                            55         57          56          59
Sources Bank Indonesia.



