Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4956-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONES IA
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 4, 1984
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
IThis document bas a restricted distribution and my be used by recipients only in the performanc of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed witbout World BDnk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00            =  1,000
Rp 1.00            =  US$0.0010
Rp 1 million       =  US$1,000
FISCAL YEAR
Government      -  April 1 to March 31
Bank Indonesia - April 1 to March 31
State Banks     -  January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ASKRINDO      -   Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation
BAPINDO       -   Development Bank of Indonesia
BI            -   Bank Indonesia
BRI           -   Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CPMU          -   Central Project Management Unit
CSCD          -   Cooperative and Small Credit Department
DG-SI (MOI)   -   Directorate General of Small Industry
(Ministry of Industry)
KIB           -   General Investm2at Credits
KIK           -   Small Investment Credit
KMKP          -   Small Permanent Working Capital Credit
LPPI          -   Institution for the Development of Banking
in Indonesia
iOI           -   Ministry of Industry
RDB           -   Regional Development Bank
RPMU          -   Regional Project Management Unit
SEDP          -   Small Enterprise Development Project
SSE           -   Small-Scale Enterprises



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRA.SAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary               ..     ......................  ....  i-ii
1.   THE SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE (SSE) SECTOR ...................    1
Definition ..I.........................                         1
Scope and Characteristics of SSEs ...................           1
SSE Promotion Policies ..............    5
II.  THE FINALNCIAL SECTOR ...       ..     ....................... .    6
Financial Institutions ...               ..........    6
Background of Financial Policy Reform ................          7
Recent Financial Sector Policy Reforms   ...... ....    8
III. THE BANK'S STRATEGY IN THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR..............   10
The Bank's Involvement in the SSE Sector.............   11
IV. THE PROJECT R              O       JT..................  13
A.  Project Objectives and Description          . ..........   13
B.  The KIK/KMKP Programm................ ... ..    14
Background.                             .......  14
Scope and Terms of KIK/KMKP Lending.................    15
KIK/KKKP Lending Operations.                  .     .....      16
Quality of Portfolio......    .          . ............    18
Projected KIK/KMKP Lending.                      .       .   19
C.  Project Management and Organization. ............    20
BRI Upgrading.                               .           . 22
Lending and Supervision Procedures...................   24
Studies and Surveys.                      .       ........  30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Indonesia in
September 1983 followed by a post-appraisal mission in January 1983. Mission
members included: R. G. David (Mission Leader), K. Siraj, K. McCollom,
S. Brushett, K. Marsden, C. Delvoie, S.M.P. Suriyaarachchi (World Bank) and
D. Sen (Consultant). Mr. A. Hasan (World Bank) contributed the section of the
report pertaining to Bank Rakyat Indonesia.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
V.   THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN ...................................0  31
Project Cost and Financing ...........................   31
Features of the Proposed Loan .......................0  34
Project Benefits and Risks ............... ........ 0    37
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS ....   38
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Bank Indonesia's KIK/KMKP Program
Table 1:  Annual KIK Loan Approvals by Province and Sector
Table 2:  Characteristics of KIK Loan Approvals
Table 3:  Characteristics of Annual KMWP Approvals
Table 4:  RIK/KMKP Lending Outstanding by Handling Banks
Table 5:  Percentage of KIK/KMKP Loans in Handling Banks' Portfolios
Table 6: Projected KIK/KMXP Approvals, 1984-87
Table 7:  Training Achievements, 1980-83
Table 8:  Consultants' Position as of January 1, 1984
2.  Projected Disbursements of the World Bank Loan for SEDP III, 1984-87
3.  Selected Data and Documents Availa'le in the Project File
4. Policy and Strategy Statement for the Development of the KIK/KMKP Program
5. Tables to be Included in Reporting Requirements for SEDP III
6. Draft Supplemental Letter
7. Summary Terms of Reference for ASKRINDO Review
8. Plan of Action for Improving the Quality of the KIK/KMKP Loan Portfolio
CHART: Organization of Bank Indonesia
MAP: IBRD 15515R - Location of RPMUs



INDONESIA
THIRD SMAIL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:      Bank Indonesia (BI) and Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
Amount:             $204.65 million equivalent (including a capitalized
front-end fee of $0.51 million).
Terms:             The proposed loan would be made at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate and would have a term of 20 years
including 5 years of grace.
Relending Terms:   The Government of Indonesia would relend $202.9 million
equivalent to Bank Indonesia at a fixed interest rate which
would be the same as the Bank rate prevailing at the time
of Loan signing and would thus bear the risk of any inter-
est rate fluctuation on the Bank loan; the Government would
relend, at an interest rate of 3% p.a., $1.75 million to
BRI. The Government's subsidiary loans to BI and BRI would
have a repayment term of 20 years, including 5 years of
grace. The foreign exchange risk would also be borne by
the Government. The end-user rate under the credit
component of the project is currently 12% p.a.
Project
Description:     The fixed investment and working capital (KIK/KMKP) credit
component of the project would assist the Government from
mid-1984 to mid-1986 in financing small enterprise projects
nationwide in nearly all economic sectors. It is expected
that through the provision of credit, additional employment
opportunities would be created and the incomes of small
entrepreneurs would be improved. Approximately
173,000 subloans would be made. The working capital (KMKP)
financing is expected to particularly help small entrepre-
neurs keep their businesses functioning during the present
prolonged recession. The credit component of the proposed
loan helps to finance KIK/KMKP loans committed over a two-
year period. The technical assistance component is
designed to: (a) strengthen BI's management of the
KIK/KMKP program by providing appropriate advisors; and
(b) improve the capacity of the handling banks to implement
the KIK/KMKP program with particular attention being given
to the needs of BRI.



- ii -
The project faces moderate risks. BI is committed to
making major improvements in its management and adminis-
tration of the project in order to improve the handling
banks' capabilities in implementing the KIK/iOAKP program.
The growing arrears problem associated with KIK/KMKP lend-
ing is being addressed by an Action Program which has been
agreed upon by BI and the Bank, and by specific technical
assistance to BRI, the handling bank with the highest
arrears.  With regard to KMKP lending, which the Bank would
be reimbursing for the first time under the proposed
project, new appraisal, disbursement and amortization
procedures have been agreed with BI which should help
ensure that loans are used for the purposes intended.
Furthermore, a post-disbursement review of KNKP loans
initially financed under the project would be completed by
September 30, 1985, and would show whether these new
procedures are adequate or whether further modifications
would need to be introduced during the course of project
implementation.
==( remillion)        -
Local      Foreign      Total
Estimated Cost:
Credit component                       466.00     310.00      776.00
Technical assistance                    17.04       10.61      27.65
Total Project Cost                483.04     320.61      803.65
Front-end fee on Bank loan                -          0.51       0.51
Total Financing Required         483.04      321.12      804.16
Financing Plan:
Proposed Bank loan (including
front-end fee)                      4.88     199.77      204.65
Government/BI                          375.40      58.00      433.40
Handling banks                         100.26       58.00     158.26
Other donors                             2.50       5.35        7.85
Total                          483.04      321.12      804.16
Estimated
Disbursements:                    IBRD FY:      FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
Annual         25.01   85.30   71.44   22.90
Cumulative    25.01  110.31  181.75  204.65
Rate of Return: N.A.



INDONESIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE (SSE) SECTOR
Definition
1.01      Various definitions of small-scale enterprises (SSEs) are used in
Indonesia, making it difficult at times to coordinate and formulate consistent
policies affecting the SSE sector. The manufacturing industry surveys con-
ducted by the Central Bureau of Statistics define small enterprises as estab-
lishments with 5 to 19 persons engaged, with or without machine power. Those
with 1 to 4 persons are called household establishments. In determining
eligibility for its small-scale loan programs, Bank Indonesia (BI) places an
upper limit on the borrower's net worth (total assets excluding land minus
total liabilities) of Rp 100 million ($100,000) for manufacturing and con-
struction enterprises and Rp 40 million ($40,000) for enterprises in other
sectors. Because of data constraints, this report relies largely on the
employment size definition, using the term SSEs to cover enterprises with 1 to
19 workers engaged in all economic activities.
Scope and Characteristics of SSEs
1.02      Manufacturing.  Comprehensive data indicating the relative
importance of SSEs in each sector are not available. For the manufacturing
sector, the 1974/75 census and the 1979 industry survey showed the distribu-
tion of establishments, employment and value-added by employment size, but
gave no information on investment or capital stock. Table 1.1 summarizes the
findings.



- 2 -
Table 1.1: PRINCIPAL INDICATORS FOR LARGE/MEDIUM, SMALL AND HOUSEHOLD
MANUFACTURING ESTABLISHMENTS, 1974/75 AND 1979
Large/medium a/   ---- Small a/            Household a/
1974/75     1979      1974/75    1979      1974/75       1979
No. of estab-
lishments          7,091      7,960    48,186  113,024   1,234,511  1,417,802
% distribution        0.55        0.52      3.74      7.34        95.71      92.14
No. of persons
engaged          661,704    870,019   343,240  827,035   3,899,856  2,794,833
% distribution       13.49      19.37       7.00    18.41        79.51       62.22
Value-added
(Rp mln)        476,947  1,660,459    53,027  187,323         82,564    291,442
Z distribution       77.86      77.62       8.66      8.76        13.48      13.62
Value-added per
person engaged
(Rp'000)           720.8    1,908.5      154.5    226.5         21.2       104.3
a/   Household firms employ 1 to 4 persons, small firms employ 5 to 19 persons
and large/medium firms employ in excess of 19 people.
Source: 1974/75 Census of Manufacturing and 1979 Survey of Manufacturing,
Bureau of Statistics.
1.03      There were over 1.5 million small-scale and household manufacturing
establishments in 1979, employing over 80% of the 4.5 million persons engaged
in manufacturing activities. However, SSEs accounted for less than a quarter
of total manufacturing value-added because of substantially lower vaLue-added
per worker than in large-/medium-scale industry. Between 1974/75 and 1979,
the SSE share of value-added remained remarkably constant. But employment in
household industry dropped by over one million, reflecting a rapid growth in
productivity in household establishments (from a very low base) and a shift in
employment to small and large/medium enterprises. Overall, manufacturing
employment declined by 8% over this period, while value-added rose by 76% in
constant prices, giving an employment elasticity of -0.10. For the small
household sector alone it was -0.18. Although productivity, and perhaps
income levels, were raised in this sector in line with national objectives,
the Government's other main goal in promoting SSE development--providing jobs
for the burgeoning labor force-has not been achieved in manufacturing indus-
try in recent years. A closer scrutiny of the pattern of employment by sub-
sector reveals that the decline in SSE jobs was concentrated in the textile



and garment, wood and wood products industries while significant increases
were registered in food prccassing and in metal products and machinery.
1.04      Distribution of Employment.  In the other economic sectors, rough
estimates of the number of enterprises and the distribution of employment can
be derived from the 1980 Population Census tabulations of the labor force by
economic activity and employment status. These estimates are given in
Table 1.2.
Table 1.2: DISTRIBUTION OF ENTERPRISES AND EKPLOYMENT BY SECTOR, 1980
Share of SSEs
Sector                            Employment   Enterprises /a    in employment /b
(OO's)       (000's)           A      X    B
Agriculture                           28,040       16,348           83         92
Mining and Quarrying                     369          180          59          80
Manufacturing                          4,361        1,684          48          73
Electricity, Gas and Water                85           17          23          49
Construction                           1,573          551           38         59
Wholesale and Retail Trade,
Hotels and Restaurants                 6,611        5,213           90         95
Transport and Communications           1,468          662          48          64
Banking, Insurance, Real Estate
and Business Services                    232           25           10         53
Public and Other Services              7,739        2,321          36          67
Not Stated                               666            -            -
Total                           51,144       27,001           71          85
Notes:  /a  Derived from numbers of self-employed and employers.
/b  Estimate A assumes that SSE employment consists of self-employed,
employers and family workers only, with no paid employees. Estimate
B assumes that 50% of paid employees are engaged in SSEs.
Source: Population Census 1980, Bureau of Statistics and World Bank estimates.



- 4 -
1.05      The total number of enterprises including those engaged in farming,
fishery, forestry and livestock was estimated to exceed 27 million in 1980.
Most were very small, with an average of less than two persons employed. In
fact, a quarter of the labor force was self-employed. SSEs probably accounted
for between 71% and 85% of total employment throughout the Indonesian
economy. SSEs were especially predominant in agriculture and trade, which
together provided two-thirds of the jobs.
1.06      Economic Role of SSEs.  Although the share of SSEs in total
employment is likely to decline in the future, their present preponderance
means that they will need to provide jobs for most of the newcomers to the
labor force, at least for the rest of the decade. But their economic role is
not confined to employment creation. They are the main source of income for
at least three out of every four families. They help to mobilize private
savings and put them to productive use. They promote the use of local raw
materials and they provide a high proportion of basic goods and services for
the population. In Indonesia, small farms are responsible for the bulk of
staple food production and account for a significant proportion of export
crops such as oil palm, rubber, coffee and pepper. In manufacturing, the
relative contribution of SSEs is greatest in domestic resource-based
industries, such as furniture and other wood/rattan products, rice milling,
bakery products, bricks and roof tiles. In construction, SSEs account for
most projects, where their flexibility is a valuable asset. Private operators
of trucks and buses assure much of the transport of goods and people between
villages and towns and between the home and the place of work. In particular,
rapid expansion of competitive, low fare mini-bus services in recent years has
increased personal mobility and improved market access of the rural
population. Small wholesale and retail traders are essential intermediaries
between many producers and consumers, widening their markets and range of
choice, financing and holding convenient stocks of raw materials and finished
products and ensuring a closer match between what is produced and what the
customers want. Traders perform vital economic functions and generate about
15% of GDP. Finally, SSEs are also well represented among other services,
ranging from accountants and dentists to laundries and repair shops. These
services help to keep the wheels of the economy turning smoothly and add to
the general well-being of the population.
1.07      Although the evidence is fragmentary, on the whole, SSEs appear to
use their resources efficiently. Labor productivity tends to be lower than in
large firms, especially in the manufacturing sector. But this reflects sub-
stantially lower levels of capital investment per worker and more primitive
technology. A sample of 64 firms financed under SEDP I revealed that incre-
mental capital/labor ratios in SSEs were as low as Rp 820,000 ($820) in agri-
culture, Rp 625,000 ($625) in manufacturing, Rp 3,900,000 ($3,900) in trade
and Rp 1,800,000 ($1,800) in transport and other services. The overall aver-
age was Rp 1,785,000 ($1,785).
1.08      Credit Needs.  The output generated by incremental investment seems
to be relatively high. A sample of 480 SSEs surveyed in 1983 showed that each
Rp 1,000 of credit received by these firms was associated with an increase in
annual production of Rp 1,890, on the average (para. 3.05). The credit needs
of SSEs cover both fixed and working capital. The need for working capital



may be quantitatively more important for many SSEs at this juncture. This is
reflected in the pattern of BI's credit program for SSEs, with about two-
thirds of outstanding loans going for working capital. There seems little
doubt that the costs of maintaining inventories of raw materials, spare parts,
work-in-progress and finished goods, and the costs of paying wages and of
meeting the subsistence needs of family workers during periods of slack
demand, are significant financial burdens on SSEs. They represent real
capital costs of operating a business and providing jobs, costs which are no
less crucial or onerous than the cost of acquiring fixed assets. Availability
of working capital credit from financial institutions also reduces the
dependence of SSEs on the other major external sources of short-term capital
(traders and money lenders) who may exact too high a price for its provi-
sion. Access, convenience and timely availability of credit may be more
important to SSE borrowers than low interest rates, although rates in the
informal market are often prohibitively high, thus limiting the business
activities of those enterprises that do not have access to formal markets.
SSE Promotion Policies
1.09      Apart from the provision of credit, the Government also seeks to
promote indigenous SSE development through a variety of interventions involv-
ing free or subsidized inputs and through administrative controls. The
Government provides the bulk of technical assistance to SSEs through extension
services comprising entrepreneurial/technical advice and training, production
inputs and facilities and marketing assistance through subcontracting arrange-
ments, provision of showrooms and sales campaigns. The main policy instru-
ments consist of tax and other incentives to promote the growth of certain SSE
products or SSE groupings such as producers' cooperatives; licensing is used
to regulate SSE activities in all sectors and prevent "saturation" of the mar-
ket for SSE products. The Government also has a reservation scheme which re-
stricts the manufacture of certain products to SSEs. Technical support to
SSEs is carried out by a number of government departments at both central and
regional levels and target groups are broadly defined along sectoral lines.
1.10      Due to the number and location of agencies involved in providing
assistance, considerable duplication exists and the impact of assistance on
SSEs has been mixed. Technical assistance agencies are not well-coordinated
and generally lack adequate resources and staff to carry out an effective
assistance program. The Directorate General of Small Industry (DG-SI) is
still building up its industrial extension capability through training of
extension services staff and development of commcr. service facilities. Due to
the number of agencies involved in providing technical support to SSEs, the
most pressing need is to foster closer coordination of assistance programs and
policies while efforts to strengthen various individual programs are timdcrway
(para. 1.11). The need for a central authority that could provide policy
guidance and overall coordination should be re-examined, in view of the need
to enhance the effectiveness of assistance efforts in this important sector.
Given the time needed to develop a full-fledged extension services capability,
there may also be a justification for limiting the focus of assistance to
certain dynamic segments of the SSE sector. As a first step towards better
coordination and more effective technical support for SSEs, it has been agreed
that BI would, in the context of the proposed project, administer a study to



be undertaken by appropriate consultants acceptable to the Bank which would
review the various technical assistance delivery mechanisms currently operat-
ing for SSEs as well as the existing goverrment policies which either promote
or constrain the development of the SSE sector. Because a number of govern-
ment agencies would be interested in the recommendations of the study, an
inter-ministerial steering committee (comprising representatives of the
Ministries of Industry and Finance, BAPPENAS and BI) would be established to
review the terms of reference of the study, progress in implementation and the
findings of the study. This study would be financed by the Bank and its
recommendations are expected to be furnished to the Bank for comment by
June 30, 1985. Agreement with BI on the terms of reference and timing of the
proposed study were confirmed at negotiations.
1.11      Strengthening Technical Support Services.  Under the Second Small
Enterprise Development Project (SEDP lI, Loan 2011-IND), a project component
was included to support and strengthen the industrial extension program of the
DGSI of the Ministry of Industry (MOI). The project provided $8.3 million (of
which $6.0 million came from the loan proceeds) for the procurement and
installation of machinery and equipment, laboratory and testing facilities and
training materials for industrial extension services; $1.0 million was
provided for technical assiscance designed to improve the industrial extension
services for SSEs. Progress in Implementing this component, however, has been
delayed for a number of reasons: delay in consultant r-cruitment; delays in
appointing suitable project counterpart staff; delays in the counterpart
Rupiah budget for 1982/83 due to the nationwide budgetary crisis; and major
personnel changes in DG-SI in March 1983. Twenty project studies have now
been completed for proposed Common Service Facilities to be developed under
the project. Given the problems of implementation encountered with the
technical assistance component provided to DG-SI under SEDP II and pending the
result of the study on SSE technical assistance agencies and policies to be
undertaken (para. 1.10), it is not proposed to allocate any further technical
assistance funds to support industrial extension under SEDP III.
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
Financial Institutions
2.01      The Indonesian financial sector comprises a banking system with Bank
Indonesia (BI) at the apex, five state-owncd commercial banks, 79 private
national commercial banks, 10 foreign banks, a state development bank (Bank
Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO)), 26 regional development banks (RDBs) and
three non-bank financial institutions which are principally engaged in
granting medium- and long-term credit and equity participation. Since the
reactivation of the Jakarta Stock Exchange in 1977, a capital market has also
begun to develop; however, it still remains small, only a few companies have
gone public and there is little activity in bonds.



2.02      BI plays a particularly important role in Indonesia's financial
system. In addition to its usual central banking functions, BI has tradition-
ally provided loans directly for certain large-scale investments by public
enterprises, and to priority economic sectors through special rediscount
facilities (liquidity credits). BI, in fact, has been the principal source of
funds for special credit programs for small- and large-scale enterprises,
providing 75-80% of funds for such programs through refinancing/liquidity
credits. The most important credit programs for SSEs are called the Kredit
Investasi Kecil (KIK) - small investment credit - and Kredit Modal Keria
Permanen (KMKP) - small permanent working capital credit.
2.03      The five state commercial banks dominate the commercial banking
system, and as of end-1982 accounted for 76% of deposits and 79% of advances
of deposit money banks. These banks are expected to lend primarily to
assigned sectors, but, in practice, there is much overlap of functions and
activities. The state banks also provide full foreign exchange facilities and
services. Given their extensive branch network, they are the major channels
of official development credit programs, including those for the small enter-
prise sector.
2.04      Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), the largest state commercial bank in
Indonesia, has been the main source of term finance for small enterprises.
BRI has also been the largest lender under the KIK/KQKP program, accounting
for 53X of the outstanding KIK/KMKP portfolio nationwide (para. 4.04). The
proposed project includes a technical assistance component for the
institutional improvement of BRI (paras. 4.21-4.23).
2.05      Apart from BAPINDO,_  the state development bank with 18 branches
nationwide, there are 26 RDBs located in the provinces and owned by regional
governments. Although designated as development banks, they have, up to now,
largely provided commercial services and treasury-type functions to regional
governments. The quality of these banks varies widely and their capital base
remains narrow. In recent years, they have undertaken term lending mainly
under the auspices of the KIK/KMKP and other Government-sponsored credit
programs, but much needs to be done especially to improve their staffing and
internal organization in order to transform them into proper development
banks. Since early 1980, BI has been implementing a program to upgrade the
operations of these banks.
Background of Financial Policy Reform
2.06      The Indonesian financial system, despite its rapid growth in recent
years, still remains at a relatively early stage of development. The degree
of monetization, as measured by the ratio of money supply to GDP, is lower
than that in comparable LDCs; access to banking facilities outside urban areas
is limited; the capital market is in its infancy; and the banking system
itself is characterized by a dearth of-medium- to long-term finance.
1/   The Bank Group has made six loans totaling $365.9 million to BAPINDO
since 1972 for onlending to mediumr and large-scale industrial and
maritime projects and institution-building of BAPINDO.



2.07      Until recently, the Government continued to util.ze large windfall
oil profits to provide additional resources to the banking system, on the one
hand, and monetary instruments - principally controls on interest rates,
credit ceilings and special rediscounting facilities/liquidity credits - to
regulate the cost and direction of credit, on the other. In addition to its
direct lending to public enterprises, BI provided special rediscounting
facilities/liquidity credits to state banks at very low interest rates for on-
lending to "priority" sectors and groups. BI also set deposit and lending
rates of state banks, while private and foreign banks were free to set their
own interest rates. The general structure of deposit and lending rates
remained fixed for long periods; and the level of interest rates generally
lagged behind the inflation rate, leading to negative or low positive real
interest rates. Given the fixed and low interest rates on one hand and
substantial infusions of oil surpluses on the other, credit ceilings became
necessary to control the expansion of credit; and within these overall
ceilings the allocation of credit between borrowers and between lending banks
was determined by a system of targets for priority lending and the differ-
ential incentives provided through the discount mechanism.
2.08      This system worked quite well in generally satisfying credit demand
and particularly in channeling resources to priority sectors and programs.
The main weaknesses of the system, however, were that: (a) it was considerably
dependent on the availability of oil profits; (b) there was excessive regula-
tion and dominance of BI (at the end of 1982, BI owned 43% of gross assets of
the organized financial system and another 40% was owned by the national
foreign exchange banks (mainly state banks)); (c) given the access to cheap
liquidity credits and demand deposits of public enterprises, there were few
incentives for state banks to mobilize private financial savings; (d) mandated
low interest rates discouraged savings, contributed to the misallocation of
resources and led to increased hidden subsidies from BI to support the
operations of state banks; (e) the complex discount facilities and selective
credit allocation approach became too cumbersome to administer and supervise,
and given the fungibility of money, desired objectives for use of funds were
not always reached; and (f) given the free foreign exchange regime and a some-
what over-valued Rupiah, fixed low interest rates encouraged the outflow of
capital, creating pressure on official reserves and the balance of payments.
Recent Financial Sector Policy Reforms
2.09      The reduction of oil prices and the international recession contri-
buted to a deterioration in Indonesia's medium-term economic outlook. Faced
with a tight balance of payments situation and erosion of budgetary surpluses,
the Government, in early 1983, announced a major economic reform package which
included a significant (39%) devaluation of the Rupiah on March 30, 1983, a
stringent budget for 1983/84, domestic oil price increases, reductions in
subsidies and rephasing of the public investment program. Complementary
reforms in the financial sector were introduced on June 1, 1983 aimed at
increasing domestic resource mobilization and financial intermediation,
increasing efficiency of resource use and providing greater operational flex-
ibility to commercial banks. The major reforms included a liberalization of
interest rates, a reduction in the scope of rediscounting facilities/liquidity
credits and the abolition of credit ceilings. State banks were allowed to set



- 9 -
their own deposit rates as well as lending rates for all nonpriority programs,
placing them on much the same footing as private banks in this regard. The
scope of rediscounting facilities (virtually all state bank lending was
eligible for refinancing earlier) was reduced, and the lending rates for most
of the remaining programs for which rediscounting is offered at subsidized
rates (which had varied from 6.0% to 13.5% earlier) have been unified at 12%.
2.10      During the four months following these reforms, several noteworthy
changes in the operations of the banking system have taken place. Deposit and
lending rates, especially of state banks, have risen sharply; deposit rates
increased from 6-9% p.a. earlier, for 3-24 month time deposits, to 17-18%
p.a., and lending rates increased from around 13% earlier to 21-24% p.a. for
working capital loans. The rise in deposit rates has led to a sharp increase
(28% in nominal terms) in time deposits of the banking system (especially of
state banks), and, together with the devaluation, has also encouraged sizeable
capital inflows, resulting in a significant improvement of foreign exchange
assets of the banking system. A slowdown in the demand for credit has also
taken place (bank credit increased by only 5% between end-May and end-
September 1983). These developments, coinciding with the recession in the
economy, have led to some excess liquidity of the banking system.
2.11      In the present transitory stage of adjustment of the financial
sector to recent reforms, it is difficult to predict the movement of interest
rates, but there are reasons to believe that they could decline in the near
term.  The domestic inflation rate has declined sharply and for 1983 did not
exceed 12% p.a. The Government seems to be committed to a tight monetary
policy stance and, given the prognosis of modest rates of inflation abroad,
domestic price pressures are unlikely to be high.
2.12      The recent reforms will have some important implications for lending
to small-scale enterprises, as well as to other "priority" sectors. Banks are
now expected to be increasingly independent and to make lending decisions
themselves. Given the increased cost of funds, banks will be unwilling to
lend to priority sectors unless they can cover the increased costs of funds,
risks of lending to such sectors and profit margins which could be earned from
alternative lending opportunities. It is also necessary to encourage banks
increasingly to mobilize more domestic resources and commit them to priority
lending instead of relying on BI's liquidity credits as in the past. To
achieve these objectives, it would be necessary to ensure that handling banks
participating in KIK/KMKP, as well as other "priority" programs, receive
adequate spreads and to gradually bring interest rates on priority credit
programs more closely in line with market rates. Alternatively, banks could
be explicitly subsidized through a combination of liquidity credits and
budgetary allocations to encourage lending to the priority sectors. However,
care should be taken in devising such mechanisms to ensure that there is
adequate incentive for handling banks to channel more of their own resources
to KIK|KMKP and other priority programs and to improve supervision and
collection performance.
2.13      The Government and BI recognize the need to raise the interest rates
under preferential credit programs to bring them more closely in line with
market rates. They are, however, reluctant to raise them at this particular



- 10 -
particular time because the interest rate structure (including raising of
lending rates for KIK loans from 10.5% to 12%) was overhauled only recently
(June 1, 1983).  They also believe that interest rates in Indonesia are likely
to continue to fluctuate as they adjust to the market following the financial
reform and that market rates are likely to decline during the coming year. BI
would like to see the interest rate system stabilize before taking any addi-
tional measures to adjust the level of interest rates; in any case, the rates
of preferential credit programs are expected to remain positive in real
terms. To support the KIK/KMKF program, the Government agreed during negotia-
tions to provide, as an explicit budget subsidy, the funds necessary to allow
the handling banks to earn an adequate return, given their current cost of
funds and the lending rate which is currently fixed at 12% (para. 4.05). The
Bank recognizes that the interest rate and subsidy issues must be evaluated in
a sector-wide context and, therefore, is planning, with Government agreement,
to undertake substantial financial sector work over the coming year. This
work will broaden the basis for the Bank's continuing policy dialogue with the
Government during the next few years. With respect to the implementation of
the proposed SEDP III project, the subsidy currently required by the handling
banks amounts to 1.5% p.a. In order to ensure that an adequate return con-
tinues to be received by the handling banks, the Government agreed to annually
review with BI the appropriateness of KIK/KMKP interest rates, taking into
consideration market conditions, thE administrative costs of handling banks
and the debt servicing capacity of SSE borrowers. This annual review would be
furnished to the Bank for comment, following which, the Government would take
all steps required to revise, if necessary, KIK/KMKP interest rates and the
level of subsidy provided to the handling banks. It was agreed during nego-
tiations that the handling banks would receive their subsidy payments on a
quarterly basis according to interest accrued on KIK/KMRP loans during the
quarter. Details regarding the operation of this subsidy are provided in a
supplemental letter, a draft of which was agreed upon at negotiations
(Annex 6).
III. THE BANK'S STRATEGY IN THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
3.01      The Bank's strategy in the industrial sector calls for assisting the
Government in its attempt to transform Indonesia's industrial base and posi-
tion the economy for steady, broad-based growth in the future. This policy-
based strategy is focused on three interrelated areas: (a) macroeconomic and
trade policy- (b) industrial subsector support; and (c) financial sector
development _
2/ Bank Group operations which have in the past supported the industrial
sector and/or the institutions responsible for industrial sector lending
include: six loans to BAPINDO, two loans to the Private Development
Finance Company of Indonesia, loans for fertilizer production, an
industrial estate loan, and the Smallholders and Private Tea Estates and
Rural Credit projects, which also provided technical assistance to BRI.



- 11 -
3.02      In the area of trade policy, the Bank is working closely with the
Government in mounting a program to stimulate nontraditional exports. Bank
collaboration in trade policy is supported by its economic and sector work
program and by Bank technical assistance on a range of export activities. The
Bank is also considering providing financial assistance for these activities
through an export project currently under preparation. At the macro level,
the overall policy dialogue with the Government on trade issues has focused
on, inter alia, a program of tariff reform. In that context, the Bank has
been instrumental in arranging for analytical work designed to update the 1975
analysis of effective protection and domestic resource cost. This effort
would provide a basis for a first general round of tariff cuts and reductions
in import restrictions. In the area of industrial subsector work, the major
objective is to formulate a strategy for developing key subsectors and an
appropriate policy mix for the subsector. Subsector studies on textiles, pulp
and paper, and engineering goods are completed or in progress, and initiatives
are underway for similar studies of the electronics industry, wood processing,
and cement. These studies may also identify projects through which the Bank
could provide support to the future development of the subsector. The sub-
sectoral approach allows the Bank to address such policy issues as tariffs,
industrial regulation and evaluation of public investment projects. This
focus is important because the Government would like co have a very clear
understanding of the actual costs of current policy, the potential dislocation
of various parts of industry which might accompany policy changes, mechanisms
to ease the adjustment process and the exact specification of needed reforms
before undertaking broad macro reforms.
3.03      In the area of financial sector development, the Bank would be
complementing the recent financial policy reform with an expanded program of
technical and financial assistance to improve the overall sector policy frame-
work (para. 2.13) and the capacity of the state banks to operate efficiently
in the new environment and to strengthen other financial institutions, parti-
cularly at the longer end of the market. The extensive technical and
financial assistance recently included under the latest BAPINDO project (Loan
2277-IND), and the institution-building recommended under the proposed
SEDP III project to support SSE lending are part of this development
strategy. Preliminary work would focus on evaluating the institutional and
operational policy issues confronting the banking system in trying to adjust
to the new policy environment. A financial sector study to be undertaken in
late 1984 would pay specific attention to, inter alia, setting long-term
interest rates and financial resource mobilization by the banking system.
The Bank's Involvement in the SSE Sector
3.04      The Bank's involvement in developing the SSE sector consists of
financial and technical assistance through the institutions responsible for
assisting the sector. An IDA credit of $40 million (Credit 785-IND) was
approved in FY78 for the first Small Enterprise Development Project (SEDP I),
which augmented BI resources for refinancing the principal term lending pro-
gram (KIK/KMKP) for SSEs in three regions. The project also sought to improve
the term lending skills of loan officers handling the program and to streng-
then the capacity of BI and the handling banks in administering the program.
Following the generally satisfactory implementation of SEDP I, the scope of



- 12 -
the project was extended nationwide and the Bank approved in FY81 a loan of
$106 million for SEDP II (Loan 2011-IND), which was designed to continue
financial and technical assistance to the KIK/KMKP program and to strengthen
industrial extension services under the Department of Industry. The credit
components of SEDP I and II have been disbursed on schedule. BI, however,
delayed commitment of the $9.5 million technical assistance component of the
SEDP I IDA czodit, as bilateral and multilateral grants were made available to
the project and the MOI's DG-SI has also been very slow in utilizing the
$6.0 million technical assistance component allocated under SEDP II
(para. 1.11). DG-SI has been able to only commit a small part ($0.1 million)
of the $6.0 million allocated to it. Considerable progress, however, is
beginning to be made.
3.05      The Economic Impact of SEDP.  Through its regular bank and credit
supervision, in general, BI ensures that the proceeds of the KIK/KKKP loans
accrue to intended SSE beneficiaries and are used for the stated productive
purposes. In addition, BI also selectively, but with more depth, examines
KIK/KMKP portfolios of particular handling banks, and under SEDP I and II has
commissioned special surveys to further determine the development impact of
the KIX/KMKP program. The Bank has been instrumental in the drawing up of
terms of reference for these studies and their methodology. Both surveys have
shown generally positive development impact. The main findings of the SEDP I
survey showed that nearly 60% of sampled KIK/KAKP loan recipients have hired
additional workers (ranging from 1-5 persons per firm), with the rest being
able to sustain their existing labor force. The same survey showed that about
70% of the firms have more than doubled their output as a result of expanded
capacity utilization made possible by the KIK/KMKP credits received. A small
but representative sample of 64 credit recipient firms showed output rising by
an average of 62% as a result ma'inly of the credits obtained. Under SEDP II,
a much larger sample survey of 1,300 clients in the regions of East Java,
North Sumatra and South Sulawesi has been undertaken and is being finalized.
The survey generally confirmed the growth trends in incremental employment and
output noted in the SEDP I survey. The key findings are that for each
Rp 1,000 of credit obtained under the program, the value of output of the
sample firms increased an average Rp 1,890 (para. 1.08), whereas employment
(expressed in incremental wages earned per day) increased on average by
Rp 290. In terms of incremental job creation, the survey showed that the
additional credit played a role in the growth of new employment particularly
in garment manufacturing, transport, wholesale raw materials and to a lesser
extent in retail trade. In aggregate, over the period 1979-81, employment
increases that can be attributed mainly to KIK/KMKP credits were 39% and
production increases 36%.
3.06      Institutional Impact of SEDP I and II.  The overall objective of the
technical assistance components of the Bank loans for SEDP I and II was to
strengthen BI's KIK/KMKP program management, procedures and planning and to
strengthen the handling banks' capacity for KI/K.MKKP lending, primarily
through loan officer training. Some significant steps have been taken towards
realizing these objectives: the basic institutional framework for central and
regional program management has been established and training targets are
being met in quantitative terms. Nonetheless, the degree of success in some
areas has not been as great as anticipated at the time of the appraisals.



- 13 -
Some problems of internal coordination in BI and overall program management
remain, despite BI's recent reorganization of the Loan Department
(para. 4.15), and much has yet to be done in terms of elimination of func-
tional overlaps. The inadequacy of BI's information system is very apparent,
though some attempts at improvement have been made. The implementation of an
improved system is a high priority under SEDP III (para. 4.35), as the focus
of the program shifts from expanding the amount of lending towards improving
the quality of lending and reducing loan arrears. There is also a need to
evaluate the results of the training program undertaken to date. Under
SEDP III, BI, through its Institution for the Development of Banking in
Indonesia (LPPI), has agreed to undertake an evaluation of its training
courses conducted under SEDP II. LPPI would incorporate its findings in a
report which would be provided to the Bank by December 31, 1984. An under-
standing confirming this arrangement was reached at negotiations.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
4.01      Project Objectives.  The rapid build-up of financial resources gen-
erated by oil revenues beginning in the mid-1970s has permitted the expansion
of the KIK/KMKP credit program, particularly over the last five years.  Today
this program is the main source of institutional finance for SSEs in virtually
all economic sectors. For this reason, GOI considers this program to be of
high priority and is committed to its continued implementation in the next
Five Year Plan period (1984/85 - 1988/89). With increasing budgetary
constraints, however, the fiscal resources available for this priority program
have become more scarce and GOI has requested the Bank for a third SEDP loan
to enable it to continue, without interruption, the KIK/KMKP lending program
and the institution-building efforts initiated under SEDP I and II. The
provision of financial resources would encourage the development of the SSE
sector by enabling SSEs to utilize fully their existing capacity (much of
which has been idle during the recent recession) through the provision of
working capital finance and by financing the new investments of SSEs with
funds obtained on reasonable terms. However, even with the Bank loan,
KIK/KMKP lending is not expected to grow as rapidly as in the past, since BI
and the handling banks are now concentraring their efforts on consolidating
and improving the quality of their KIK/KZKP portfolios. The institution-
building objectives of this project would aim at supporting these financial
institutions in strengthening the administration of the program by emphasizing
improved project management and monitoring by BI and by helping the handling
banks to continue to improve both their project appraisal and supervision
capabilities as well as to increasingly accept more of the financial and
institutional responsibilities of KIK/KMKP lending. Finally, under SEDP III,
special attention will be given to improving the management and operations of
BRI, the largest of the five state commercial banks and the single largest
participant in the KIK/KMKP program.



- 14 -
4.02      Project Description.  The proposed project includes:
(a)  a credit component to finance the nationwide KIK/KKKP program for
two years (from mid-1984 to mid-1986); and
(b)  a technical assistance component designed to:
(i) strengthen BI and handling banks in their administration,
implementation and monitoring of the KIK/KMKP lending program;
(ii)  improve the operational efficiency of BRI, the largest state
bank and the biggest participant in the KIK/KKKP program; and
(iii)  study various aspects of the SSE sector, including the
technical assistance support available to SSEs.
The operations of the KIK/KMKP program are described in Part B below.  The
management and organization of the project is discussed in Part C.
B. The KIK/KMKP Program
Background
4.03      In the early 1970s, the credit needs of the small-scale enterprise
sector were largely unmet, except by relatively expensive, short-term loans
through the informal market. In December 1973, therefore, the Government
introduced two special credit programs to finance the development of SSEs in
practically all economic sectors throughout Indonesia. Kredit Investasi Kecil
(KIK) loans are intended to provide medium- to long-term financing for the
acquisition of fixed assets. Kredit Modal Kerja Permanen (KMKP) loans are
intended to finance the permanent working capital needs of small-scale entre-
preneurs. BI has recently updated its Policy and Strategy Statement and dis-
cussed with the Bank during negotiations the revised statement (Annex 4). The
specific objectives of the KIK/KMKP program are: the creation of employment,
geographic dispersion of investment, development of entrepreneurship, local
market expansion and the general promotion of productive economic
activities.
4.04      BI administers the KIK/KMKP program through a rediscount mechanism
and is also responsible for providing policy direction and program monitor-
ing. State commercial banks, national and RDBs and private national banks,
collectively known as "handling banks," are responsible for appraising and
supervising KIK/KMKP loans which are then rediscounted by Bank Indonesia. In
aggregate, the handling banks have over 1,000 branch offices throughout the
country. The five state banks account for most of the KIK/KMKP lending (86%
of the amount of outstanding KIK/KMKP loans). Bank Rakyat Indonesia is the
most important, with 53% of the outstanding KIK/KMKP portfolio, followed by
Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 (BNI '46) with 13%, Bank Bumi Daya (BBD) with 10%,
Bank Dagang Negara (BDN) with 8% and Bank



- 15 -
Exspor-Im?or Indonesia (BEII) with 3%.  The sectoral specialization of the
state commercial banks has not been a constraint to KIK/KMIP lending as this
is not observed rigidly in practice. The importance of KIK/KMKP loans to the
handling banks varies significantly from bank to bank (Annex 1, Table 5). For
BRI, the largest participant in the program, KIK/KMKP loans account for 31% of
its outstanding loans; for BNI '46, 11% and for the remaining banks the
relevant percentage varies from 2-6%.
Scope and Terms of KIK/KMKP Lending
4.05      To improve SSE access to term credit, the eligibility requirements,
as well as the terms and conditions of KIK/KMKP loans, were designed to be
attractive and practical for both SSE borrowers and the handling banks. With
regard :o SSE borrowers, two types of KIK/KMKP loans exist:  "umum" loans
which are made to individual borrowers, and "massal" loans which are made for
group projects. As of December 1982, massal loans 3/ accounted for 16% of KIK
loans outstanding and 11% of outstanding KMKP loans. All productive activi-
ties undertaken by indigenous entrepreneurs in agriculture, industry, trade,
transportation and services are eligible for KIK/KMKP financing, with the
exception of those subsectors that from time to time may be declared
"saturated" by the Government. Although BI's collateral guidelines specify
that the "project being financed is the main collateral," additional collat-
eral of up to 5OZ of the loan amount may be, and usually is, requested by the
handling bank. The maximum maturity for KIK loans is ten years, including a
maximum grace period of four years; KMKP loans, which would continue to be
granted on a line of credit basis under the project, have a maximum maturity
of five years, including a maximum grace period of one year. If a KMKP loan
is rescheduled, the maximum maturity period may be increased to seven years.
The present lending rate is 12% for both KIK and KMKP loans. Borrowers may
obtain up to Rp 15 million ($15,000) under each type of credit.
4.06      With regard to the handling banks, the KIK/KMKP program has been
attractive for three main reasons: the guarantee coverage provided by the
Indonesian Credit Guarantee Corporation (ASKRINDO), the proportion of
resources provided by BI a 0 the interest spreads obtained under the pro-
gram. All KIK/KMKP loans - made by handling banks carry an automatic 75%
credit guarantee from ASKRINDO. The premium charged for ASKRINDO coverage is
a 3% one-time fee for loans made with a duration of up to five years, which is
shared equally by BI and the handling bank. For loans which have a maturity
of over five years, the premium increases to 5% shared on a 2:1 ratio between
BI and the handling banks. During the period 1979-82, some bottlenecks devel-
oped in ASKRINDO's claims settlement procedures resulting in considerable
3/   Under both SEDP I and II, as well as the proposed SEDP III, massal loans
are not eligible for Bank financing.
4/   For "massal" type loans, ASKRINDO evaluates each program before agreeing
to provide its guarantee coverage.



- 16 -
delays to the handling banks. Following an understanding reached with the
Bank under SEDP II, the Government, BI and ASKRINDO introduced the necessary
procedural changes in 1982 which have had very positive results and thus the
claims settlement problem has been resolved.
4.07      In the past two years, some additional issues with regard to the
scope and cost of ASKRINDO's coverage have emerged. Since 1980, there has
been a dramatic rise in the claims made by handling banks on ASKRINDO's guar-
antees. The actual claims made increased by 50% in 1981, 124% in 1982 and 602
in the first eight months of 1983.  Correspondingly, actual claims settled by
ASKRINDO jumped by 72% in 1981 and 318% in 1982. In the likely event of this
trend continuing, ASKRINDO will soon need government financial support to
cover its obligations. This development is felt to be due in part at least to
weaknesses in ASKRINDO's guarantee cover policy: (a) the premium charged is
low in comparison to the risks involved; and (b) the substantial coverage
(75%) provided does not give enough incentive to the handling banks to be more
careful in project selection at the time of making loans and to pursue vigor-
ously loan supervision and collection. During negotiations, the Government
and BI agreed to address these and other issues in the context of the proposed
project and recommended that a general review of ASKRINDO's operations, finan-
cial structure, management and development strategy be undertaken. The basic
objectives of the review are to: (a) identify measures which would lead to
making ASKRINDO a self-sustaining and efficient credit insurance institution;
and (b) improve the effectiveness of ASKRINDO in terms of providing adequate
incentives to both ASKRINDO and banks to improve loan collections. Further
aspects of the review are presented in the attached Summary Terms of Reference
for ASKRINDO Review (Annex 7). Based on the findings of the review (which is
to be completed by November 1984), the Government will, by December 31, 1984,
prepare and thereafter implement an action program, satisfactory to the Bank,
for the changes which would need to be introduced in ASKRINDO.
KIK/KMKP Lending Operations
4.08      Volume of Lending.  Both KIK and KMXP lending operations steadily
increased over the 1974-81 period. KIK loans have increased from Rp 15.3 bil-
lion in 1974 to Rp 172.3 billion in 1981 for an average annual growth rate of
about 41%; growth was particularly rapid in the 1978-81 period when annual
approvals increased at an average rate of about 73% (Annex 1, Table 1). IKMKP
lending grew from Rp 15.6 billion in 1974 to Rp 371.0 billion in 1981, for an
average annual rate of about 57%; for the 1978-81 period, annual KMKP
approvals grew at a rate of nearly 94% p.a. (Annex 1, Table 3). In 1982,
however, KIK lending substantially declined by 16% to Rp 144.2 billion; loan
approvals for 1983 amounted to only Rp 85.7 billion. The decline in KIK
lending has been particularly sharp in some handling banks: BRI experienced a
48% decline in the number of its KIK approvals in 1,82 and a 46% decline in
terms of the amount approved; for BNI '46 the declines were 38% by number and
34% by amount; and for BBD it was 48% by number and 40% by amount. Surpris-
ingly, KIK approvals by the RDBs and private banks continued to grow both in
number and amount, although from a small base. In 1982, KMKP lending declined
marginally by 1.6% to Rp 365.1 billion; KMKP operations slowed further in 1983
with approvals amounting to Rp 231.3 billion.



- 17 -
4.09      The reasons for the overall decline in growth of KIK/KMKP lending
over the last two years are varied. SSE entrepreneurs, like their medium- to
large-scale counterparts, have been adversely affected by the worldwide
recession. As demand for their output has declined. SSEs have had to decrease
production, and hence, their demand for credit, and particularly fixed invest-
ment credit, has declined. Secondly, it appears that by 1981, the handling
banks reached what they considered to be an optimum level of operation, given
their staff resources and the perceived returns of the program. In addition,
growing arrears (para. 4.11) may have caused the handling banks, and partic-
ularly the larger participating state banks, to take a more cautious approach
to future KIK/KMKP lending. It, therefore, appears that the rapid expan-
sionary period of the KIK/KMKP program is over, as the handling banks move to
consolidating and improving the quality of their KIK/KMKP loans. Moreover,
the bulk of demand for credit is likely to be for working capital until such
time as economic recovery generates a demand for longer-term fixed asset
financing.
4.10      Characteristics of KIK/KMKP Lending.  The characteristics of annual
KIK and KMKP approvals are presented in Annex 1, Tables 1-3 and are summarized
below.
(a)  Geographic distribution.  Both KIK and KMKP loans are well distri-
buted throughout the country. On a cumulative basis as of year-end
1983, Central, East and West Java account for about 41% of KIK
approvals, while Jakarta and Yogyakarta account for another 11% and
3%, respectively. With regard to KMKP lending, 52% has gone to
Central, East and West Java, but only 5X is accounted for by Jakarta
and 2% by Yogyakarta.
(b)  Sectoral distribution.  The sectoral distribution of KIK lending (by
amount) has remained relatively constant over the years. On a
cumulative basis, the trade sector (commerce, retail shops, hotels)
dominates with 32% of approvals; next in importance is the transpor-
tation sector (trucks, buses and mini-buses) with 27%, followed by
agriculture (14%), "other" (chiefly services sector) with 14% and
industry with 13%. The distribution for KMKP lending is 69% of
cumulative approvals for trade, 13% for "other" (services sector),
11% for industry, 6% for agriculture and 1% for transportation.
This pattern of lending basically reflects the structure of the
rural economy in which SSEs predominate in trade and agriculture
(para. 1.06).
(c)  Distribution by amount and maturity.  With regard to both KIK and
ICMKP lending, over the 1974-83 period, there has been a marked shifE
to larger size loans. During the 1974-78 period, 14% of KMKP loans
and 8% of KIK loans were less than Rp 1 million ($1,000 equivalent)
while 31% of M1KP loans and 40% of KIK loans were for more than Rp 5
million ($5,000 equivalent). As of year-end 1983, 4% of KMKP loans
and 1.5% of KIK loans were for less than Rp 1 million; 44% of KMKP
loans and 63.5% of KIK loans were for more than Rp 5 million. The
move to larger size loans reflects both the impact of inflation and
the preference of handling banks for larger loans in order to



- 18 -
decrease the administrative costs associated with KIK/KMKP
lending. Due to the very large number of small loans, the average
loan size remains relatively low for KIK and KMKP loans: in 1982,
the average KIK loan amounted to about Rp 4.7 million (about $4,700
equivalent), compared to Rp 1.9 million for the 1974-78 period; the
average loan size of KMKP loans has increased from Rp 0.4 million
for the 1974-78 period to Rp 2.2 million (about $2,200 equivalent)
by 1982. The distribution of KIK/KMKP loan approvals by maturity
has not varied widely since 1974. Based on cumulative approvals,
therefore, the weighted average maturity for KIK loans is 3.9 years
and for KMKP loans, the average is 2.2 years.
Quality of Portfolio
4.11      In the absence of a consolidated set of arrears/collection data,
the appraisal mission relied chiefly on data provided by the handling banks'
head offices to arrive at an estimate of arrears under the KIK/KMKP program.
Based on data representing about 75-80% of the outstanding KIK/KMKP portfolio,
arrears of principal and interest on XIK/KMKP loans seem to have increased
from 11% of the outstanding portfolio in 1980 to 25% as of December 31,
1983. The relatively low level of arrears in 1980 may largely be attributable
to the fact that the KIK/KMKP portfolio was expanding rapidly during this
period and a large volume of loans were still in the grace period. By 1982
and continuing into 1983, however, as KIK/KMKP lending ceased to expand and
the bulk of outstanding loans entered the repayment period, the magnitude of
the arrears problem became more evident. The seriousness of the arrears
problem, however, varies among handling banks and even among different
branches of the same handling bank. BRI has, by far, the worst situation with
an arrears ratio of 35% (12% in 1980); excluding BRI, the arrears ratio on the
KIK/KMKP portfolio is much lower at 10% (9% in 1980). In some banks, arrears
appear to be chiefly a function of a poor performing subsector, while in
others, lack of staff to supervise and collect loans is the major problem. As
for BRI, the portfolio condition manifests its fundamental structural and
institutional weaknesses discussed in paras. 4.21-4.23.
4.12      The proper management and control of arrears, usually more complex
in small credit programs such as the KIK/KMKP program, continues to be a major
concern of both BI and the Bank. Under the existing management information
systems of BI and the handling banks, however, it is still difficult to obtain
reliable and comprehensive data on arrears and collection rates. While BI
maintains several sets of arrears data and the handling banks also keep
detailed arrears information, the subjective manner by which arrears are
classified, coupled with substantial recording errors make analytical
comparisons among the different sets of data impossible. While it is expected
that the problems of collecting arrears data will be dealt with through
improvement in the handling banks' and BI's management information systems
(MIS), as discussed in para. 4.35, there is an immediate need to address this
problem of proper and meaningful arrears analysis. BI has agreed with the
Bank on the format and scope of arrears data which would need to be collected
under an improved MIS in the future, including provisions for information on
the age of arrears. Under SEDP III, BI is required to set up an arrears data
collection system whereby it would be able to generate, by March 31, 1985,



- 19 -
analysis of arrears as per the formats agreed upon with the Bank (para.
4.35).
4.13      BI and the handling banks now recognize the need for a comprehensive
set of measures to prevent further deterioration of the arrears situation and
to ensure that loans are supervised and monitored adequately to provide an
early warning system for problem accounts. Reform.1nd improvement of BI and
the handling banks' management information systems    will help to address the
latter problem (para. 4.35). Prior to negotiations, however, BI prepared a
KIK/KMKP portfolio review in consultation with the handling banks and BI's
Regional Project Management Units (RPMUs). This review focussed on the causes
of KIK/KMKP arrears in the 10 worst performing branches of each of the five
state banks. Using this review, BI prepared an action program which was dis-
cussed with the Bank during negotiations. Based on these discussions the
action program was modified and is presented as Annex 8. The action program
contains specific recommendations to improve the handling banks' project
appraisal, implementation and supervision. In addition, it sets out the
minimal collection rates which are acceptable to BI. If a handling bank falls
below these rates, special remedial actions are required of the handling bank
and its branch.
Projected KIK/KMKP Lending
4.14      As discussed in para. 4.09, it appears that the period of rapid
expansion of KIK/KMKP lending has come to an end as both BI and the handling
banks concentrate on consolidation and improvement in the quality of KIK/KMKP
loans. Accordingly, BI has prepared projections (Annex 1, Table 6) for
KIK/KMKP lending which show overall lending under the program increasing in
nominal terms by about 3% during 1983/84; 12% in 1984/85, and 15% in
1985/86.  In real terms, the size of the program will 64ecline in 1983/84;
remain constant in 1984/85 and grow by 5% in 1985/86 6   Given these projec-
tions, total funding required for KIK/KMKP lending over the two-year implemen-
tation period of the proposed loan (mid-1984 to mid-1986) would amount to
about Rp 776 billion ($776 million). KIK funding requirements would amount to
Rp 256 billion ($226 million), while KMKP funding over the two-year period is
projected to require Rp 550 billiorn ($550 million).
5/   The appraisal mission discussed with BI the need to introduce proper
booking procedures at the handling bank branch level to ensure proper
recording of arrears. Also, the mission discussed the need for the
handling banks to age arrears and calculate collection rates on a stan-
dardized, objective basis. Both of these sets of calculations have been
incorporated in the Bank's revised reporting requirements for SEDP III.
6/   Projected rates of inflation are 12% for 1983/84 and 1984/85, and 10% for
1985/86.



- 20 -
C. Project Management and Organization
4.15      As noted earlier, the KIK/KKKP program is administered by BI and
implemented by the handling banks. BI's administration of KIK/IKKP operations
is achieved at two levels. Fi5pt, at BI's head office, the Cooperative and
Small Credit Department (CSCD)- is responsible for overall KIK/KMKP adminis-
tration and monitoring. At the regional level, BI's regional offices perform
some minor administrative functions, whtle the RPMUs have been set up as
special units attached to the branches to focus on providing appropriate tech-
nical assistance to handling banks. The respective roles of the CSCD and
RPMUs are discussed below.
4.16      Program Management by CSCD.  The CSCD falls under the responsibility
of the BI Managing Director for Credit Operations and is organized into four
divisions: (a) the Cooperative Credit Division; (b) the Small Credit
Division; (c) the KIK/KMKP division; and (d) the Small Enterprise Development
Division which is also known as the Central Project Management Unit (CPMU).
The CPMU was originally established under SEDP I to administer and monitor the
Bank's loan, which was restricted to KIK lending in three provinces, and to
monitor the activities of the RPMUs. Under SEDP II, the scope of the Bank-
financed project was expanded to nationwide KIK lending and the difference in
responsibilities between the CPMU and KIK/KMKP division became less clear, so
that the KIK/KMKP division and CPMU currently experience considerable duplica-
tion of functions and internal coordination between the two divisions is a
problem. Under the proposed SEDP III, the Bank, for the first time, would
provide funding for KMKP loans; thus, there will no longer be any significant
difference between the Bank-financed project and the KIK/KMKP program. Given
this development, BI has focused on rationalizing the operations of the
CSCD. As a first step, BI has clearly delineated the responsibilities and
functions of the CPMU and KIK/KMKP divisions and has established formal
monthly meetings to improve cooperation between the two divisions. BI has
also revised the terms of reference (TORs) of the CPMU given its new
definition of responsibilities and the change in emphasis of the program from
expansion of lending operations to consolidation and strengthening the
administration of KIK/KMKP lend;.ng. These terms of reference were reviewed by
the Bank during negotiations and may be found in the project file.
4.17      The management of CSCD has also been facing a leadership vacuum and
continuity problem resulting from a major turnover in 1983 of senior- and
middle-level management positions in BI. In August 1983, the Managing
Director of BI's Credit Operations retired and was replaced by a new Managing
Director from the outside. Meanwhile, the General Manager of CSCD was
promoted, leaving management of CSCD to the Deputy General Manager on an
acting basis. These developments have contributed to the decline in the
effectiveness of program management, although the recent appointment of an
7/   CSCD was set up in 1982 following the reorganization of BI's old Loan
Department. Under the former system, the KIK/KMKP program was essential-
ly the responsibility of the Desk for Small Credits Ca division in the
Loan Department) and CPMU.



- 21 -
experienced Managing Director should have an immediate positive impact.
Furthermore, a new General Manager has recently been appointed to head CSCD
and to effectively become the project manager for SEDP III. Day-to-day
manag2ment of the project will become the chief responsibility of the Deputy
General Manager of the Department.. Finally, in order to strengthen Bl's
capacity for project management, BI will appoint a sufficient number of
qualified BI staff to work as counterparts to the CSCD advisors. Rotation of
these staff are to be minimized so that counterparts would work at least two
years with the advisors in order to accomplish effective transfer of
knowledge.
4.18      Program Management at the Regional Level.  The RPMUs operated under
SEDP I and II as regional focal points for expanding KIK/KMKP lending, provid-
ing on-the-job training for loan officers of the local handling bank branches
and to some extent monitoring programs on KIK/KHKP lending. RPMUs are now
established in 13 regions which account for over 80% of KIK/KMKP lending. The
RPMUs are usually staffed by five consultants and one BI staff. Adequate
staffing of the RPMUs has not been a problem to date as many of the
consultants are funded through bilateral aid programs. The RPM.Us have chiefly
been involved (about 70% of their time) in preparing project identification
(SPID) reports which are distributed to handling banks to encourage th1eir
finLancial support to the sectors studied and to promote the expansion of the
KIK/KMKP program. As of August 1983, a total of 820 SPID reports had been
produced by the RPMUs, the largest sectors covered being industry (365) and
agriculture (276). The preparation of thesa reports has been the main means
of training for BI and handling bank staff - in project appraisal.
Increasingly, however, these reports have been criticized by both the handling
banks and the staff trained by the RPMUs. The handling banks have not used
the reports as they do not identify particular borrowers, but only point out
sectors/subsectors in which expansion could be viable. The staff criticism is
much the same: the SPID reports were effective in teaching sector survey
techniques, but they did not provide adequate project appraisal training as
they dealt with this topic on a theoretical basis because actual borrowers
were not identified. Under SEDP III, as consolidation of the program and
improvement of portfolio quality become major objectives, the role of the
RPMUs will shift from promoting program expansion through the preparation of
SPID reports to helping the handling banks consolidate and improve their
KIK/KI4KP portfolios. The RPMUs would now become involved in providing
assistance to the handling banks in designing and installing systems for
supervising and monitoring clients, analyzing and recording arrears, and
working with the handling banks in implementing procedural reforms and dealing
with problem accounts. This shift implies a much more project specific role
for the RPMUs and places RPMU training objectives more on portfolio supervi-
sion and rehabilitation. BI has revised the TORs for the RPMUs to reflect
their changing role. These TORs were reviewed and finalized during negotia-
tions and may be found in the project file.
8/   During the period 1977-83, a total of 547 BI and handling bank staff
received one-year training in the RPMUs, 118 of whom were trained in
1983.



-22 -
4.19      The Role and Use of Consultants.  Under SEDP I and II, expatriate
and local consultants were used extensively as advisors to CSCD staff and the
RPMUs. BI, however, experienced difficulty in filling some of the CSCD
advisor positions under SEDP II, so that four out of the required seven
positions were left unoccupied throughout most of 1982 and 1983. The Project
Advisor position, which was to be a senior position designed to support BI's
top management in the development and administration of the KIK/KMKP program,
remained unfilled until recently, as did those of the Development Banking
Advisor, the Industry Advisor and the Agricultural Advisor. BI has recently
filled all but the Industry Advisor positions; BI's management is now
determining whether to hire a full-time Industry Advisor or to hire various
short-term consultants  as necessary, who would have different kinds of
experience and skills.!/
4.20      In addition to the advisors attached to CSCD, the RPMUs also rely
extensively on both expatriate and local consultants. BI recognizes that in
order to strengthen its own capacity for project management, while at the same
time greatly reducing the technical assistance costs of the project, it would
be necessary to gradually phase out the use of consultants. With regard to
the CSCD advisors, BI's strategy is to have BI counterpart staff work closely
with the advisors for the next 2-3 years in order to transfer the necessary
knowledge and skills so that the advisors may be replaced by BI staff (para.
4.17). For the RPHUs, it is not likely that dependence on consultants would
be reduced in the next few years as they are hired for particular experience
and knowledge which BI staff would not normally have. It would also be
difficult to find enough experienced local consultants to replace all of the
expatriate RPMU consultants during the next two to three years.
BRI Upgrading
4.21      In terms of its operations (about 5.7 million loans and 4 million
deposit accounts, 33,000 staff and 3,900 branches and sub-branches), BRI is
the largest and most important financial intermediary catering to the needs of
the SSE and rural sector. As of December 31, 1983, BRI's total assets were
$3.1 billion and loans outstanfiyg $2.3 billion; about 70% of lending is for
government-supported programs,- on which interest rates are fixed and for
which BRI receives low-costl ynds from BI and the Government. The remaining
30% is commercial lending, - at market rates, financed from its own deposit
resources. The average size loan is about $350 with over 80% of loans below
9/   For summary of consultants currently in place, see Annex 1, Table 8.
10/ Seasonal and investment credit for food crops, tree crops, livestock and
fisheries development, cooperative operations, small business purposes.
11/  Working capital and term loans to traders, hotels and restaurants,
industry and construction firms.



- 23 -
$100; similarly, over 952 of deposit accounts are less than $40 each. Between
1978-83, assets increased by about 30X p.a. while staff grew at 4%. Gross and
net income in 1983 amounted to $250 million (11% of loans outstanding) and $24
million (1.0% of loans outstanding), respectively. Administrative expenses
are high because of the large number of small loans and deposits, widespread
network and inefficiencies in the operating systems and procedures. Arrears
are also high, about 20% of loans outstanding, resulting 'rom the high risk
nature of BRI's loans, quantity oriented lending in the past, selection of
borrowers determined by agencies for many government-supported programs, and
weak credit procedures. Under the KIK/KMKP program, which represents about
30% of BRI's portfolio, arrears are around 35%; BRI has recently instituted an
aggressive program to reduce arrears.
4.22      BRI is the major bank for financing government-supported priority
programs to the rural and SSE sectors. Pending a broader review of the finan-
cial sector and state banks, and until totally different mechanisms are insti-
tuted for financing priority programs, the nature of BRI's operations would
continue as at present. A preliminary review of BRI's operations was recently
undertaken to identify institutional changes which would improve efficiency
inder the presently defined mandate of BRI. The following areas require
improvements to complement ongoing efforts: (a) Head Office Organization -
the headquarters organization needs to be rationalized to provide clearer
lines of control and responsibility for marketing of the bank's services and
policy, planning and financial functions; (b) Planning and Budgeting - broad
long-range strategic planning and well-defined annual planning and budgeting,
including budget review process, need to be introduced; (c) Profit Center
Accounting - a simple system needs to be established to broadly assess
profitability of different programs, branches, etc. This is particularly
needed to assess profits and costs of government directed programs; (d) Credit
Procedures - in general, procedures and manuals especially for small loans
need to be simplified and standardized; (e) Branch Operations and Procedures -
work flow, recording and accounting procedures require simplification and
rationalization; (f) Computer Systems - a comprehensive long-range plan for
systems development is needed, taking into account present and future
requirements for MIS, accounting, personnel management, and loan and deposit
account processing and management; (g) Funds Mobilization and Management -
more systematic attention needs to be given to increasing deposits, through
better planning, product development and marketing, and to more efficient
management of funds; (h) Customer Services - a reorientation of the work of
branch staff is warranted to introduce the concept of account management
whereby staff are responsible for providing a full range of bank services to
individual customers; and (i) Personnel Management and Training - improvements
needed in manpower planning, training needs analysis and training materials.
4.23      To further refine and reformulate, as necessary, the above
recommendations and subsequently assist in implementation, BRI would enter
into a technical assistance contract with a large foreign commercial bank,
appropriately suited for the Indonesian environment, which would provide a
suitably staffed banking team and also on-the-job training to BRI staff. An
experienced senior banker would be seconded for about two years to manage this
assistance, including ensuring coordination with ongoing efforts, and to focus
on organizational issues. In addition, experienced staff would be provided



- 24 -
for periods of 6-12 months in the fields of planning and budgeting, profit
center accounting, methods and time study analysis, systems development, funds
management, foreign operations, financial product development and marketing,
manpower planning and training, credit analysis; these staff would work along
with BRI staff from the concerned departments. The detailed terms of
reference were agreed upon at negotiations. The total assistance is estimated
to be about 140 man-months of specialist consultancy services. In addition,
50 man-months of on-the-job training locally and abroad in some of the areas
noted above would be required. The total cost of this technical assistance,
including provision for local travel, resettlement, housing, and about
$250,000 of equipment and materials, would be about $1.75 million. The fol-
lowing were agreed upon at negotiations: (i) BRI would ensure that the team
of consultants be engaged by March 31, 1985; (ii) BRI would, with the help of
these consultants, carry out an evaluation of its organization and operations
and furnish BI and the Bank with the resulting recommendations for institu-
tional and operational changes and an action plan for implementing these
recommendations by December 31, 1985; (iii) BRI would, thereafter, promptly
implement the plan of action, after consultations with the Bank; and (iv) BRI
would complete a review of all external/internal regulations, procedures,
reporting requirements guiding lending programs and make recommendations to
the Government and BI by December 31, 1984 on standardization, in particular
for programs having similar purposes but different procedures.
Lending and Supervision Procedures
4.24      KIK Appraisal Procedures.  Appraisal capabilities of the handling
banks for KIK loans differ substantially from bank to bank and appear to be
very dependent upon both the quality and quantity of staff assigned to
KIK/KMKP lending operations. Recognizing the need to rely on simple appraisal
procedures, given the size and number of the loans involved (a cumulative
average loan size of about $3,800 for XIK loans and $2,900 for KMXP loans),
the limited availability of accurate financial and operational data at the
enterprise level, and very often the limited experience of the loan officer,
most bandling banks have devised their own standardized appraisal formats for
KIK loans. In general, these formats appear adequate, although in some
instances they could be further simplified. However, the loan officers are
not always able to complete the appraisal forms adequately. Very often,
small-scale lending is an entry-level position for a loan officer; his lending
experience is weak, the clients often do not possess the required data them-
selves and given an expansionary environment where performance of the handling
bank and hence, the loan officer, is judged in terms of the volume of lending
achieved, it is easier to approve rather than critically appraise loan
applications. Loan appraisal capabilities are expected to improve under
SEDP III due to: the formal training of loan officers achieved over the last
few years and to be continued under the project (paras. 4.30-4.33); the
counterpart training provided by the RPMUs (para. 4.18); and the fact that the
KIK/KMKP program is currently in a consolidation rather than expansionary
phase (para. 4.09) so that the demand for and pressure to increase lending
should decrease.
4.25      BI, however, must take a more active role in assessing and improving
the appraisal capabilities of the weaker handling banks. The role BI has



- 25 -
played in the past with regard to institutional development and evaluation of
the handling banks has been rather limited, focussing chiefly on whether or
not the handling banks were following BI circulars relating to the KIK/KMKP
program and general banking regulations. Under SEDP III, BI has agreed to
assume a more active role in determining whether the handling banks and their
branches have the capabilities necessary to implement the program, and where
deficiencies are noted, in working with the head offices of the handling banks
to design appropriate remedial measures. This approach of institutional
development/evaluation is consistent with the Government's recent reforms
(para. 2.09) and highlights BI's responsibility for providing overall guidance
and monitoring of the KIK/KMKP program, including the implementation perfor-
mance of the handling banks. The broadening of BI's institutional development
role will require BI to maintain direct relationships with the handling banks
at both the branch level (to identify problems) and the head office level (to
develop solutions to problems identified in the branches). BI recognizes the
need to broaden CSCD's and the RPMU's responsibilities and has incorporated
this function into its Strategy Statement, which was reviewed at negotiations
(para. 4.03). Under the proposed project, BI has further agreed that in the
context of its own institution-building role with the handling banks, BI will
begin to monitor on a small sample and post-approval basis, the appraisal
reports prepared by the handling banks as well as the rediscount applications
submitted for KMKP loans which contain data on the purpose of the loan and a
justification of the loan amount granted. This function was also incorporated
into BI's Strategy Statement as a means of achieving the portfolio improvement
objective set out in its Policy Statement.
4.26      KIK Supervision Procedures.  Project supervision for KIK loans at
nearly all handling bank branches requires strengthening. Given the large
number of outstanding projects, regular periodic supervision of all projects
(i.e., receiving and reviewing quarterly progress reports from borrowers,
undertaking regular project site visits) is neither possible, nor practical.
Supervision staff of the handling banks, therefore, reed to be able to single
out for detailed supervision those projects which are currently experiencing
repayment difficulties or which are operating in sectors/subsectors which are
(or are likely to be) depressed. This selective approach to project super-
vision requires an effective and timely monitoring system to be operating in
the handling banks and their branches. Although some handling banks and their
branches have adequate management information systems (MIS) now, most require
substantial strengthening, particularly at the branch level. BI's RPMUs will
provide assistance to the handling banks in reviewing current MIS
systems/procedures and improving the management of project supervision. BI
also needs to introduce procedures to ensure that the RPMU's regional sub-
sectoral knowledge is more effectively transferred to handling bank branches
to be used in the rehabilitation of essentially viable subprojects. Detailed
project supervision, facilitated by improved information monitoring and
greater coordination between the RPMUs and handling bank branches, together
with increased loan officer training focussing on project supervision and
collection techniques should help the handling banks consolidate their
KIK/KMKP lending and thereby improve loan collections and lower default rates.
4.27      KMKP Appraisal and Supervision Procedures.  Currently, KMKP loans
are extended on a line of credit, rather than project feasibility, basis.



- 26 -
Therefore, no formal project appraisal is made and the handling bank bases its
decision to lend essentially on its knowledge of and past banking experience
with the borrower. These revolving credit lines, moreover, are generally
repaid in one lump sum and then extended once again by the handling bank.
Thus, no predetermined amortization schedule is required. The handling bank,
however, does have the option of either calling the loan or refusing to roll-
over the line of credit if there are repayment problems. The decision by the
handling banks of whether or not to renew KMKP loans also takes into account
the capability of the borrower to meet his working capital needs from normal
commercial channels. Under the proposed SEDP III, the Bank has been requested
by BI to finance KKKP loans as well as KIK loans (para. 5.04). The line of
credit feature of KMKP loans would still be maintained since it offers
creditworthy entrepreneurs ready access to needed working capital financing;
however, in order to enable handling banks to keep track of clients' repayment
performance an amortization schedule with a declining balance feature would be
applied to KMKP loans. In connection with Bank financing of KMKP loans,
moreover, certain procedural modifications in the appraisal and supervision of
these loans would be required in order to ensure that funds are utilized for
productive purposes.
4.28      Under the proposed project, an effort will be made to upgrade the
standards applied by handling banks in making KMKP loans. BI has agreed to
require the handling banks to extend KMKP loans on the basis of a brief but
relevant appraisal of each application. The appraisal would consist of:
(a) basic information on the borrower to establish that he is a bonafide
client and is creditworthy and (b) an estimate of the borrowers working
capital needs broken down by specific items (raw materials, spares, cash
requirements, etc.). The composition of working capital being financed under
the KMKP loan would be explicitly included in the loan agreement between the
handling bank and its client. BI has agreed to incorporate the above appraisal
requirements into a circular which would be issued prior to the effectiveness
of the proposed loan.
4.29      With regard to disbursements made for KMKP loans, it has been agreed
that all disbursements made for individual procurement items above Rp 500,000
would be supported by evidence of payment (i.e., invoices, receipts) to be
kept on file by the handling bank. For amounts disbursed for procurement
items in excess of Rp 1.5 million, payment would be made by the handling bank
directly to the vendor/supplier. When making disbursements, the handling
banks would ensure that items being purchased are the same as specified in
their loan agreement with the borrower. Issuance of a circular which
incorporates these disbursement procedures would be a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed loan. Finally, in order to evaluate the actual usage of
the KMKP loans by the borrowers and to take corrective measures if necessary,
it will be necessary that a post-disbursement review of M4KP loans and loan
procedures be made by BI. This review would be completed by September 30,
1985 and would be based on a survey undertaken by BI of KMKP loans made under
SEDP III. Draft TORs for this survey were discussed during negotiations; the
TORs would be finalized based on further discussion between the Bank and BI
over the next few months. The Bank and BI would use this review to
determine: (a) whether the revised KMKP lending procedures are adequate to
ensure that the loans are being utilized for the purposes intended or whether



- 27 -
any further corrective measures regarding KMKP appraisal or disbursement
procedures would need to be introduced during the course of project
implementation; and (b) whether the amortization procedures for KMKP loans are
working properly.
4.30      Training of Handling Bank Loan Officers.  The lack of trained and
experienced loan officers has been recognized as a major constraint to the
expansion of small credit programs in Indonesia. Therefore, under SEDP II the
main training objective was to prepare loan officers in adequate numbers to
handle term lending operations within the context of the KIK/KMKP program.
Under SEDP I, classroom training was provided entirely by BI's Institute for
the Development of Banking in Indonesia (LPPI), but due to LPPI's capacity
limitations, attempts were made under SEDP II to decentralize training towards
handling banks' own training institutes or in-house facilities and towards the
regional level institutes. To facilitate the decentralization process, train-
ing of trainers, managers' training workshops and regional seminars are being
conducted by LPPI under the project. On-the-job training of loan officers on
project identification and evaluation is also being provided by the RPMUs. To
enable the CPMU to monitor and provide central guidance on training activities
under SEDP II a senior BI official was appointed in 1982 as overall Training
Coordinator.
4.31      Although the LPPI has exercised the main training functions, the
CPMU through the Training Coordinator has been in charge of coordinating all
training activities, setting training objectives, monitoring progress, and
reporting to BI management (via the CPMU Manager) on training matters. This
organizational structure and management set-up has not been effective in
decentralizing training from LPPI towards the handling banks as envisaged
under the project. LPPI is still regarded by the handling banks as the prime
training unit, although it has the resources to provide guidance, teaching
materials, and expertise to handling banks to help the latter develop their
own banker's training programs. LPPI, moreover, has the infrastructure and
professional staff to do these tasks. To speed up the decentralization of
training under SEDP III, it was suggested that LPPI be given a more active
role in the process, particularly in developing course materials for handling
bank trainers, in training trainers, setting annual targets, and evaluating
training results. This step would mean that the CPMU Training Coordinator
would be better placed at the LPPI where maximum contact with handling bank
trainers can be made. The CPMU's training role would then be limited to
monitoring progress under the training component and facilitating any
technical and financial assistance needs related to training.
4.32      In quantitative terms, training programs undertaken during SEDP II
appear to have reached the targets. As shown in Annex 1, Table 7, during
1981-83, 3,945 bank officers (compared with the training target of 5,000 offi-
cers under SEDP II) have undergone training in either LPPI (2,112 trainees) or
the handling banks' own training institutes (1,845 trainees). When figures
relating to RDB staff training and participating private commercial banks,
which handle their own loan officers training courses are included, the
original target of 5,000 trainees is likely to be exceeded. Although these
achievements are impressive in terms of the number of people trained, there is
now a need to evaluate the results of training. The need for such a



- 28 -
performance evaluation has become important, since there are increasing
indications that quality of training may have been sacrificed in favor of
reaching large numbers of trainees. As indicated in para. 3.06, LPPI will
undertake this evaluation and provide a report on its findings to the Bank by
December 31,1984.
4.33      For the three year period 1984-87, BI/LPPI proposes to train about
4,715 bank staff at LPPI and handling bank training institutes, send 18
persons for overseas training on specialized banking topics, and conduct a
number of trainers' training courses and seminars for higher level bank
officials. In terms of the numbers targeted for training, the proposed
training plan appears realistic. BI/LPPI is now in the process of reviewing
its training plan with a view to: (a) shifting the focus of training from
project appraisal to project supervision and follow-up techniques; (b) expand-
ing the role of LPPI in the training decentralization process, given its good
infrastructure, familiarity with handling bank training institutes, and its
training experts; and (c) attempting to link training with career and staff
development. A revised training plan was presented to the Bank for discussion
during negotiations and an understanding was reached on the implementation and
timing of this training plan. Preliminary estimates of training costs show a
need for about $3 million to support the nine consultants to be engaged for
three years (six in LPPI and three in the handling banks' training institutes)
under this component and about $6.5 million for other training costs covering
course fees, cost of transport, board and lodging for local and overseas
training of handling bank loan offices over a three-year (1984-87) period, and
the cost of training equipment. The training costs are to be financed by BI,
the Bank and the handling banks. In the past, the handling banks have been
required to finance 50% of the transportation and lodging costs associated
with the training provided. BI has formulated a new cost-sharing policy with
the handling banks such that 65% of the tuition, transportation and lodging
costs will now be borne by the handling banks. This will both help to reduce
BI's subsidy of training courses and strengthen the mechanism for determining
the courses found useful by the handling banks (i.e., those for which the
handling banks are willing to shoulder a substantial part of the costs).
4.34      Program Monitoring and Guidance.  Improvements in monitoring the
KIK/KMKP program by both BI and the handling banks continues to be a major
concern under SEDP III, since the lack cf timely, relevant and reliable data
has hampered the effective management/administration of the KIK/KMKP program
as a whole. A consultant study undertaken under SEDP I recommended an
improved monitoring and reporting system which provided for compilation of
data on economic, operational and financial aspects of individual subprojects
and the KIK/KMKP program by handling banks, and analysis of the aggregate data
by BI for determining the achievements of the program. Based on the informa-
tion generated by the monitoring system, BI was to formulate guidelines for
improvements in the program. Under SEDP II, BI was to work out the implemen-
tation details and establish the new monitoring system proposed by the consul-
tants. After detailed consultations with handling banks, BI did introduce a
new reporting/monitoring system in April 1983. This system has not yet
produced satisfactory results as it appears to suffer from a number of
weaknesses: (a) the handling banks are reported to be having difficulties in
filling out the new forms; (b) the time lags in compiling and analyzing data



- 29 -
continues to be long; and (c) the scope and format of data analysis seems to
be unsatisfactory for effective program monitoring and evaluation of the
performance of the KIK/KMKP program.
4.35      BI's management recognizes the need for further improvements in its
MIS and has agreed that one of BI's advisors would be assigned to carry out an
MIS review based on the data requirements of BI's management and those of the
Bank as provided in the reporting requirements developed for SEDP III and
given to BI during the post-appraisal mission. Essentially, BI should be
collecting three types of data: (a) information concerning projects financed
(i.e. sector, loan amount, maturity period, purpose, province, etc.);
(b) information concerning the quality of loans made; and (c) the development
impact of projects financed. The first type of information should be avail-
able from the rediscount application forms (KK-1) submitted by the handling
banks to BI. If such data cannot be compiled from the rediscount KK-1 form,
then these forms would need to be modified by the advisor. The second type of
data should be maintained by the handling banks and their branches as arrears
and collection data would change with each transaction on every KIK/KMKP
loan. BI should rely on the handling banks for the provision of "quality of
portfolio" data and should not attempt to recreate its own data base, as this
increases the administrative costs to the handling banks of the KIK/KMKP
program and places a very large data processing cost on BI. The advisor,
therefore, must review data collection, and even account posting procedures,
at the handling banks to ensure that adequate arrears and collection data are
being compiled. If the handling bank is not maintaining appropriate data, the
advisor would recommend appropriate changes in procedures to BI who would then
discuss these proposals with the handling bank head office. Given the
preference to rely on arrears and collection data maintained by the handling
banks, the usefulness and cost of the KK-2 form, by which the handling banks
are required to report every KIK/KMKP account transaction to BI, would also
need to be reviewed. With regard to development impact data, appropriate
sample survey techniques would need to be introduced so that the impact of
KIK/KMKP financing could be analyzed on a continuous and comparative basis.
These development impact studies, however, would be undertaken by consultants
and would not constitute part of the regular MIS. BI has agreed that this MIS
review would be completed and its recommendations submitted to the Bank for
comments by October 31, 1984 so that a satisfactory operating MIS is estab-
lished by March 31, 1985.
4.36      Prior to the liberalization of the financial system on June 1, 1983,
BI controlled credit expansion by setting annual ceilings on bank lending,
including KIK/KMKP lending. However, due to the high priority of the SSE sec-
tor, the KIK/cM.KP program always received from BI the resources it required;
in effect there were no operative ceilings. With almost no constraints,
handling banks did not feel the need to plan their SSE lending programs beyond
a one-year time horizon. As the program expanded, the need for medium-term
planning became more urgent in order to ensure that BI, as well as handling
banks, would be able to meet the financial, and institutional inputs needed to
cope with the actual volume of business. To encourage the handling banks to
introduce a medium-term planning system for their SSE financing program and to
start its own multi-year planning for the KIK/KMKP program, BI agreed under
SEDP II to develop a planning system by December 31, 1982. Accordingly, a



- 30 -
credit planning consultant was engaged by BI.   Although much has been accom-
plished with regard to establishing a credit planning system in the handling
banks and BI (i.e., the handling banks have appointed counterpart staff to
work with the consultant and a great deal of background information necessary
for designing a credit planning system has been collected and analyzed), the
system is not yet operational. Improving the planning capacity of BI as well
as the handling banks with regard to the KIK/KMKP program has become particu-
larly important in the current environment of resource constraints and the
need for consolidation and qualitative improvement in the program rather than
its expansion as in the past. For this reason, work on developing and imple-
menting a planning system will be stressed under SEDP III; the credit planning
exercise is now slated to be completed by mid-1984 and a summary report would
be submitted to the Bank by August 31, 1984.
Studies and Surveys
4.37      A $1.2 million component for studies and surveys was included under
SEDP II with the objective of improving the data base on SSEs and thus improv-
ing both BI program management and the quality of handling banks lending. A
number of studies were started, but only about $0.5 million was spent as
BI/CPMU had limited capacity to undertake and/or supervise the studies pro-
posed. It has also not been possible to evaluate the usefulness of most of
the work undertaken to date. For these reasons, the amount of funding
available for studies under the proposed bank loan is relatively small
($0.26 million) and is restricted to three types of studies:
(a) Baseline surveys, which collect and analyze regional information on
the SSE sector and SSE policies, will continue to be undertaken by
independent consultants for up to six of the more remote, poorly
documented regions of Indonesia;
(b)  The study on the range and effectiveness of government SSE promotion
and technical assistance policies and programs to be administered by
BI and carried out by consultants (para. 1.10) would also be
financed under the project; and
(c) There is a need to establish a system which would routinely allow
for the study of the actual economic impact of the KII/KMKP program
on SSEs in various subsectors. So far, two such studies have been
undertaken separately, under SEDP I and II, primarily to assess the
impact of these projects. However, considering the magnitude and
importance of the KIK/KMKP program, it is desirable that the study
of the actual economic impact be institutionalized in Bl. For this
purpose, BI will need to develop more in-house capability to plan,
administer and supervise economic impact studies done by outside
consultants including universities. The introduction of permanent
counterparts for CSCD's advisors should facilitate the required
transfer of knowledge (para. 4.17). Funding for the study of
economic impact would continue to be provided under SEDP III.



- 31 -
TORs for all of the above studies would need be discussed and cleared with the
Bank prior to their implementation. If consultants are to be hired to help
carry out any of the above studies, the Bank would also need to review their
suitabilitv. Drafts of all studies and surveys will be submitted to the Bank
in English for comment before finalization.
V. THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
Project Cost and Financing
5.01      Total project cost is estimated at $804 million (Rp 804 billion), of
which the foreign exchange cost is $321 million, or 40% of the total; the
foreign exchange cost includes the front-end fee on the Bank loan, which would
be capitalized. Estimated project costs are given in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
Foreign
as % of
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total    total
-  Billion rupiahs --   ---- US$ million
KIK/KMKP subloans /a   466.00  310.00   776.00  466.00  310.00   776.00          40
(current prices)
Technical assistance:   17.04   10.61    27.65   17.04   10.61    27.65          38
CPMU consultants /b    0.89    1.45       2.34    0.89    1.45       2.34     62
RPMU consultants        7.61    5.70    13.31    7.61    5.70    13.31        43
Training
Consultants           1.47    1.57      3.04    1.47    1.57       3.04     52
Other /c              6.27    0.28      6.55    6.27    0.28       6.55      4
Studies/surveys         0.55    0.11      0.66    0.55    0.11       0.66      17
BRI consultants/d       0.25    1.50      1.75    0.25    1.50       1.75     86
Total Project Cost   483.04  320.61   803.65  483.04  320.61   803.65         40
(current prices)
Front-end fee on Bank
loan                   -         0.51     0.51      -      0.51      0.51    100
Total Financing
Required            483.04  321.12   804.16  483.04  321.12   804.16        40
/a Based on BI's projected KIK/KMKP lending for July 1984-June 1986.
/b  Includes cost of short-term consultants.
T7W Includes $500,000 for the cost of teaching materials and equipment required
for LPPI's Distance Learning courses and about $300,000 for the cost of
overseas training for selected BI and handling bank staff.
/d Includes $250,000 to cover the cost of equipment and materials associated
with technical assistance.



- 32 -
5.02      The credit component of Rp 776 billion ($776 million) assumes a very
conservative (13.5% p.a. in nominal terms) growth of the KIK/KMKP program over
the two-year period beginning around mid-1984. The technical assistance com-
ponent of $27.65 million, or 3X of total project costs, covers the cost of
consultants to be engaged, training and about $750,000 of equipment and
materials to be provided under the project to BI and BRI over a three-year
period. This estimate is based on BI's assumptions that: (a) all (seven)
advisory posts in the CPMU would be filled; (b) each of the 13 existing RPMUs
would be assisted by 5 consultants (including 1-2 expatriates); (c) technical
assistance amounting to $1.75 million (including materials and equipment) for
the institutional upgrading of BRI would be included under the project; and
td) a minimum number of economic surveys and studies would be included under
the project. These assumptions have been discussed in detail with BI and
project costs were finalized during negotiations.
5.03      Project costs are expected to be financed as follows:
Table 5.2: ESTIMATED PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total           (X)
Credit (KIK/KMKP)
BI/GOI                           369.00      58.00      427.00           55
IBRD                               -        194.00      194.00           25
Handling banks                    97.00      58.00      155.00           20
Subtotal                    466.00      310.00      776.00         100
Technical Assistance
BI/GOI                             6.40        -          6.40           23
IBRD                              4.88        5.26       10.14           37
Handling banks                     3.26        -          3.26           12
Other aid donors/a                 2.50       5.35        7.85           28
Subtotal                     17.04       10.61       27.65          100
IBRD Front-end Fee                    -         0.51        0.51            -
Total Project Cost
BI/GOI                           375.40      58.00      433.40           54
IBRD                              4.88      199.77      204.65           25
Handling banks                   100.26      58.00      158.26           20
Other aid donors a/                2.50       5.35        7.85            1
Total                       483.04      321.12      804.16          100
a!   Comprising technical assistance grants from the European Economic
Community (EEC) and bilateral aid donors.



- 33 -
5.04      The Bank would finance a much larger portion of the total KIK/KMKP
program under SEDP III than under the previous two loans. This is because
under SEDP I and II, Bank financing was restricted to 20Z of KIK loans only.
Given the importance of working capital finance to the development of the SSE
sector (para. 1.08), particularly while the economy is in the process of
recovery from the recent world-wide recession, the Bank would finance KMKP
loans to the same extent it finances KIK loans (25% of the loan amount granted
by the handling bank).  The proposed Bank financing of KMKP loans would thus
enable the Government/BI to supplement their resources and maintain liquidity
support to SSEs for working capital financing.
5.05      Blending of Funds and Interest Margins.  The proposed blending
formula for KIK and KMKP financing (55:25:20 for BI, the Bank, and the handl-
ing banks, respectively) presented in the foregoing table reflects the intent
of the recent financial sector reforms by placing greater responsibility on
the handling banks for resource mobilization. Under the previous two loans,
the handling banks were not required to contribute any of their own resources
for KIK lending, although they did have to provide 25% of KMKP loans.  For the
1980-83 period, the handling banks have increased their overall contribution
to KIK/KMKP financing from about 15% to 17%; under SEDP III the handling banks
would be required to contribute 20% of the required KIK/KMKP resources. The
blending formula also takes into account the increasing constraints on the
Government's resources available for financing priority programs as well as
the willingness of the Bank to become more involved in the KIK/KMKP program as
a whole. The changes in financing responsibilities are greatest for the
handling banks, however, and it is important that under SEDP III, the handling
banks are provided with a spread which adequately reflects their costs, risks
and responsibilities and which serves as an incentive to participate in the
KIK/KMKP program, which remains a priority program of the Government. During
negotiations, confirmation by the Government of the proposed 55:25:20 blending
formula was received. Given the proposed blending formula and assuming
resource costs of 3% for BI funds, 10.1% for Bank funds and 12% for handling
bank funds, the average cost of KIK/KMKP loanaW, funds amounts to about 6.7%
p.a.; an additional risk premium of 0.8% p.a. -   brings the total cost of
KIK/KMKP resources to about 7.5% p.a. for the handling banks. BI and the
handling banks consider a 6% p.a. spread sufficient to cover the administra-
tive costs of KIK/KMKP lending and to provide an adequate profit margin, given
the degree of risk coverage currently provided by ASKRIND0. Such a spread,
however, cannot be achieved, given the administered lending rate of 12% and
the required lending rate of about 13.5% (7.5% + 6%). As the interest rate on
KIK/KMKP loans is not likely to be increased at this particular time (para.
2.13), the Government agreed to provide an explicit budget subsidy initially
of 1.5% p.a. to the handling banks in order to maintain their participation in
the KIK/KKKP program.  Based on BI's projections of KIK/KMKP lending, this
subsidy would amount to a total of about $11 million for the first two years
of the project. If, however, the cost of KIK/KMKP funds to handling banks
12/ The 1.5% one-time ASKRINDO fee charged to the handling banks discounted
on an annualized basis assuming an average two-year maturity for KMKP
loans and four-year maturity for KIK loans.



- 34 -
changes substantially, the level of subsidy would also need to be adjusted.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to annually review with BI the
appropriateness of KIK/KMKP interest rates (para. 2.13) with a view to
ensuring that the handling banks continue to earn an adequate spread.
5.06      The technical assistance components indicated above are proposed to
be financed by BI (23%), IBRD (37%), other official aid sources (28%) and the
handling banks (12%). Out of the estimated $27.65 million required for tech-
nical assistance over the next three years, BI has already obtained $6.0 mil-
lion from the EEC, West Germany and the Netherlands. This amount represents
22% of total requirements, or about 57% of the foreign component of technical
assistance.
5.07      BI's main consultancy requirements are in the areas of management
advisory services for CSCD, and development banking advisory services for BI's
regional branch offices where RPMUs are established and training. In addi-
tion, BI (CSCD) would employ short-term consultants to conduct surveys and
other special studies. It is envisaged that BRI would also employ long-term
(2-year) consultants to help implement the institutional upgrading included in
the proposed project.
5.08      The management advisory services which will be provided to the CSCD
by seven individual specialists over the next three years (as presently pro-
vided under SEDP II) would require an estimated 252 man-months at a total
estimated cost of about $2.0 million. The total estimated cost also includes
provisons for local travel, resettlemnt, housing and other minor allowances.
5.09      The advisory services on development banking to be provided to RPMUs
in 13 regions will require 720 man-months of expatriate and 1,584 man-months
of local consultancy services. Consultancy services will be organized into
teams of 3-5 experts (including 1-2 expatriates) for each RPMU. Eight con-
sulting firms will supply 13 teams for initial assignments of two years.
Total cost of these advisory services is estimated at $13.3 million.
5.10      Training consultants to be engaged under SEDP III (six in LPPI and
three in handling bank training institutes) will provide 288 man-months of
advisory services at a total cost of $3.04 million. In addition, 15 man-
months of short-term consultancy would be provided f-r special assignments for
the CPMU. Studies and surveys would be assigned to local consultants.
Features of the Proposed Loan
5.11      Relending Arrangements and Terms.  A Bank Aoan of $iO4.65 million
(including the front-end fee of $0.51 million) is proposed for the Government of
Indonesia. The Government would relend the proceeds 'f the Bank loan, includ-
ing the corresponding front-end fee, to the main executing agencies: $194.51
million for the credit component and $8.39 million for a technical assistance
component to BI and $1.75 million for technical assistance to BRI. The
Government would relend the loan proceeds to BI at a fixed interest rate which
would be the same as the Bank rate prevailing at the time of Loan signing, and
would thus bear the risk of any interest rate fluctuation on the Bank loan.
For the $1.75 million to be re-lent to BRI, the Government would charge
interest at a rate of 3% p.a. The front-end fee will be capitalized and



- 35 -
passed on to BI and BRI on a pro-rata basis. BI would relend to the handling
banks $194 million of the loan proceeds at the same fixed interest rate as
noted above, covering no more than 25% of KIK/KMKP subloans made by those
banks. The execution of two separate Subsidiary Loan Agreements, acceptable
to the Bank, is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on the entire loan.
5.12      Amortization Schedule.  The proposed loan would be repaid by the
Government according to a fixed amortization schedule, on standard country
terms, i.e., 20 years maturity including a five-year grace period. Since the
average maturity of KIK and RMKP subloans would be about four years and two
years, respectively, a significant amount of funds would be repaid by the
handling banks before the Bank loan is due to be repaid. Under SEDP II these
second generation funds were allowed to rest with the handling banks; to
ensure that these funds would be used exclusively for further KIK/KMXP
lending, BI would amend one of its circulars to require the handling banks,
effective June 1, 1984 to maintain a separate accounting of the second
generation funds and to use them only for KIK lending. Under SEDP III,
agreement was reached with the Government that these "revolving funds" would
be utilized by BI for further KIK/KXKP lending; a separate accounting of these
funds would also be maintained by BI.
5.13      Procurement.  Procurement under the KIK/KMIP subloans would be made
on the basis of the standard procurement procedures of BI which emphasize pro-
curement at competitive prices. Under an established BI directive for
KIK/KMKP loans, the choice of supplier is determined jointly by the handling
bank and the borrower taking into such factors as cost, quality and service.
Whenever possible, the borrower is requested to submit three price quotations
to help ensure that the goods and services financed through KIK/KMKP loans are
procured at competitive prices. BI monitors banks' procurement practices
periodically to ensure that its regulations are adhered to. Consultant
services financed by the Bank loan proceeds would be provided in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency. TORs and the appointment of all
consultants financed by the Bank under the project would be subject to prior
Bank approval. For all other consultants required for the project, BI will
consult with the Bank to ensure that the consultants hired have suitable
qualifications and experience. Procurement of the training materials and
equipment amounting to about $750,000 under the technical assistance
components of the project for BI and BRI would be based on a list of items
subject to the Bank's prior approval. Normal government procurement
procedures would be applied since items to be procured are many and small in
volume and cannot be grouped in sufficiently large quantities to attract
international bidders.
5.14      Disbursement.  The proposed Bank loan of $204.65 million (including
the front-end fee), represents only 64% of the total foreign exchange costs of
the project of $321.12 million. For the portion of the Bank loan used for
KIK/KMKP financing, disbursements would be made by the Bank covering up to 25%
of either KIK or KMKP subloan amounts, with the balance being financed by BI
(55%) and the handling bank (20%). For the technical assistance portion of
the Bank loan aiministered by BI ($8.39 million) and by BRI ($1.75 million)
disbursements would be made for: (a) 100% of total expenditures for project



- 36 -
consultants; and (b) 100X of foreign expenditures for staff training. For
equipment and materials related to the training and technical assistance to be
provided, disbursements would be against: (a) 100% of the foreign cost of
directly imported items; (b) 95% of the ex-factory cost of locally produced
items; and (c) 65% of other items procured locally. Withdrawal applications
for both the credit and technical assistance components of the project would
be supported by statements of expenditures (SOEs), prepared by BI and BRI,
respectively, and audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. Loan-by-loan documentation for the SOEs would be retained by the
handling banks for review by the Bank during regular supervision. The esti-
mated schedule of disbursements is presented in Annex 2. As the standard
Industrial Development Finance profile is not relevant in the case of an SSE
project, the disbursement estimates are based on experience under the credit
and technical assistance components of the previous SEDP projects. It is
expected that the KIK/KMKP portion of the loan would be committed in two years
and disbursed within three and one-quarter years; the technical assistance
component would be disbursed within three years.
5.15      Accounts and Audits.  BI and the handling banks (except BAPINDO)
have been slow in complying with the audit requirements under SEDP II. This
is due both to delays in preparing financial statements, and in particular, to
delays iu completing the audits by the Agency for Finance and Development
Control (Badan Pengawasan Keuangan dan Pembangunan or BPKP) due to organiza-
tional and staffing weaknesses in BPKP. These problems are being addressed,
inter alia, by the Bank under a separate project (Credit 869-IND), and there
is reason to believe that over time BPKP's performance would improve.
5.16      Keeping in view the experience gained so far, audit requirements
under SEDP III have been revised. First, BI would submit its annual audited
accounts (in English) no later than nine months after the end of the fiscal
year (as before). Second, since there are over 50 handling banks and BI
already has the responsibility of reviewing the audit reports of all financial
institutions, it is proposed that instead of the Bank receiving and reviewing
audit reports on each handling bank, BI would submit to the Bank a statement
on an annual basis, no later than 12 months after the end of the fiscal year,
indicating the handling bank audit reports received, the number that have been
qualified by the auditor, the nature of the qualification and the remedial
action to be taken.  Third, audit reports on handling banks would contain a
special section giving details of the KIK/KMKP lending operations and BI would
submit to the Bank for review no later than 12 months after the end of the
fiscal year this special section of each handling bank's audit report.
Fourth, in line with standard requirements of the Bank, statements of expen-
diture periodically prepared by BI and BRI for reimbursement under the proposed loan
would be subject to an external audit by BPKP, or other auditors acceptable to
the Bank, as an integral part of the regular audit report on BI's annual
accounts. These audit arrangements were confirmed at negotiations.
5.17      Monitoring and Reporting Requirements.  The revised project moni-
toring and reporting requirements for KIK/KMKP are summarized in Attachment 2,
and may be reviewed in the project file. BI and BRI will also submit to the
Bank quarterly and annual progress reports on the technical assistance compo-
nent of the project and would be expected to prepare the required Project
Completion Report.



- 37 -
Project Benefits and Risks
5.18      Benefits.  The proposed SEDP III project will not only provide
direct financial assistance to SSEs but will also address the technical assis-
tance needs of BI and the handling banks with a view toward making them more
effective and efficient in channeling development finance to small enter-
prises.
5.19      The Bank loan would increase the resources available for SSE
lending.  It is expected that the $225.8 million projected for KIK lending
would finance about 33,000 projects over the two-year commitment period, while
the $550.3 million projected for KMKP lending would finance about 140,000
projects; the average loan size of KIK loans would be about $7,000 while that
of KMKP loans would be about $4,000. Since the individual subprojects to be
financed under the loan are not yet identified, an ex-ante quantification of
their economic impact is not possible. However, as discussed in para. 3.05,
the economic impact of subprojects financed under SEDP I and II has been
substantial.
5.20      In addition to providing finance to SSE, the project will play an
important role in improving the capabilities of the financial institutions
participating: BI, the handling banks and particularly BRI. While the Bank
has had a long-standing and satisfactory relationship with BI, certain organi-
zational and procedural changes are being introduced under the project which,
together with additional staff training, would enable BI to assume a more
dynamic institutional evaluation role, thereby helping to upgrade more
effectively the KIK/KMKP operations of the handling banks. The technical
assistance component of the project specifically designed for BRI would allow
BRI to identify its most critical administrative and financial problems so
that appropriate actions to deal with them may be developed. The general
technical assistance (especially training) to be provided to handling banks in
the context of the project is expected to improve their project appraisal and
supervision skills and to increase their awareness of the financial and
nonfinancial problems of SSE borrowers. In accordance with the emphasis on
consolidation and improving the management of the KIK/KMKP program, particular
attention would be given to the problems of portfolio management, project
supervision, and loan collection.
5.21      Risks.  The major risks to the project are that:  (a) BI would not
strengthen its management of the KIK/KMKP program and adopt a more aggressive
role in evaluating and helping to upgrade the capabilities of the handling
banks with regard to appraising and supervising KIK/KRKP loans; (b) increasing
levels of arrears coupled with limited spreads and increased resource contri-
bution requirements may make KIK/KMKP financing unattractive to the handling
banks; (c) disbursements under the project may not take place as rapidly as
expected due to a slower recovery in the economy than currently projected and
to lack of program promotion by the handling banks due to reason (b) above;
and (d) the Bank will be financing XNKP loans for the first time and, although
new XMKP appraisal, disbursement and amortization procedures are being
introduced under the proposed project, there is some risk that KMKP loans
might not be used for the purposes intended.



- 38 -
5.22      With respect to (a) above, BI's senior management is aware that
considerable strengthening of the management of the KIK/KMKP program is
required. Some actions have already been taken (appointment of a new General
Manager and designation of counterparts for BI advisors para. 4.17), and BI
has also taken steps to improve the relationship of the CPMU and KIK/KMXP
divisions. In addition, BI's recent recruitment of experienced advisors to
provide assistance in certain by key area's (overall project management,
development banking and agricultural lending) should substantially improve the
quality of program ranagement (para. 4.20). This aspect of the project,
however, would continue to require close supervision during implementation.
5.23      Regarding (b) above, during negotiations BI arnd the Bank agreed upon
an action program for dealing with the handling banks' arrears problems (para.
4.13). In addition, the MIS systems of BI and the handling banks are to be
upgraded under the project to provide early warning of projects going into
arrears, as it is more effective to rehabilitate projects with new arrears
than longstanding problem projects with entrenched repayment difficulties.
The question of providing the handling banks with spreads adequate to ensure
their active participation in KIK/KMKP lending has been addressed by the
Government's agreement to provide an explicit subsidy to the handling banks
(para. 5.05) and to annually review the appropriateness of the KIK/KMKP
lending rate. With regard to disbursements under the project, BI's demand
projections have been based on very conservative growth assumptions and it is
likely that the investment climate even for SSE borrowers will be more
favorable than projected. Finally, with respect to KMKP financing, BI will
issue a circular (prior to loan effectiveness) establishing new procedures for
appraisal, disbursement and the amortization of KMKP loans. In order to be
certain that these procedures are sufficient to ensure that Bank resources are
used for the purposes intended, a post-disbursement review of I(MKP loans
financed under the project would be made by BI in consultation with the
Bank. This review would be completed by September 30, 1985 and would show
whether the new KKKP lending procedures are adequate to ensure that the loans
are properly utilized or whether further modifications would need to be
introduced during the course of project implementation (para. 4.29).
VI. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
6.01           During negotiations, agreements were reached with:
Mi) the Government on:
(a)  the level of the interest rate subsidy to be provided to
handling banks on KIK/KMKP loans under SEDP III (para. 2.13);
the mechanism by which the subsidy would be delivered to the
handling banks (para. 5.05); and the undertaking of an annual
joint review of the appropriateness of KIK/KMKP lending rates
and the level of subsidy provided to the handling banks
(para. 2.13);
(b) a review of ASKRINDO (para. 4.07); and



- 39 -
(c) the proposed relending arrangements (paras. 5.05-5.11).
(ii) BRI on:
(a)  the TORs and engagement of consultants by March 31, 1985 (para.
4.23);
(b)  the evaluation of BRI's organization and operations and
recommendations by December 31, 1985; implementation of the
recommendations by BRI promptly thereafter; and
(c)  a review of regulations, procedures, etc., by December 31,
1984.
(iii) BI on:
(a)  the TORs and timing of the proposed study (to be over-seen by
an inter-ministerial steering committee) of SSE technical
support services, due by June 30, 1985 (para. 1.10);
(b)  the review and improvement of the KIK/KMKP MIS, including an
arrears collection data system (para. 4.12 and 4.35);
(c)  the details and timing of the implementation of BI's action
program for handling the KIK/KMKP arrears problem (para. 4.13);
Cd)  the completion of a post-disbursement review of KMKP loans by
September 30, 1985 (para. 4.29);
Ce)  the further utilization of "revolving funds" by BI for KIK/KMKP
(para. 5.12); and
Cf)  the audit requirements for SEDP III (para. 5.15-5.16).
6.02           During negotiations, understandings were reached with BI on the
following:
(a)  proposals for strengthening the management of the KXK/KMKP
program (para. 4.17);
(b)  the TORs for the CPMU and RPMUs (paras. 4.16 and 4.18);
(c)  evaluation of training results (para. 3.06);
(d)  details and implementation of the training plan and the
proposed cost sharing arrangements for training expenditures
(para. 4.33);
(e)  the implementation of a medium-term credit plan (para. 4.36);
(f)  the specific financing plan for the technical assistance
component of the proposed project (para. 5.06); and



- 40 -
(g)  the amendment of BI circular (SE 14/1/UPK) to require the
handling banks to maintain a separate accounting of the
"revolving funds" under SEDP II and to use them exclusively for
KIK lending (para. 5.12).
6.03      Conditions of Effectiveness:  (a) The signing of two Subsidiary Loan
Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, between the Government and BI, and the
Government and BRI, would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed pro-
ject (para. 5.11); and (b) BI will have issued a circular on KMKP appraisal,
disbursement and amortization procedures prior to effectiveness of the pro-
posed loan (paras. 4.28 and 4.29).
6.04      Recommendation.  Subject to the above agreements, understandings and
conditions, a Bank loan of $204.65 million (inclusive of a front-end fee of
$510,000) for a term of 20 years, including a 5-year grace period, is
recommended to be made to the Government of Indonesia.



-41-                                                 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NNEX I
Table I
INDONWIA
THIRD SLaLL ENTERPIaSE DEVELOPMENT PROJEC
Annuml mIX Loan Approvals by Province snd Sector
(RP million)
1974-78           1979               1980              1981              1982              1983         Cumulative
Amount     2      Amount    2     Amount      2      Amount     2      Amount     2      Amount    2      Amount     2
By Province
Central Java               12,260   11.5    7.379   11.7    14,299    9.7    16.911    9.8    12,194    8.4    9,297   10.8    72.340   10.0
East Java                  19,164   18.0   10.832   17.2    25.640   17.4    21.544   12.5    16,433   11.4    7,713    9.0   101,326   14.1
West Sumtra                 2,807    2.6    1,614    2.6       3,648    2.3      3,931    2.3      4.835    3.4    3,163    3.7    19,798    2.7
Subtotal            34,231   32.1   19J825   31.5    43,387   29.4    62,386   24.6    33.46.2                20.173   23.5   193.464   26.8
South Xalimantan            2.887    2.7       9L3    1.4      1,479    1.0      1,792    1.0      1.217    0.8    L,051    1.2       9.339    1.3
CeAtral Ealimntan             755    0.7       367    0.6        679    0.5      1.060    0.7        795    0.6       271    0.3      3,927    0.5
South Sulawesi              7,468    7.0    4,867    7.7       8,516    5.8      9,917    5.8      7,790    5.4    2,938    3.4    41.496    5.8
Ball                        4,271    4.0    1,630    2.6       4,933    3.3      6,255    3.6      3,676    2.6    2,381    2.8    23,146    3.2
North Sumatra               8.130    7.6    2,827    4.5       7,271    4.9      8.175    4.7    10,450    7.2    5,436    6.4   462289    5.9
Vent Javs                  14,869   14.0   10,691   17.0    28,160   19.1    31,593   18.3    22,854   15.8   15,279   17.8   123,466   17.2
Vest Hues Tenggara          1,889    1.8    1,505    2.4       4,346    2.9      5.513    3.2      2,924    2.0    2,709    3.2    18,886    2.6
Toya ksrts                  2,808    2.7    1,674    2.6       2,990    2.0      5,207    3.0      4,735    3.3    2,512    2.9    19,926    2.8
Jakarta                     7,654    7.2    7,504   11.9    13,539    9.2    16,411    9.5    20,375   14.1   12,762   14.9    78,245   10.9
Other                      21,554   20.2   11,196   17.8    32,398   21.9    43,974   25.6    35.983   25.0   20,190   23.6   165,295   23.0
Subtotal                721285   67.9   43.174   68.5   104.331   70.6   129,897   75.4   110.7"    76.8   65.529   76.5   526.015   73.2
Total /a               106,516  100.0   62.999  100.0   147,718  100.0   172.283  100.0   144.262  100.0   85.702  100.0   719.479  100.0
Bv Sector
Agriculture                19,795   18.6   10,185   16.2    22,235   15.0    23,921   13.9    17,064   11.8    8,283    9.7   101,463   14.1
Indutry                    17,641   16.6    7,732   12.3    15,809   10.7    20,809   12.1    11,612   12.2   11,215   13.1    90,818   12.6
Trade                      26,890   25.2   Z0,805   33.0    42,280   28.7    53,861   31.2    53,905   37.4   34,654   40.4   232,395   32.3
Transportation             33,660   31.6   16,552   26.3    47,732   32.3    48,244   28.0    30.556   21.2   16.309   19.0   193.053   26.8
Other                       8,530    8.0    7,723   12.3    19,663   13.3    25,448   14.8    25,145   17.4   15,241   17.8   101.750   14.2
Total                  106.516  100.0   62.999  100.0   147j 718  100.0   172,283  100.0   144.262  100.0   85.702  100.0   719.479  100.0
ArP Projects Department
April 13, 1984



-42 -                                                            ANU  I
Ta bl 2
THIRD SHALL ENTERPRISE DZVCLOPHNCT PROECT
Characturiutica of XIX Ln Approvals
(Up militon
1974-78         1979          1980            1981           1982            1983       Cumulativa
Amount    X   Amount         Amount    2   Amount           Amount          Amut    S   Anount    z
Diutrtbution by Amount
Lse. than ftp 1 million        8,551   8.0  1,624   2.6   5,124    3.5   4,876   2.8   2,176    1.5  1,257    1.5  23,608    3.3
Rp 1-2 million                18,748  17.5  5,518   8.8   9.232   6.2   8,876   5.2   5,776   4.0  3,370   3.9  51,520    7.2
Rp 2-3 mllion                 21,379  20.0  6,553  10.5  14,557   9.9  15,662   9.1  10,755   7.5  5,635   6.6  74,541  10.4
Rp 3-4 million                15,589  14.5  8,373  13.4  17,329   11.7  19,268  11.2  12,078    8.4  6,885   8.0  79,522  11.0
Rp 4-5 million                33,410   31.2  15,494  24.8  28,988   19.6  32,692   19.0  21,021   14.6  14,160  16.5  145,765  20.2
Rfp 10-15 milion               9,421   8.8  24,870  39.B  72,499   49.1  90,917   52.7  92,421   64.0  54,393  63.5  344,523  47.9
Total /a                  107,098  100.0 62.432  100.0  147.729  100.0  172.292  100.0  144.226  100.0 85.700  100.0  719.479  100.0
Distribution by Maturity
Lusa than 1 ymar                 929   0.9    16    0.3        398   0.3      727   0.4       450   0.3    497   0.6   3,163    0.4
1-2 years                      4,966   4.6  1.894   3.0   4,725    3.2   6,121   3.6   4,200   2.9  2,527   2.9  24,433    3.4
2-3 year.                     36,900  34.5  15,608  25.0  45,301  30.7  56,514  32.8  37,358  25.9  19,590  22.9  211,271  29.4
3-4 year.                     22,924  21.4  12,060  19.3  28,745   19.4  34,514  20.2  33,622  23.3  20,471  23.9  152,636  21.2
4-5 year.                     35,824  33.4  23,703  38.0  54,267  36.7  59,399  34.5  45,484  31.6  26,978  31.5  245,657  34.1
5-10 year.                     5,555   5.2  9,003  14.4  14.293   9.7  14,717   8.5  23,112  16.0  15,637  18.2  82,319  11.5
Total /a                   107.098  100.0  62.432  100.0  147.729  100.0  172.292 100.0  1".226  100.0 85.700  100.0  719.479  100.0
Purpome of Pinancing
Building                      20.831  19.4  11,429  18.3  16,283   11.C  20,993  12.2  28,007   19.4  24,913  29.1  122,456  17.0
Equipment                     71,383  66.7  42,338  67.8  109,019   73.8  125,087  72.6  B5,646   61.5  43,525  50.8  479,998  66.7
Other                         14,B84  13.9  8,665  13.9  22,427  15.2  26,212  15.2  27,573   19.1  17,262  20.1  117,025  16.3
Total                      107.098  100.0 62.432  100.0  147.729  100.0  172.292  100.0  144.226  100.0 85.700 *100.0 719.479  100.0
Tye of Prolect
Eapwanion,                    84,903  79.3  54,240  86.9  128,198   86.8  145,235  84.3  118,767   82.4  65,875  76.9  597,227   83.0
NadraLzation                  10,809   10.1  3,350   5.4  10,023    6.8  15,670   9.1  15,442   10.7  12,055   14.0  67,349   9.4
Haw developmnt                11.386  10.6  4,842   7.7   9,508    6.4  11,387   6.6  10,017   6.9  7,770   9.1  54,903   7.6
Total /a                   107.098  100.0 62.432  100.0  147.729  100.0  1723292 100.0  144.226  100.0 85.700  100.0  719.479  100.0
/a Totals differ from Table I due to rounding.
AZP Project. Dpartmnt
April 13, 1984



ANNU I
-43-                                                           Table 3
r
IXUOWESIA
THItD SMALL UTZRPRISE DELORPENT PROJECT
Qiaracteriuticu of Annual XIMP Anprovalm
1974-78          1979            1980           1961            1962            1983         C undative
Amunt    2   Amount    S   Amount    Z   Aummt    S   Amount    1   Amount    2    Amount                 2
Distribution by Amount
Less than Rp I million     19,070  14.1   8.069   7.2  16.3B7    7..  19,895    5.4  18,222    5.0   9,712   4.2    91.355    6.3
Rp 1-2 million             36,214  26.b  21,321  18.9  40,639   17.4  55,845   15.1  49,871   13.7  27.592   11.9   231.482   16.0
Rp 2-3 million             23,009   17.0  13,566   12.0  35,042   15.0  73,642   19.8  60.001   16.4  32,202   13.9   237,462   16.4
Rp 3-4  iLLion            15,758   11.6  10,815    9.6  26,524   11.4  58.720  15.8  45,722   12.5  27,303   11.8   184,842   12.7
Rp 4-5 million             25.525   18.8  16,290  14.4  33,740   14.4  59.531   16.0  51,416  14.1  32,517   14.1   219,019   15.1
lRp 5-10 wLIlla )
Rp 10-15 million )         15,808   11.7  42,743   37.9  81,164   34.8  103,407   27.9  139.7"   38.3  102,016   44.1   484,939   33.5
Total                  135.384  100.0  112.804  100.0  233.496  100.0  371.039  100.0  365,031  10.0  231,342  100.0  1.449.097  100.0
Distribution by Maturity
Less than 1 year            5,347    3.9   2.197    1.9   8,551    3.7  42,337   11.4  60,568   16.6  32,725   14.1   151,725   10.5
1-2 years                  26.471   19.6  11.493   10.2  28,900   12.4  39,961   10.8  35,822   9.8  16,272   7.0   158.919   11.0
2-3 years                 103.567   76.5  99,114   87.9  196,045   83.9  288.741   77.8  268.641  73.6  182.345  78.9  1.138,453  78.5
3-4 years                       0    0         0    0          0    0         0    0          0    0          0    0           0    0
Total /a               135,385  100.0  112.S04  100.0  233.496  100.0  371.039  100.0 365.031  100.0 231.342  100.0  1.449.097  100.0
Diatribution by Province
Central Javs               22,903   17.0  19,787   17.4  43,515   18.6  62,446   16.8  52,932  i4.5  43,555   18.8   245,138   16.9
-ast Java                  29.540  22.0  23,472   20.6  34,985   15.0  58,290   15.7  66.948  18.3  35,327   15.3   248,562   17.2
Wete Sumtra                 3,637    2.7   2.670   2.4   5,8Z1    2.5   5,380    1.5   7,989    2.2   7,728   3.3    33.225    2.3
Subtotal                56,080  41.7  45.929   40.4  84.321   36.1  126.116   34.0  127,869   35.0  86,610  37.4   526.925   36.4
South Kalimantan            2.529    1.9   1,811    1.6   2,787    1.2   4,868    1.3   5.435    1.5   4,442    1.9    21,872    1.5
Central KaIimautan            957   0.7      702   0.6      880   0.4   2,516   0.7   2,694    0.7   1,708   0.7           9,457    0.7
South Sulawesi              6,158   4.5   6.439    5.7  11,184    4.8  17,069   4.6  18,339    5.0   7,753    3.4    66,942    4.6
Bali                        5,893   4.4   3,182    2.8  10,499   4.5  11.347    3.1   7,146    2.0   5.022    2.2    43,089    3.0
Worth Smatra                9,527   7.0   7.852    6.9  15.436   6.6  26,814   7.2  24,190   6.6  14,078    6.1    97,897    6.7
Went Java                  14.807   11.0  14,191   12.5  38,179  16.4  80,300   21.6  71,292  19.5  42,876   18.5   261,645   18.1
West Muss TeggiLra          1,823    1.3   1,680    1.5   3.994    1.7   7,597   2.1   8,089   2.2   5,906    2.6    29,089   2.0
ogyakarta                   5,035    3.7   2.519   2.2   4,482    1.9   7,534   2.0   8,677    2.4   5.809   2.5    34,056    2.3
Jakarta                     5,736   4.2   4,834    4.2  11,212    4.8  14,935   4.0  17.855   4.9  12,783   5.5    67,355    4.6
Other                      26,840  19.8  24,611   21.6  50,535  21.6  71.938   19.4  73,497   20.2  44,355   19.2   290,770   20.1
Subtotal                79,305   58.3  67821  59.6  149.128  63.9  244,918  66.0 237.214  65.0  144,732   62.6   9222172   63.6
Total Is               135.385  100.0  113.750  100.0  233.449  100.0  371.034  10.0  365.083  100.0  231342  100.0  1,449,097  100.0
Distribution by Sector
Agriculture                12,045   9.0   8,090   7.1  12,968    5.6  16,583    4.5  25,082   6.9  13,790   6.0    88,558    6.1
Industry                   30,153  22.4  15,492   13.6  27,356   11.7  36.042    9.7  32,440   8.9  22045   9.5   163,528   11.3
Trade                      81.154  60.4  79,279   69.7  169,792  72.7  265,208   71.5  240,529  65.9  157,788  66.2   993,750  68.6
Transportstion              2,353    1.7   1,091    1.0   1,873   0.8   2,436   0.6   2.145   0.5   1,313    0.6    11,211    0.8
Other                       8,734    6.5   9,798    8.6  21,460   9.2  50.765   13.7  64,887   17.8  36,407   15.7   192,051   13.2
Total /a               134.439  100.0  113,750  100.0 233.449  100.0 371    100.0  365,083  100.0  231.342  100.0  1.449.097  100.0
/a Totals do not calws match for each category due to rounding.
ASP Projects Department
April 13, 1984



_ 44 -
INDONESIA
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPI-mi
KIK/KMKP Lending Outstanding by E
(Rp million)
1978                          1979                              1980
KIK           KMKP             KIK            KNKP              KIK              KQKP             -
Amount    Z    Amount    Z    Amount    Z    Amount        Z    Amount      Z    Amount      2    Amount
BRI            33,745   52.1  50,591   60.4  48,188   48.5   94,330   61.1   99,700   47.5  194,378   60.6  162,
BED             9,007   13.9   7,371    8.8  15,430   15.5   13,991    9.1   33,367   15.9   28,988    9.0   50 _
BDN             4,098    6.3   4,231    5.0   8,761    8.8   11,187    7.3   22,344   10.7   25,181    7.9   30,
BEIT            2,640    4.1   4,829    5.8   3,762    3.8    6,615    4.3    7,533    3.6   11,237    3.5   11.
BNI '46         9,107   14.1  12,246   14.6  15,488   15.6   21,009   13.6   27,985   13.3   43,143   13.5   52, 
BAPINDO         5,456    8.5   3,165    3.8   4,599    4.6    2,910    1.9    4,528    2.2    3,250    1.0    6
RDBe              659    1.0   1,315    1.6   2,996    3.0    3,149    2.0    9,762    4.6   10,126    3.2   201X
Private banks       -      -        -      -      155    0.2    1,125    0.7    4,528    2.2    4,200    1.3   17
Total     64,712  100.0  83,748  100.0  99,379  100.0  154,316  100.0  209,747  100.0  320,503  100.0  352-
AEP Projects Department
April 13, 1984



ANNEX 1
Table 4
.IA
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
- -ng by Handling Banks
. .on)
1981                        1982                        1983
KTK           RMKP          KIK           KNKP           KIK           KKNP
Z   Amount    Z   mouut    Z   Amount %        Amount    z   Amount Z      Amount    Z
60.6 162,168  45.9 402,385  63.3 171,170  42.3 463,051  58.6 168,263  42.8 478,257  55.8
9.0  50,930  14.4  49,302   7.8  55,938  13.8  61,941   7.8  52,003  13.2  67,679   7.9
7.9  30,427   8.6  40,274   6.3  36,517   9.0  57,164   7.2  32,563   8.3  62,523   7.3
3.5  11,872   3.4  19,367   3.1  13,308   3.8  29,646   3.7  11,017   2.8  32,507   3.8
13.5  52,160  14.8  84,603  13.3  55,695  13.8 109,058  13.8  40,978  10.4 120,619  14.1
1.0   6,867   1.9   4,599   0.7   7,718   1.9   6,309   0.8   7,121   1.8   7,304   0.8
3.2  20,742   5.9  22,689   3.6  34,229   8.5  39,180   5.0  39,430  10.0  5X,226   6.1
1.3  17,824   5.1  12,195   1.9  30,415   7.4  24,749   3.1  41,886  10.7  36,-81'  4.2
.0 352,998 100.0 635,414 100.0 404,990 100.0 791,098 100.0 393,261 100.0 857,598 100.0



ANNME 1
- 45 -                Table 5
INDONESIA
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Percentage of KIK/KMKP Loans in Handling Bank"s Portfolio
(as of December 31, 1982)
Total                                       KIK          KNKP        KIK/KNKP
portfolio     KIK loans    IMRP loans    portfolio    portfolio    portfolio
outstanding   outstanding   outstanding    as of Z         as of Z       as Z of
- -----  (Rp million) ---------         total         total         total
BRI                2,055,625.8      171,172.2      463,051.6        8.3          22.5          30.8
BBD                1,962,521.0       55,938.4       61,941.0        2.9           3.2           6.1
BDN                1,964,618.0       36,516.7       57,164.1        1.9           2.9           4.8
BEIT                 772,468.8       13,308.6       29,645.6        1.7           3.8           5.5
BNI '46            1,497,237.8       55,694.8      109,058.4        3.7           7.3          11.0
Bapindo              686,529.9        7,718.4        6,308.7        1.1           0.9           2.0
RDBEs                357,184.8       34,229.3       39,180.5        9.6          11.0          20.6
Private banks      1,193,229.6       30,414.0       24,748.2        2.5           2.1           4.6
Total      10,489.415.7      404,992.4      791.098.1         3.9          7.5          11.4
AEP Projects Department
March 6, 1984



- 46 -                          ANNEX 1
_ 46 -                 ~~~~Table76
INDONESIA
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ProJected KIKIKMKP Approvals, 1984-87
(Rp billion)
KIK                  KMKP                 Total
1984
January-March                  25.0                  59.1                  84.1
April-June                     25.1                  59.4                  84.5
July-September                 25.7                  61.3                  87.0
October-December               26.4                  63.2                  89.6
Subtotal                 102.2                 243.0                 345.2
1985
January-March                  27.1                  65.2                  92.3
April-June                     27.7                  67.3                  95.0
July-September                 28.5                  69.4                  97.9
October-December               29.2                  71.7                 100.9
Subtotal                 112.5                 273.6                 386.1
1986
January-March                  30.1                  74.6                 104.7
April-June                     31.1                  77.6                 108.7
July-September                 32.1                  80.7                 112.8
October-December               33.2                  84.0                 117.2
Subtotal                 126.5                 316.9                 443.4
1987
January-March                  34.5                  88.1                 122.6
April-June                     35.8                  92.5                 128.3
July-September                 37.2                  97.0                 134.2
October-December               38.7                 101.8                 140.5
Subtotal                 146.2                 379.4                 525.6
Total                    487.4               1,212.9               1,700.3
AEP Projects Department
March 6, 1984



Annex 1
Table 7
- 47 -
INDONESIA
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOMENT PROJECT
Training Achievements (1981-83) Against Target of 5,000
(No. of Graduates)
LPPI
Trainer workshop /a                                85
RPIlU workshop /a                                  62
Branch managers'- seminar /a                     707
Management workshop                                60
Overseas training                                  21
Loan officers course                              136
Counterpart course                                696
Instructional communication
technology course /b                           122
RDB middle management course                      162
RDB Directors seminar                              61
Subtotal                  2,112
Handling Banks
'CIK/KMKP loan officers course                  1,127
KIK/KJKP workshop                                 350
Credit trainers course                             40
Development banking course                         93
Credit supervision course                          65
Small credit course                               170
Subtotal                  1,845
TOTAL                 3,945
/a        Jointly conducted by LPPI & CPMU.
/b        Further developed trainers training.
AEP Projects Department
April 10, 1984



Table 8
_ 48 _
INDONESIA
THIRD SKALL ENTERPRISE DEVELONENT PROJECT
Conaultants'Positions as of January 31. 1984
Consultant
firm/                         Current contract      Source              Number on board
indivldual      Position      Begins      Ends        of funds            Foreign   Local
CPMU                                                                                                    4       2
Mr. E. Nelson          Harvard         Econ. Advisor   6/1/82      6/30/84    BI/IBRD                1
Mr. H Wignjowmoto      Individual      Planning Adv. 6/22/81       6/21/84    BI/IBRD                        I
Mr. L. Taudevin        W.D. Scott      Staff Dev.    7/18/83       6/22/85    Austr. Bilateral       1
Advisor                               Fund
Mr. U. Parhusip        Bogar Inst.    Agric.         10110/83      9/10/86    EEC Grant                      1
of Agric.       Advisor
Mr. C. Iathiesen       Carl Bro.       Proj. Adv.    11/21/83    11/20/86    EEC Grant               1
Mr. G.X. Dyer          Individual      Dev. Banking   12/8/83      12/7/86    EEC Grant              1
Advisor
(Vacancy)              Individual      Ind. Adv.            -           -    -                       -       -
iEPPI                                                                                                   4       2
Mr. G. Rloffer         anZ             Materials       2/5/83      1/31/85    W. German              I
Developer                             Bilateral Grant
Mr. Marsaid            Individual      Trainer         1/2/82      1/31/85    BI/IBRD                        1
Mr. D. Thalib          Individual      Trainer        7/30/82      6/30/84    BI/IBRD                        I
Mr. J. Lamont          W.D. Scott      Trainer        2/01/83      1/31/85    Australian             I
Bilateral Fund
Mr. G. Winston         W.D. Scott      Staff Dev.    4/26/82       4/25/85      U   - e  "           I
Mr. R. Kinder          W.D. Scott      Material Dev.   1/3/63       2/1/86      "      "  "          I
RPHU (Locations)                                                                                       21      43
German Technical
Cooperation (GTZ)   Firm             All /a          6/11/81    5/31/85    W. German
(North Sumatra)                                                          Bilateral Grant         2       4
(West Sumatra)                                                                                   1       4
Netherlands Econ.
Inst. (Jakarta)      Firm            All             5/1/81     4/30/85    Netherlands Bil. G.    2        3
Univ. of Padjajaran    Firm            All             4/1/80      3/31/84    BI/IBRD                1       4
(West Java)
W.D. Scott             Firm            All             7/1/81      6/30/84    Australian
(Central Java)                                                              Bilateral Fund         2       3
(Yogyakarta)                                                                                       1       2
SGV-Utouo              Firm            All             1/7/80       1/6/85    BI/IBRD
(East Java)                                                                                        1       4
Frida Conaultancy Ltd. Firm            All           10/10/79      9/30/86    EEC Grant
(Bali)                                                                                             2       3
(Nenado)                                                                                           2       3
CarlBro.Intl. Ltd.    Firm             All           10125/79      9/30/86    EEC Grant
(South Sulavesi)                                                                                   2       3
(Central Kalimantan)                                                                               2       3
(Palembang)                                                                                        2       3
IDA - Ireland          Firm            All            11/1/83    10/31/86E   EEC Grant
(Mataram)                                                                                          1       4
/a   Each RPHU consultant team consists usually of a development banker (the designated team leader), a small
business specialist or financial analyst, an agriculture specialist, an industrial specialist and a marketing
specialist; each team has 1 to 2 expatriate consultants.
Source: Bank Indonesia.
AEP Projects Department
March 6, 1984



ANNEX 2
- 49 -
INDONESIA
TF:RD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELIOMENT PROJECT
Project Disbursements of the World Bank Loan for SEDP III, 1984-87
($ million)
Technical       Technical
assistance      assistance
KIK/KMKP    through BI        for BRI         Total
FY85
Jul-Sep 1984                   -            -               -
Oct-Dec 1984                  7.70         0.60             -              8.30
Jan-Mar 1985                  7.55         0.60            0.10            8.25
Apr-Jun 1985                  7.66         0.70            0.10            8.46
Subtotal                22.91         1.90           0.20           25.01
FY86
Jul-Sep 1985                 20.30         0.70            0.20           21.20
Oct-Dec 1985                 20.30         0.70            0.20           21.20
Jan-Mar 1986                 20.40         0.70            0.20           21.30
Apr-Jun 1986                 20.60         0.80            0.20           21.60
Subtotal                81.60         2.90           0.80           85.30
FY87
Jul-Sep 1986                 16.80         0.90            0.20           17.90
Oct-Dec 1986                 16.80         0.90            0.20           17.90
Jan-Mar 1987                 16.70         0.90            0.20           17.80
Apr-Jun 1987                 16.80         0.89            0.15           17.84
Subtotal                67.10         3.59           0.75           71.44
FY88
Jul-Sep 1987                 11.40          -               -             11.40
Oct-Dec 1987                 11.50                                        11.50
Subtotal                22.90         -               -             22.90
Total                  194.51         8.39            1.75         204.65
AEP Projects Department
March 6, 1984



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bl. Agreed Terms of Reference for:
(a) Study of technical assistance to SSE
(b) KMKP post-disbursement review
(c) CPMU and RPHUs
(d) BRI consultants
B2. Development Impact Study for SEDP II
B3. Training Plan and Targets for 1984-87
B4. Cost Estimates for Technical Assistance
B5. Miscellaneous KIK/KMKP Operational Data
B6. BI's Proposed Action Program for Arrears Improvement
C.   Selected Working Papers, Tables, Drawings, Maps Prepared by Bank Staff
Cl. Reporting Requirements (Table Formats) under SEDP III
AEP Projects Department
March 6, 1984



- 51 -                          ANNME 4
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA
THIRD SHALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Indonesia
Policy and Strategy Statement for the Development /a
of the KIK/KMKP Program
1.       The small investment credit (KIK) and permanent working capital
credit (KIKP) programs have been expanding rapidly in the last several years
and have now reached a signi'icant number of SSEs. This rapid expansion has
created some pressures on Bank Indonesia (BI) and handling bank (HB) staff
capacity to administer the program, a fact that may adversely affect its
future growth. As the program appears to have reached a sizeable number of
SSEs, there is a need now to consolidate lending operations. This consolida-
tion would enable BI and handling banks to review operational procedures and
performance and allow them sufficient opportunity to focus on staff develop-
ment and intensify staff training in project lending to ensure a sound port-
folio quality. In light of these developments, the SEDP III Policy Statement
for the program adopted April 21, 1981 has been modified as set out below.
2.       The main objectives and policies of the KIK/KMKP Program are deter-
mined by the Government and BI. Primary emphasis in lending operations will
be placed on improving the quality of the KIK/1KHP loan portfolio through
overall consolidation, improved lending procedures, monitoring and follow-up
of subborrowers and continued identification of viable projects. Efforts to
improve the institutional capacity of the handling banks, particularly with
regard to supervising borrowers and to rehabilitating projects with long-run
viability, would continue. Both volume and quality of subprojects financed
under the program will be monitored and evaluated, and any actions or policy
modifications which would be necessary may be decided upon from time to
time. For that purpose, advice will be sought from all organizations in the
public and private sectors involved in assisting or promoting the growth of
SSEs.
A. Basic Policies and Objectives
Policy Objectives
3.       The main objective of the Program is to promote the development of
small-scale enterprises (SSE) in virtually all economic sectors. Specifi-
cally, the lending program is aimed at the creation and sustenance of employ-
ment, geographic dispersion of productive investment, development of entre-
preneurial opportunities and technical skills, provision of markets for local
/a   This statement would become effective with the effectiveness of
SEDP III.



- 52 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
SSE products and raw materials. To achieve this objective, it is recognized
that a comprehensive development strategy, involving both financial and non-
financial assistance agencies, would need to be developed in the long run. BI
is the main source of financial assistance to SSEs. BI makes its resources
available through a rediscount operation to qualified state, regional and
private commercial banks; these banks are collectively known as the handling
banks (HB) for the KIKIKMKP program. BI maintains a direct relationship with
the HBs and the HBs maintain a direct relationship with their KIK and KMKP
borrowers. To the extent that BI would need to contact KIK/KMKP borrowers,
this would be achieved through and with the active assistance of the HB. KIK
and KMKP loans are available both for individual borrowers and for group
projects ('tmassal" loans). BI complements its financial assistance with
technical assistance that is primarily aimed at improving the capacity of the
HBs to undertake and gradually finance an increasing share of SSE
lending. BI will continue to encourage the HBs to explore practical and
effective ways to extend sound small credits, improve lending and supervision
procedures in the HBs, and facilitate nonfinancial assistance to SSE clients.
Lending Criteria and Procedures
4.       KIK/KMKP procedures are adjusted from time to time in response to
changing circumstances. Project viability, rather than availability of
collateral, continues to be stressed in loan approvals by HBs. BI will
continue to verify that HB staff comply with accepted development banking
techniques in loan administration, and whenever necessary and feasible, will
assist the HBs in helping their clients gain access to nonfinancial assistance
from public and private sources.
Terms and Conditions of Lending
S.       BI and the HBs share the financing obligation for KIK/KMKP loans.  BI
will provide 80% of the funds required (financed partly from borrowings and
partly from its own resources) and the handling banks the remaining 20%. This
proportionate sharing of the financing of KIK/XMKP loans will be reviewed from
time to time and may be modified. It is BI's policy, however, that the HBs
would continue to participate in the financing of the program to a reasonable
extent. The lending rate on KIK/KMKP loans is 12% p.a. The maximum maturity
period for KIK loans is 10 years (including up to four years grace period),
and 5 years for KMKP loans (including up to 1 year grace period). Maximum
approva'l ceilings under each loan category will be maintained at Rp 15
million.  KIK/KMKP borrowers repay their loans according to a fixed amortization
schedule, to allow HBs to monitor clients' repayment performance. However, KMKP
loans will be extended in the form of a current account. Additional credit
lines above the initial approvals can be added under each program provided it
is established that there is sufficient economic, financial and technical
justification acceptable to the HB concerned. All applications for additional
tranches will be evaluated separately and fully.
6.       Credit Insurance Scheme.  BI finances the bulk of KIK/KMKP loans, but
the entire repayment risk is borne by the HBs. In order to reduce the burden
of this risk to the HBs, a credit insurance scheme is operated by P.T.
Asuransi Kredit Indonesia (P.T. ASKRINDO) in collaboration with BI and the



ANNEX 4
53                            Page 3 of 5
Government. Under this scheme, P.T. ASKRINDO covers 75% of credit risk on all
loans made under the Program. The premium charged by P.T. ASKRINDO is 3% for
loans up to 5 (five) years maturity and 5% for loans over 5 (five) years
maturity. The premium charged by P.T. ASKRINDO is a one time payment and is
shared equally between BI and the respective HB for the 3% premium and for the
amount in access of 3% is shared two third by BI and one third by the
respective HB. While ASKRINDO coverage on individual loans is automatic, for
group loans, ASKRINDO evaluates each project before agreeing to provide its
guarantee coverage.
7.       Technical Assistance.  Terms and conditions of KIK'/MKP loans are set
so as to provide adequate incentives to the HBs to have an effective and
development-oriented SSE lending program. These incentives are provided by BI
in the form of refinancing, appropriate spreads and technical assistance
provide? to HB staff at minimal cost through training, staff development and
statistical information. Moreover, HBs are given financial assistance to
enable them to assist their SSE clients in addressing their management,
marketing and other nonfinancial problems.
Program Monitoring
8.       BI systematically monitors the progress and the impact of the program
both on HBs and the SSE sectors. For this purpose, BI has set up a Management
Information System (MIS) in close cooperation with HBs, which is supplemented
from time to time by specific studies and surveys. BI also requires the HBs
to ensure that KIK and KMKP loans are approved for a certain purpose and are
utilized for that purpose. To monitor compliance with this requirement, BI's
Credit and Bank Supervision Department regularly evaluates the HBs'
performance in operating the Program.
B. Development Strategy for 1984-87
9.       In pursuit of the program objectives noted above, BI would implement
a development strategy during the period 1984-87 within the framework of its
Third Small Enterprise Development Project (SEDP III). This strategy is
based, in part, on experience under SEDP I and II and takes into account the
financial policy reforms of June 1, 1983 which stress the efficiency of credit
allocation through the banking system. Therefore, the SSE development
strategy would consist of the following main elements:
(a) BI would continue to provide liquidity credits for KIK/KMKP loars
extended by HBs during 1984-86 under the terms and conditions
stipulated in the KIK/KMKP Policy Statement (stated in Part A above)
and augmented by BI circulars; it is envisaged that KIK/KMKP lending
would grow at a slower pace during the period, thereby enabling BI and
the HBs toconsolidate the lending program. BI's current projections,
which are based on past experience and the expected performance of
the economy, show KIK/KMKP loan approvals reaching Rp 345 billion in
1984, increasing slightly to Rp 386 billion in 1985 and Rp 443
billion in 1986. BI, HBs and the World Bank would provide the
financing of this projected lending program over the next two years
starting the last quarter of 1984 at the agreed ratios of 55%, 20%



- 54 -                          ANNEX 4
-~ 54 ~Page 4 of 5
and 25%, respectively, of subloan approvals. It is likely that the
projections noted above would need to be annually revised to more
closely reflect the actual lending under the program and changing
economic conditions.
(b) Improvement of lending capability of HB staff would continue to
be provided through classroom and on-the-job training and distance
learning on the various aspects of the project cycle with special
attention to be given to loan supervision and client follow-up.
Towards this end, BI and its Institute for the Development of Banking
(LPPI) would work closely with HB training institutes, HB managers
and Regional Project Management Units and other local and overseas
training facilities in implementing the Training Plan for 1984-87.
(c) BI would introduce its mediumrterm credit plan for KIK/KMKP by August
1, 1984 to ensure efficient resource mobilization and allocation for
the Program. In addition, it would also encourage and assist HBs in
formulating and implementing their own five-year credit plans.
gd) BI would continue to assist HBs in preparing sound lending programs
to support the SSE sector. Over the next three years, BI would:
(i) provide adequate financial and nonfinancial incentives to
HIBs to encourage their continued participation in the
program;
(ii) conduct a study of SSE promotional activities and
policies and other studies dealing with the marketing
systems of SSEs and other SSE operational characteristics;
the information gained through these studies would be
disseminated to HBs in support of their lending programs;
(iii) provide other forms of assistance to HEB staff to improve
their supervision and monitoring of outstanding loans and
help them follow-up on clients needing assistance; and
(iv) assist HBs in directing their lending program toward
labor-intensive projects in support of existing village
development plans.
(e) The RPMUs, under the general direction of the CPMU, would continue to
be the main contact between BI and the HB branches in the regions.
Over the next three years, the RPMUs would focus their assistance
towards helping HB branches strengthen their monitoring and
supervision procedures and systems as well as their ability to assist
clients.
(f) BI would continue to emphasize active and functional cooperation
between financial (HBs) and nonfinancial assistance agencies in
preparing KIK/KMKP lending programs.



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
(g) BI would undertake a review of its MIS so as to incorporate whatever
improvements are necessary to achieve an effectively operating MIS
capable of meeting, on a timely and accurate basis, the reporting
requirements of the Program by March 31, 1985.
(h) BI would implement an arrears action program. The action program is
designed to address the mounting arrears problems of the handling
banks by improving their loan appraisal, supervision and collection
capabilities and procedures, helping the HBs strengthen their loan
administration procedures and assisting the HBs in establishing an
incentive scheme to encourage branch managers to improve the quality
of their KIK/KMKP portfolio. The action program also establishes
certain criteria regarding the minimum standards of loan collections,
arrears which must be met at handling bank branches.
(i) BI would take the necessary steps to strengthen its management of the
program by rationalizing the operations of the Cooperative and Small
Credit Department (CSCD).
Improvement of Loan Appraisal Capabilities
10.      In the context of building the institutional capacity of the HBs, BI
would take a more active role in assessing and improving the loan appraisal
capabilities especially of weaker HBs. BI will begin to monitor, on a sample
and post-approval basis, the appraisal standards and reports prepared by the
HB as well as rediscount applications submitted to BI which contain data on
the purpose of the loan and a justification of the loan amount granted.
AEP Projects Department
April 10, 1984



-56-                              ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Listing of Tables to be Included in Reporting Requirements for SEDP III
Required frequency
Table                                                               of issues
1.  Summary of Total KIK/KMKP Operations                           Quarterly
2.  Characteristics of Total KIK/KMKP Approvals                    Quarterly
3.  Analysis of Total KIK/KMKP Loan Approvals by
Sector                                                       Quarterly
4.  Analysis of Total KIK/KMKP Loan Approvals by
Province and Sector                                          Quarterly
5. Sectoral Distribution of Total KIK Approvals
by Handling Banks                                            Quarterly
6. Sectoral Distribution of Total KMKP Approvals
by Handling Banks                                            Quarterly
7. Percentage cf KIKIKMKP Loans in Handling Bank
Portfolio                                                    Annually
8. Loans Outstanding by Handling Banks to Bank
Indonesia                                                    Quarterly
9. KIK/KMKP Program (Massal) Loans Approved and
Outstanding                                                  Quarterly
10.  Current Collection Performance on KIK Loans                    Quarterly
11.  Current Collection Performance on XKKP Loans                   Quarterly
12.  Annual Collection Performance on KIK Loans                     Annually
13.  Annual Collection Performance on KHKP Loans                    Annually
14.  Quality of KIK Portfolio                                       Quarterly
15.  Analysis of KIK Loans in Arrears                               Quarterly
16.  Quality of KMKP Portfolio                                      Quarterly
17.  Analysis of KHKP Loans in Arrears                              Quarterly
18.  Training Courses Conducted during the Quarter                  Quarterly
AEP Projects Department
March 6, 1984



ANNEX 6
-57 -                           Page I of 3
INDONESIA
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Supplemental Letter
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(Date of Loan Signing)
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Dear Sirs:
Re:  Loan No.      -IND
(Third Small Enterprise Development Project)
Procedure for Payment of Compensation
1.       In connection with the proposed loan to the Republic of Indonesia
(hereinafter called the Government) in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to $204.65 million for the Third Small Enterprise Development
Project (hereinafter called the Project), I am writing on behalf of the
Government to set forth the procedure to be followed for payments to be made
by the Government to the Handling Banks in order to provide them with an
appropriate return on subloans made under Part A of the Project, as set forth
in Section 3.01(b) of the Loan Agreement.
2.       Under the Project, each KIKIKMKP loan would be financed as follows:
Bank Indonesia liquidity credit       55X
World Bank loan                       25%
Handling Bank funds                   20%
Total                 100%



- 58 -                            ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
3.       Based on the above mentioned financing formula and after taking Into
account the cost of the insurance premium presently payable to ASKRINDO by the
Handling Banks, their administrative costs and a reasonable profit margin, the
total cost of KIK/KMKP lending oprations to Handling Banks is presently
estimated at 13.5% per annum. Since the current lending rate on KI/KMICP
loans is 12% per annum and the Government is not, at the present time, in a
position to raise the present lending rate on KIK/KMKP loans, the Government
has agreed to compensate the Handling Banks to the extent of any shortfall
between the lending rate and the total cost of such lending, including a
reasonable profit margin. Given the current cost of funds, lending rate and
profit margin required, this compensation currently amounts to 1.5% of each
outstanding KIK/KMKP loan.
4.       The Government will review and adjust if necessary the level of the
compensation to Handling Banks on KIK/KMKP loans as set forth in Section 3.03
of the Loan Agreement.
5.       The total amount of compensation payable to Handling Banks on
KIK/f4KP loans will be provided by the Government to Bank Indonesia for
distribution to the Handling Banks. For this purpose, Bank Indonesia will
provide each year pertinent information on the total amount of compensation
required to the Director General of Domestic Monetary Affairs for allocation
of the necessary funds.
6.       The Ministry of Finance will, within three months of the initiation
of Handling Bank commitments under the Project for fiscal year 1984/85 and at
the beginning (April 1) of each subsequent fiscal year, transfer the amount of
the required compensation for the year in question to Bank Indonesia, along
with supplementary amounts required for previous years, if any. Bank
Indonesia will keep this amount in a separate account and will disburse it to



ANNEX 6
- 59 -                            Page 3 of 3
individual Handling Banks on the basis of requests from Handling Banks for
such payments. These requests from Handling Banks will,at present, be for the
equivalent of 12.5% of interest income on KIK/KMKP loans under the Project.
Upon receipt of such requests, Bank Indonesia will notify the Ministry of
Finance of the amount to be disbursed and request permission to disburse; the
Minsitry of Finance undertakes to issue immediately the required letter of
approval to Bank Indonesia. The payment of compensation to Handling Banks
will be co-terminous with the maturity of the related liqidity credit from
Bank Indonesia to the Handling Bank.
Very truly yours,
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By Authorized Representative



ANNEX 7
- 60 -                          Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
THIRD SMALLL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Terms of Reference For
ASKRINDO Review
1.      P.T. Asuransi Kredit Indonesia (or ASKRINDO) is a sta:e credit
insurance corporation jointly owned by the Government of Indonesia (GOI) and
Bank Indonesia (BI). Its primary role is to encourage lending to small and
medium-scale enterprises and to exporters by insuring the banks against credit
risk on loans made to such enterprises. Accordingly, ASKRINDO engages in
credit insurance for small enterprise development programs of GOI/BI, namely
Small Investment Credit (Kredit Investasi Kecil or KIK), Small Permanent
Working Capital Credit (Kredit Modal Kerja Permanen or RMKP), Small Short-term
General Commercial credit (Kredit Exploitasi Biasa or KEB) and for Export
Credit (Kredit Ekspor). In addition, ASKRINDO also engages in the reinsurance
business (fire, transport vehicles, marine, engineering, aviation, etc.) and
export insurance. In terms of the volume of business and impact on financial
position and performance, the KIK/KMKP program is by far the most important
part of ASKRINDO's business.
2.       It is the intention of GOI that ASKRINDO should operate as a self-
sustaining credit insurance institution with its reliance on GOI/BI funds
restricted to paid-in capital contributions needed to expand or diversify the
volume of its business rather than to subsidize its operating losses. Thus,
ASKRINDO designs the terms and conditions of its credit insurance assistance
accordingly and, whenever needed, reviews and revises such terms and
conditions. For example, in 1980 GOI, with the help of a consultant,
conducted a study of ASKRINDO, which led to revisions in ASKRINDO's policies,
terms and operating procedures.
3.       Since late 1981, ASKRINDO has been experiencing a disproportionate
and a constant rise in the claims made and settled against its guarantees.
This heavy call on ASKRINDO has adversely affected its liquidity and
profitability and prima facie is an indication that its policies and
procedures, under present conditions, are no longer conducive to maintaining
ASKRINDO's financial viability. Moreover, the present situation is not
tenable in the long run, as in the absence of appropriate corrective
measure(s), ASKRINDO is likely to continue to suffer heavy liquidity and
financial losses making it heavily dependent on substantial financial support
from GOI. Since a serious weakness in the financial status and prospects of
ASKRINDO would threaten the success of the GOI's important financing programs
such as KIK, KMKP and KEB, GOI has decided to undertake a review of ASKRINDO's
operations and finances. The conclusions of this review would constitute a
basis for appropriate reforms in ASKRINDO in the form of an action program as
well as the related important financing programs.



ANNEX 7
-61 -                           Page 2 of 3
4.       The basic objectives of the review are:  (a) to identify measures
which would lead to making ASKRINDO a self-sustaining and efficient credit
insurance insitution; and (b) to improve the effectiveness of ASKRINDO, in
terms of providing adequate incentives to both ASKRINDO and banks to improve
loan collections. In order to achieve these broad objectives the review would
inter alia address itself to the following aspects:
(a)  The adequacy of the terms and conditions
(including among others premia charged and
the extent of coverage) of the credit inisurance
assistance provided by ASKRINDO on its major
programs in light of the recent experience of loan
defaults, loan recoveries and credit losses;
(b)  ASKRINDO's proper role, if any, in the acceptance
of clients to be insured taking due account of the
importance of efficient lending procedures and of
the operational autonomy of the banks;
ic)  The strengths and weaknesses of the claims settlement
procedures of ASKRINDO, particularly the automaticity
of payments by ASKRINDO to banks on loan defaults prior
to a reasonable effort exerted by the banks in realizing
maximum possible loan recoveries. In doing this it would be
recognized that the procedures for claim settlement
should remain simple and continue to provide adequate
protection to banks against loan defaults and losses;
(d)  GOI/BI's long-term development strategy for ASKRINDO
in terms of future growth and diversification;
Se)  An evaluation of the present financial condition of
ASKRINDO taking into account its contingent accounts
and potential losses thereon and formulation of
possible financial restructuring plan to place
ASKRINDO on a financially sound footing in terms of
its liquidity and capital structure; and
(f)  Appropriate changes, if any in the relevant
insurance treaties of ASKRINDO to reflect the
recommendations of the review.
5.       Based on the findings of the review GOI will take appropriate
decisions and prepare an action program for the necessary changes in
ASKRINDO. Before its final decision, GOI would provide copies of the review,
the revised treaties and the action program to the World Bank and would hold
consultation with the World Bank.
6.       In order to carry out the proposed review, GOI will set-up a Steering
Committee comprising the representatives of the Ministry of Finance (IIOF),
BAPPENAS. BI, ASKRINDO and banks. The representative of MOF will be the
chairman of the Committee and will appoint the Committee's secretary.
ASKRINDO will provide the administrative, office and logistical support to the
Committee. In view of the technical nature of the work, a qualified



ANNEX 7
- 62-                          Page 3 of 3
consultant may be engaged to assist the Committee in the preparation of the
report if considered necessary. The Chairman of the Committee will supervise
the overall work with the assistance of the Secretary and the consultant, if
appointed.
7.       The following timetable will guide the preparation of the review and
the follow-up action:
Date                      Action                   Responsibility
May 1984:      (a)  Formation of the Steering           MOF
Committee
(b)  Selection and appointment
of the consultant,if necessary    MOF
June 1984:      (a)  Preparation of the detailed         Committee
terms of reference of the review
'b)  Start of detailed work on          Committee
the review
October 1984:    (a)  Discussion by the Steering          Committee
Committee of the first draft
of the review
November 1984:    (a)  Finalization of the report          Committee
(b) Preparation of the revised          Committee
draft of the insurance treaties
Cc) Preparation of an Action Program   MOF
for ASKRINDO
December 1984:   (a)  Submission of the report and         MOF
drafts of treaties to and
consultations with the World Bank.
January 1985:    (a)  Begin implementation of the          MOp
agreed Action Program.



ANNEX 8
-63 -                          Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROEJCT
Plan of Action for Improving the Quality
of the KIK/KMKP Loan Portfolio
1.       The proper management and control of arrears of KIK and KHKP loans is
becoming an increasingly serious problem for the KIK/IKMKP program. Arrears of
principal and interest on KIK/KMKP loans have increased from 11Z of the
outstanding portfolio in 1980 to about 252 in 1983. The bulk of arrears,
however, are located in BRI: as of December 31, 1983, arrears on BRI's KIK
portfolio amounted to 39.5Z and arrears on the KMKP portfolio amounted to
33.8% for a combined arrears ratio of 35.3%. BRI's portfolio problems reflect
fundamental structural and institutional weaknesses.  BRI's needs are being
addressed separately and the development of a long-term program of improvem.ent
is now underway. BI and the handling banks recognize the need to develop a
comprehensive set of measures to prevent further deterioration in the quality
of the KIK/KMKP loan portfolio of the handling  banks.
Causes of Arrears
2.       In an effort to understand better the causes of arrears, BI recently
completed a portfolio review of the KIK/KMKP loans of the 10 worst performing
(in terms of arrears) branches of each of the 5 state banks. The causes
identified below relate to the 50 worst performing branches although it is
expected that they would relate to KIK/KMKP operations as a whole. The causes
may be broken down according to three phases of the lending cycle:
A. Project Appraisal: During the initial years, the emphasis of the
KIK/KMKP program was on rapidly expanding the program so as to
reach as many SSE as possible. So many loans were processed by
loan officers generally lacking appropriate skills in order to
meet lending targets, that the quality of loan appraisal
suffered. This pressure to quickly increase the volume of
KIK/KMKP loan approvals seems to have led to: (i) acceptance
without verification of the information provided by the loan
applicant; (ii) loan appraisals which were essentially paper
exercises so that repayment schedules were not based upon a
realistic cash flow projection for the project; and (iii) a lack
of management control and interest on the quality of loan
appraisals as long as the volume of lending increased.
B. Project Implementation. During project implementation, problems
often arose which were attributable to both the handling bank and
the borrower. These include cases of diversion of funds by
borrowers, including the use of KMKP loans for the acquisition of
fixed assets which diminishes the required working capital



ANNEX 8
-64-                             Page 2 of 5
resources available for the project; insufficient site
supervision by loan officers due to the enormous amount of ioans
to be supervised; and changes in project design or implementation
resulting in delays which cause an increase in costs and reduce
the amount of funds available.
C. Project Supervision. A major cause for arrears is that some
borrowers do not take seriously their obligation to pay interest
and repay principal. In addition, funds have been mismanaged by
borrowers: borrowers often confuse business resources with their
personal resources, use KIK/KMKP loan for non-productive
purposes, or use the profits from their businesses for the
purchase of personal consumption goods rather than honoring their
obligations to the banks. Given this lack of appreciation to
honor credit obligations, it is essential that the handling banks
closely administer loans in the repayment period and maintain
contact with the borrowers. Unfortunately, due to the excessive
number of loans each loan officer is responsible for, close
supervision of borrowers is impossible. In addition, the loan
administration procedures of the handling banks, particularly at
the branch level are inadequate to either identify loans in
arrears or to initiate action-prompting reminders to borrowers in
arrears. There is also an inability/unwillingness on the part of
the handling banks to help rehabilitate projects that are
essentially viable; this includes offering debt reschedulings to
borrowers experiencing temporary difficulties or identifying the
appropriate technical assistance agency .which could be of
assistance to the borrower. Moreover, while the handling banks
certainly do not have adequate staff to undertake periodic
supervisions of all KIK/KMKP borrowers, there is a tendency in
some instances to be overly lax on even limited supervision of
problems projects due to the guarantee coverage provided by
ASKRINDO. The impact of ASKRINDO's coverage on handling banks
incentives to fully pursue loan collections is being evaluated
under a separate review of ASKRINDO which is designed to
rationalize its terms and conditions.
Action Program to Improve the quality of the KIK/KMKP Program
3.       The actions detailed below designed to deal with the above mentioned
causes of arrears will require close cooperation between BI and the handling
banks. In particular, there will be a major change in the emphasis of the
work programs of the RPMUs to working closely with the handling bank branches
in identifying their particular project appraisal, implementation and
supervision weaknesses and proposing appropriate solutions. The action
program outlined below is also grouped according to the same three phases of
the lending cycle discussed in para. 2. In addition, further actions required
are set out in paras. 4 and 5.
A. Project Appraisal. The following elements are the actions which
will be taken to improve project appraisal:
i. Bl has recently drafted a new Policy and Strategy Statement
which explicitly recognizes a change in the emphasis of the



ANNEX 8
-65-                            Page 3 of 5
KIK/KMKP Program from expansion of the lending program to
consolidation and improvement of the quality of the
KIK/KMKP loan portfolio. It is expected that as BI reduces
its emphasis on expanding the KIK/KMKP lending program, the
pressure on handling banks and in particular their branch
managers and loan officers, to maintain a high volume of
new loan approvals will decline, such that good performance
will no longer be judged solely in volume terms.
ii. In support of this changing emphasis, BI will review by
December 31, 1984 its existing KIK/KMKP circulars with a
view to ensuring that proper guidelines regarding
eligibility of borrowers are in place; in particular, the
good credit-standing of potential borrowers would need to
be established.
iii. Furthermore, by September 30, 1984, BI, in consultation
with the handling banks, will issue a standardized
appraisal checklist which would guide loan officers on the
type of information which needs to be collected to prepare
adequate appraisal reports.
iv. The terms of reference of the RPMUs will also be modified
so that the RPMUs, when requested by the handling banks,
will be able to provide guidance/assisEance to the handling
banks in project appraisal.
v. The RPMUs will also conduct post-approval reviews on a
sample basis of the handling banks' appraisal reports to
ensure that the handling banks have adequate loan appraisal
capabilities. Training of loan officers in the methods
appropriate for the appraisal of SSE projects would be
continued.
B. Project Implementation. The following elements are the actions
which will be taken to improve project implementation:
i.  Misuse of funds by the borrower is more difficult for KIK
loans than KMKP loans as KIK loans are for fixed
investments and it is the policy of BI and the handling
banks to disburse KIK resources directly to supplier. For
KMKP loans, new procedures have been derived which would
require the borrower to specify for what purpose(s) he will
utilize the KMKP ioan and to provide receipts for
individual procurement items in excess of RP 500 thousand.
ii. To help the borrower establish accounting procedures which
would keep separate his business and personal interests,
the RPMUs as part of their on-the-job-training of
counterparts, would work with the handling banks and their
clients. This type of training would prove particularly
useful to the REPMU counterpart staff once they return to
their respective institutions. The terms of reference of
the RPMUs will be modified to incorporate this function.



ANNEX 8
-66-                            Page 4 of 5
iii.  BI, through the RPMUs will promote liason services by   -
handling banks staff between SSE clients and relevant
extension service agents to improve the ability of
borrowers to successfully implement their projects.
C. Project Supervision. The following elements are the actions
which will be taken to improve project supervision:
i. Given that it is neither cost effective nor practical to
expect the handling banks to significantly increase their
staffing levels to undertake detailed periodic project
supervision, BI and the handling banks must focus their
efforts on improving loan administration and supervision
systems and procedures. Therefore, BI, through its RPMUs,
will undertake a review of these systems and procedures as
they currently exist at the branch level with a view to
identifying present weaknesses. This review is to be
completed by December 31, 1984. Based on the findings of
this review, BI will discuss with the handling banks the
improvements which are necessary. In consultation with the
handling banks, BI will issue by June 30, 1985, guidelines
for proper loan administration and supervision. The RPHUs
will be available to help the handling bank branches
implement these guidelines and BI's Credit Supervision
Department will regularly monitor, starting September 1985,
whether these guidelines are being adhered to by the
handling banks. CSCD would regularly analyze and take
appropriate action based on the information provided by the
Credit Supervision Department.
ii. Moreover, BI would require the handling banks with arrears
difficulties to identify (where not already existing) by
December 1984, staff working in the handling banks'
regional offices who could be called upon to assist
branches identified by BI as having serious arrears
problems. These staff would analyze the branch's causes
for arrears and its ability to deal with these causes
(i.e., improve loan administration/supervision systems and
procedures, rescheduling of essentially viable projects,
etc.). The staff would also be responsible for either
providing the branch directly with the assistance it needs
to improve the quality of its portfolio or for arranging
the required assistance.
iii.  Bi is exploring the possibility of establishing an
integrated permanent team among the involved Government
agencies local and regional) to take actions to increase
collections, on a case by case basis, under the KIK/KMKP
program. BI wili u_- the Presidential Decree (INPRES) No.
10/1981 regarding the collecticn of BIMAS loans as a model.
iv. Finally, BI increasingly recognizes that it: c-der for the
quality of the KIK/KMKP portfolio to improve, the
accountability of the handling bank branch manager must be



ANNEX 8
- 67-                            Page 5 of 5
increased. Therefore, BI will discuss with the handling
banks the additional ways and means by which both the
motivation and responsibility of the branch manager can be
increased.
v. In an effort to improve both BI and the handling banks'
data base on collections and arrears data, an MIS review is
being undertaken by BI. This review will encompass an
evaluation of the handling banks loan administration
systems and procedures and it is expected that the
timeliness and accuracy of collection and arrears data will
be improved by March 31, 1985.
vi. BI recognizes the need to monitor more closely the
performance of the handling bank branches in terms of
collections and arrears, and that it is important to
rehabilitate those branches not having the capability to
adequately appraise and supervise KIK/KMKP loans. For this
purpose, inacceptable performance will be defined in terms
of collection rates which fall below: (a) no less than 60%
in 1984, 65% in 1985, 75% in 1986 and 80% thereafter for
quarterly and annually current collection ratios; and (b)
an annual overall collection ratio no less than 40% in
1984, 50% in 1985, 60% in 1986 and 75% thereafter. If a
branch fails to meet these requirements, the respective
regional RPMU will work directly with that branch in
identifying the causes for poor collections and BI (through
the RPMU) will subsequently design in consultation with the
handling bank head office, an action program to deal with
the specific problems identified at that branch.
vii. The CPMU will be responsible for monitoring the
implementation of this action program.
AEP Projects Department
March 6, 1984



INDONESiA
Bank Indonesia Organiain Chcrd
-.                                                           ' -                               *_'-_.D
I aT
L                     .                                                      _, -       ,t I
L____> ~  ~         ~        ~         ~        mmaa._
_                                                                                                                              I     -   I"DFVi" -p
EMT D-
DZII~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F.
I.C.-V                              ro       DM rer_
L2'- ~  ~     ~      ~       Om~I                                               
AFPPlVb.C DWO W-l~~~~L..



~                                  E - 
L=*
I   h
L~!L
r~                           I ^  E   [ E  -
1 F 1 F 1 F 1 F Al-agoE1E 4                                                                       > }      D
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w                                        1                   - 1  "IEF     I1 -L
I                                                      Iq   IU    X
3r m r--i
.umeM~~~~0os                                                                                        II
L.
^-Opwa~~~~ou.
L~~~~~ 
WIID4&~~~~~~Ij  ~ ~ ~ ~ OW-C
_  weo  -                           -               -              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  UU 



.OO~      -THAILAND   'or
BSaida Acth ,
Cr~~~~ -                                                                    i''         ;-,  .    oK                  F:~~~~~~~*nul- 
2.M .                                                      South             China    Se a                     BRUNEI                                    ji
N  J2        --,*-          -- MALAYSIA                                        />t,)4>_x
12.-  /                                                                     -.
Medan                                                                                                       L            '
*   @  -- A .,:; .   Kualb Lumpur                   -
N.-:6  ----,I    --;--                                                  ,                  MALAYSIA               )
1 15
tbSp                   ...a~->~-SINGAPORE                              \~~' .     7     N v       -                              S    /                    -
.     .                  8Sd*                                                                                    A     / -- 1
~  19  Pe&onb&a,      ITonjung Platng
0  -o       >            ---    -     ,                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K  L    I  M   a NJ A    N IT  .. ..... .. .. . -.
vb z   ,  !                                     ~~~~~~~~        ~     ~    ~     ~ ~       ~ ~         ~~Ponibnak,  .r     Smrd
I  -ov   '  I    x,   * Of   X  f   ,. /S    /  .           ,,            4                             14 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~70 EAsT                                                                                                             BcdkppV                         19gu  g ^   ':,Bnumcn;'   > ;/-     -
5  4 SFliCI^L CAPITAL           -    {6   1 l~~~~~~~~anuagonlonL 
TERRITORY~~~~~~~~' JIIRT            _      .,: -                                                                                                        .  /Ir.,.  \   . .
WROVIFIM                                         loE@R^RTBRTORY VOCYAKARTA  Ii  M                     r
EIAST -J./_*AVRA                                                              ,,                                        ,i           -A--                                   n
CENTRAL JAVAI=R1                                                                                                     *Y
5ROUNCH  /^IIIA                                                                aaWNDnlwad                                     a   B          -ei   vsw
3WEST JAVA                               2130
p rCIAL CAPITAL1
TERRITORY JAKARTA                                                                         I    a    v   a                    s   e   a          UjungD 'anag      -
SPECIAL TERRITORY YOGYAKARTA
NOfRTH SUIATRA'                                  -u kb3n                                                                                                      A R5
'Lam.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
JIAMJ                                                               4JAJCRTA
WIEST SUMATRA                                                                   J A  V A
SOUTH SUMATRA
LiArPuuo                                                                       4,a..Inc                          ADURA
SECIAL TERRITORY ACEH
"  EPdGKULlJ                                                          Bd'k&Az~                              'M-         .
'WEST IKAUMAkATAN                                                             j'~'g A4~.                     ~      rby
EAST ICAtIMANTAN                                                                J r .?.&M                              ..
SOUTH KCALIMANDTAN         F7Ww MMs MMs., pwoed by                                                           -.Q)BUSMAW
CENTRAL KALtAINTAN        V1W i'' .   tdcs                                                     S       .-       ...~        6i~~-                        i                    S
SOTVJLAWESI            to 'w ca-nc Of VW"                                                            ~         ~        ~       ',ttY fl                ,
2ZSoLR nu.                         lr
'C1NTRAL IJLAWESI                  s        
SOUr_FAS SUMES,Vileof5IIII5NEIUB*            In cian                 O ce  a n                                    Dner
INUho AS SUtAweSI          =  Zy  w                                                                                                  IDj;
19   NOT SAULES                 C04XWk-W,no dswhfMwW                                                                                                           {WingQApu 25
R' ALI                     a  mm MO   nup   ms*" W. Al.                                                                                                      a/US&A
2.WEST NUSA TENGGARA        Wf S ?W h. It am -V VW
EAST PIUSA TENGGARA       hIismobIWW Feuacs Cap,.sAi
INlId JAVA                 IJIIIIS  WWSE
21 TIMOR T,,UR              de NW tweicr' ar y
tOW     ona  lac                                                    orlow;,l o



IBRD 15515I
X               t2r                                                               IiO2?                            135                              i;r    JANUARY in"
INDONESIA
;:  ;. XPHILIPPINES                                                  THIRD SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT '
SEOW REGIONS
A   REGIONAL PROJECT WMNAGEMENT UNITS
20  POPULATION IN MILLIONS lBM ESTIMATED
I-s                                                                                                     _  _.  -   PROVINCIALCAOIJDARIES
-  - INTERNATIONAL BOUINDARIES
Menad 
-  /   E             1 3'         '                              HALMAHERA                   p a c i fic                        c e on 
Garantolo
_- _ida  /                    Mowikwod
I  /  .%                                   I                     ~~~~~~~~~~26
.     ~     19 ,.              KEMAA?J5A 22                      /
E                A AN                                                                                        Joyapura
SULAWESI 51                                              .                                                                 *1
!  18,  .                                                                     N V z x--  \  Fakfak
'Nobir;       IR/AN  JArA r A
T5   *VKendari v                   Mau       Ambon                                                  Enorotoll                      |
->         ' 20  -                                                                       _
Kokoaau
Ujung Paridang.                                                                                                      N                  - ots 
-- BHaubau             g Ban d o                S e o a
is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--VA                                                                                                                                               S nFS}Dliake i
* _  _  -    Tb  s   I~4- 
Mourners   Atarnbua
Walngoapu2s          @V    '           27                                     o         o         0         O         G        D
r                                                  O,h0    IOD  2qo    200      300       40D ,O0 OoS
:Vaingop    Kupa25             27AEO                                                         MILES
9    l(OG  200  300   400  500  600   700  5100
KILOMETERS
Go0                               125                                13                                13? T5Ao



