Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3815-1
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE .
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$204.65 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 4, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit         Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00           =   Rp 1,000
Rp 1.00               US$0.0010
Rp 1 million      =   US$1,000
FISCAL YEAR
Government       -  April 1 to March 31
Bank Indonesia - April 1 to March 31
Handling Banks - January L to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ASKRINDO       -   Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation
BAPINDO        -   Development Bank of Indonesia
BI             -   Bank Indonesia
BPKP           -   Agency for Finance and Development Control
BRI           --  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
GOI            -   Government of Indonesia
KIK            -   Small Investment Credit
KMKP           -   Small Permanent Working Capital Credit
Repelita       -   National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I,
1969-74, Repelita II, 1974-79, Repelita III,
1979-84, Repelita IV, 1984-89)
SEDP           -   Small Enterprise Development Project
SSE           -   Small-Scale Enterprise



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:      Bank Indonesia (BI) and Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
Amount:             USa204.65 million equivalent, including the capitalized
front-end fee of US$0.51 million
Terms:              Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate
Relending Terms:   The Government of Indonesia would relend US$202.9 million
equivalent to BI at a fixed interest rate which would be
the same as the Bank rate prevailing at the time of loan
signing and would thus bear the risk of any interest rate
fluctuation on the Bank loan; the Government would relend,
at an interest rate of 3% p.a., US$1.75 million to BRI.
The Government's subsidiary loans to BI and BRI would have
a repayment term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace.
The foreign exchange risk would also be borne by the
Government. The end-user rate under the credit component
of the project is currently 12% p.a.
Project
Description:      The fixed investment and working capital (KIK/KMKP) credit
component of the project would assist the Government from
mid-1984 to mid-1986 in financing small enterprise projects
nationwide in nearly all economic sectors. It is expected
that through the provision of credit, additional employment
opportunities would be created and the incomes of small
entrepreneurs would be improved. Approximately 173,000
subloans would be made. The working capital (KMKP)
financing is expected to particularly help small entre-
preneurs to keep their businesses functioning during the
present prolonged recession. The credit component of the
proposed loan helps to finance KIK/KMKP subloans committed
over a two-year period. The technical assistance component
is designed to: (a) strengthen BI's management of the
KIK/KMKP program by providing appropriate advisors; and
(b) improve the capacity of the handling banks to implement
the KIK/KMKP program, with particular attention being given
to the needs of BRI. The project faces moderate risks. BI
is committed to making major improvements in its management
and administration of the project in order to improve the
handling banks' capabilities in implementing the KIK/KMKP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
program. The growing arrears problem associated with
KIK/KMKP lending is being addressed by an Action Program
which has been agreed upon by BI and the Bank, and by
specific technical assistance to BRI, the handling bank
with the highest arrears. Wit:h regard to IKMP lending,
which the Bank would be reimbtursing for the first time
under the proposed project, new appraisal, disbursement and
amortization procedures have been agreed with BI which
should help ensure that loans are used for the purposes
intended. Furthermore, ia post-disbursement review of KMKP
loans initially financed under the project would be com-
pleted by September 30, 1985, and would show whether these
new procedures are adequate or whether further modifica-
tions would need to be introduced during the course of
project implementaltion.
Estimated Cost:                                 Local       Foreign       Total
--------(US$ million)-------
Credit component                        466.00      310.00      776.00
Technical assistance                     17.04       10.61       27.65
Total Project Cost                483.04      320.61      803.65
Front-end fee on Bank loan                 -          0.51        0.51
Total Financing Required          483.04      321.12      804.16
Financing Plan:
Proposed Bank loan (including
front-end fee)                          4.88      199.77     204.65
Government/BI                           375.40       58.00      433.40
Handling banks                          100.26       58.00      158.26
Other donors                              2.50        5.35        7.85
Total                           483.04      321.12      804.16
Estimated
Disbursements:                           IBRD FY:  FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
------(US$ million)------
Annual                    25.01  85.30  71.44  22.90
Cumulative                25.01 110.31 181.75 204.65
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Appraisal Report: No. 4956-IND, dated May 4, 1984.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$204.65 million, inclu-
ding the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance the Third Small Enterprise
Development Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.  The Government would
relend approximately US$202.9 million equivalent to Bank Indonesia at a fixed
interest rate, which would be the same as the Bank rate prevailing at the time
of loan signing, and would thus bear the risk of any interest rate fluctuation
on the Bank loan; the Government would relend the remaining $1.75 million of
the loan proceeds to Bank Rakyat Indonesia at an interest rate of 3% p.a..
The Government's subsidiary loans to Bank Indonesia and Bank Rakyat Indonesia
would have a repayment term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace. The
foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies and Prospects for Economic Growth and
Transformation" (No. 5066-IND dated April 26, 1984) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 2, 1984. Annex I gives selected social and
economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two
million sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at about
2.2% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of
agricultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these
primary resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4% p.a.  The 1982 estimate of GNP ?r capita is
US$580, which places Indonesia among middle income countries.-
1/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public
expenditures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this
occurred in the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The
Government took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion.  Oil
receipts also provided about 60% of Central Government receipts by 1980/81 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand.  The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure, support ser-
vices and effective use of subsidies to maintain producer incentives. This
supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 4% p.a. over the past decade,
and movement towards self-sufficiency in rice. Manufacturing also enjoyed a
high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14% p.a.), although this was from
a very low base and predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic
market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis
for longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past eighteen months include:
(a) a 28% devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the po:Licy of full convertibility;
(b) a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c)  successive price increases for petroleum products over the past two
years, which have largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d)  a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings; and
(e) approval of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at increasing
government revenues by broadening the tax base, simplifying the
structure of rates and improving administration.



6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. Non-oil GDP rose by an estimated 4%
during 1983 and the balance of payments situation is improving. In par-
ticular, the current account deficit has been reduced from US$7.3 billion
(8.4% of GNP) in 1982/83 to about US$4.2 billion (6.0% of GNP) in 1983/84.
The major factors responsible for this improvement are higher export earnings
from non-oil products (such as rubber, palm oil, tin, plywood and fertilizer)
and import cuts resulting from the Government's efforts to curb aggregate
demand. The rephasing of the public investment program was particularly
effective in reducing import levels. The Government's restraint is also
evident in the budget, where real expenditures have risen on average by only
2% p.a. over the past two years. Routine expenditure has been held in check
by a freeze on civil service salaries (a 15% increase is budgeted for
1984/85), a sharp cut in budgetary transfers to public corporations and
reduced subsidies on food, fertilizer and petroleum products. This fiscal
discipline, in turn, helped keep domestic inflation down to about 12% in
1983/84, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the 1983 devaluation
and the recent petroleum price adjustments.
Policies for Medium-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        A sustained rate of growth of at least 5% p.a. is probably necessary
to have a significant impact on employment creation and poverty alleviation
over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a growth rate, without
generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is one of the major
challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation of the economy
will require continued action in three key policy areas: management of the
public investment program, rationalization of the external trade regime and
development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import
content of investment while still meeting the Government's employment
objectives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to
facilitate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment
program. Possible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans
(at least for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high
priority projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection
procedures. The Government is also considering ways to improve project imple-
mentation, so that investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given
the budgetary constraints, it is expected that the private sector will be
called upon to play an increasingly important role in capital formation. To
encourage this process, the Government announced in August 1983 that there
would be a major overhaul of the regulatory framework for private investment,
with the objective of simplifying and streamlining the licensing system.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in



- 4 -
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist
measures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and.
exchange rate rnlicies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for
comprehensive trade reform.  On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has
been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quantitative
restrictions. The difficult external payments siLuation faced by the country
since 1982 has reinforced this tendency.  There are strong arguments for
adopting trade and industrial policies which provide more equal incentives for
supplying the domestic and export markets. A com-prehensive program of import
policy reforms might include a rollback of import bans, gradual reductions in
tariffs, adjustment assistance to industries affected by import liberalization
and anti-dumping legislation to protect domestic industries from unfair
competition.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conf-Licts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the
importance of the mineral sector, particularly pet:roleum. However, there are
two important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of
growth to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of
these is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the
natural increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside
those of their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the
Outer Islands, of which 1 million were resettled through the official trans-
migration program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both



between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita
consumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output.
This is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Outer Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem
continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and
possibly rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the
1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. The
1979-81 bumper rice harvests appear to have led to improvements in wages and
incomes in Java, while agricultural incomes in parts of the Outer Islands
dependent on export crops declined. This situation may have been reversed
following the 1983 devaluation, but evidence on this is still inconclusive.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. As compared to the 1970s, the growth
in the labor force is expected to increase over the next decade (to about 2.7%
p.a.) while economic growth will be lower. The resultant squeeze in the labor
market is not expected to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but
there is a serious risk of stagnant or declining labor income in both rural
areas and the urban informal sector. Given the balance of payments constraint
facing the country, Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the
pattern of economic growth. Although over the long term the structural shift
in employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in the
economy. It is therefore important to maintain an appropriate policy on
agricultural mechanization (e.g., by ensuring purchases of equipment are at
economic prices), to spread labor demand on Java throughout the agricultural
year (e.g., by improving water resource management and development) and to
encourage agricultural development on the Outer Islands. It is also important
that public expenditures are increasingly directed towards sectors, such as
social programs and rural infrastructure, which generate employment or ease
the burden of adjustment on the poor. For the private sector, the Government
needs to ensure that incentives appropriately reflect the priority for labor-
intensive investments.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in junior
secondary schools is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of the
population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and
a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole
system. In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities,
notably at the sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement
in quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the



- 6 -
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75%
respectively for 1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the
Government's modest growth targets (5% p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$4.6 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.4 billion p.a. of official development
assistance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange thes necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good (see paragraph 16) and a
comfortable level of external reserves has been rebuilt over the past year.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1983 is estimated at
US$23.7 billion, with an additional US$11.2 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 47% and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 22%; there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debtl at the end of 1983 is estimated at 14
years. The Government continues to manage ilts external debt quite
prudently. Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt
service ratio, based on net exports, at or below 20%. However, because of the
sharp drop in oil export receipts in 1983, the ratio rose to 23% in that
year. With the projected levels and composition of borrowings and export
earnings, Indonesia's public debt service ratio, again based on net exports,
would rise to about 28% in 1985 and then gradually decline to about 23% by the
end of the decade. With private MLT debt included, the total debt service
ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross exports, would rise from 19%
in 1983 to around 22% during 1985-88 and decline to 20% in 1990.  While debt
management will require careful attentiLon in the coming years, the projected
debt service ratios are not excessive by international standards.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 2
17.       As of March 31, 1984, Indonesia hacd received 48 IDA credits total-
ling US$931.8 million, and 85 Bank loans amounting to US$6,259.5 million. IFC
commitments totalled US$162.2 million. The share of the Bank Group in
2/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fifth Urban
Development Project (No. P-3778-IND), circulated under cover of R84-91,
dated April 19, 1984.



- 7 -
in Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1982
was 13.3%, and the share of debt service, 7.9% compared with 11.2% and 7.6%,
respectively, in 1981. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1984. Given the critical importance of
agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food sec-rity and
exports, over one-third of Bank Group supported projects have been in this
sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to virtually all
other sectors of the economy, including transportation, education, urban
development, water supply, rural development, nutrition, industrial devel-
opment financing (including small-scale industry), power, telecommunications,
population and technical assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the
expansion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was
also given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities.
19.       Because the country has moved from a position of resource surplus to
deficit, as discussed in Part I, the development momentum will in all likeli-
hood decelerate in the short run. To minimize this adverse impact will
require effective policy reform to improve the environment for private invest-
ment and to mobilize additional domestic resources so that investments in
industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources develop-
ment can continue. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is being
geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the subsector
and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this level. In
addition, in order to ease the Government's current resource constraint and
maintain the pace of project implementation in priority areas, we have taken
steps, under the Special Assistance Program, to accelerate disbursements in 17
ongoing projects in the treecrops and irrigation sectors and one project each
in the energy and transport sectors. The only significant shift anticipated
in the composition of lending involves a rapid expansion planned in the educa-
tion sector, a direct response to the severe shortage of skilled manpower. In
the industrial sector, in-depth sector work is focused on a policy to promote
industrialization which will build on Indonesia's comparative advantage in
labor- and resource-intensive industries. This analysis may lead to a series
of industrial projects which would facilitate sectoral reform. In energy,
sector work and continued lending is concentrating on policies to diversify
Indonesia's energy base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning.



-- 8 -
Irrigation and tree crops will continue toD absorb a substantial portion of
lending in view of the importance of these sectors, and continued support for
transport is anticipated.  Continued lending in the areas of provision of
social services, in population, health and nutrition, urban development and
water supply, will increasingly emphasize institutional support and the devel-
opment of innovative low-cost solutions.
20.        The last few years have seen major improvements in the disbursenent
ratio 3/ from a low of 13% in FY80, to 18% in FY83.  The poor FY80 ratio was
in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments during the
FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia increased by 122%
compared to a Bank wide increase of 83%.  However, it also reflected implemen-
tation difficulties arising out of GOI's budgetary, procurement and payment
procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of
credit.  The severe shortage of manageriaL and technical manpower of course
compounds the problem. A number of steps have been taken by GOI and the Bank
to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia
to analyze the problems and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and
financial procedures. The GOI and t:he Bank have also instituted formal and
regular joint review procedures to identif.y general and project specific
problems and work out corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminLars
were held in Jakarta in September 1979 ancd November 1981.  As a consequence of
these joint initiatives, GOI has taken measures to streamline some of the
complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation.
The Bank is helping the GOI in a special effort to identify problems in the
construction industry with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions
and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been
identified as one of the major Causes of implementation problems in
Indonesia,  Finally, to reduce initial project implementation difficulties,
many operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a later
stage in the project cycle. As a result of these efforts, improvements are
taking place.  This was reflected in an increase in disbursements from
US$204.0 million in FY79 to US$582.8 million in FY83.  It is nevertheless
important that the Bank and G01 maintain t:heir efforts.
21.        From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA.  Due to the country's improved credit:worthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending
has been through IBRD loans, with a modest: amount of IDA lending being
justified primarily on poverty grourLds, as the per capita GNP was well below
the IDA cutoff of US$625. Given Ind.onesiaL's much improved creditworthiness,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
22.        The proposed project constitutes the seventh lending operation for
Indonesia presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects at
an advanced stage of preparation and. appraisal include the Second Swamp
Reclamation and Fourteenth Power Projects.
3/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive u-adisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



- 9 -
PART III - SECTOR BACKGROUND
The Small-Scale Enterprise (SSE) Sector
23.       Scope and Characteristics of SSEs.  Comprehensive data indicating
the relative importance of small-scale enterprises (SSEs) in each sector are
not available. The scarcity of reliable data and the variety of definitions
used for SSEs continue to be a problem for policy makers. For the manufactur-
ing sector, the 1979 industry survey showed that there were over 1.5 million
small-scale and household manufacturing establishments in 1979, emp4pying over
80% of the 4.5 million persons engaged in manufacturing activities.-   How-
ever, SSEs accounted for less than a quarter of total manufacturing value-
added because of substantially lower value-added per worker than in large-
/medium-scale industry. Between 1974/75 and 1979, the SSE share of value-
added remained remarkably constant. But employment in household industry
dropped by over one million, reflecting a rapid growth in productivity in
household establishments (from a very low base) and a shift in employment to
small and large/medium enterprises. Overall, SSE manufacturing employment
declined by 8% over this period, while value-added rose by 76% in constant
prices. Although productivity, and to some extent income levels, were raised
in this sector in line with national objectives, the Government's other main
goal in promoting SSE development--providing jobs for the burgeoning labor
force--has not been achieved in the manufacturing industry in recent years.
In the other economic sectors, rough estimates of the number of small enter-
prises and the distribution of employment can be derived from the 1980
Population Census tabulations of the labor force by economic activity and
employment status. The total number of small-scale enterprises, including
those engaged in farming, fishery, forestry and livestock, was estimated to
exceed 27 million in 1980. Most were very small, with an average of less than
two persons employed; together, they accounted for between 71% and 85% of
total employment throughout the Indonesian economy.
24.       Credit Needs of SSEs.  The credit needs of SSEs cover both fixed
investment and working capital, although the need for working capital may be
quantitatively more important for many SSEs at this point in time. This is
reflected in the pattern of Bank Indonesia's credit program for SSEs, with
about two-thirds of outstanding loans going for working capital. There seems
little doubt that the costs of maintaining inventories of raw materials, spare
parts, work-in-progress and finished goods, and the costs of paying wages and
4/   Conducted annually by the Central Bureau of Statistics, the annual
surveys define small-scale enterprises as firms employing 5 to 19 persons
and household establishments as firms employing 1 to 4 persons. Banks
use an asset-based definition for SSEs (Rp 100 million net worth for SSEs
engaged in manufacturing and construction and Rp 40 million for those
engaged in other sectors). This report relies largely on the employment
size definition.



- 10 -
of meeting the subsistence needs of family workers during periods of slack
demand, are significant financial burdens on SSEs. They represent real
capital costs of operating a business; and providing jobs, costs which are no
less crucial or onerous than the cost of acquiring fixed assets.  Availability
of working capital credit from financial institutions also reduces the depen-
dence of SSEs on the other major external sources of short-term capital
(traders and money-lenders), who may exact too high a price for its provi-
sion. Access, convenience and timely availability of credit may be more
important to SSE borrowers than low interest rates, although rates in the
informal market are often prohibitively high, thus limiting the business
activities of those enterprises that do not: have access to formal markets.
25.       Promotion Policies of SSEs.  In the early 1970s, the credit needs of
SSEs were going largely unmet, except: by relatively expensive, short-term
loans through the informal market. In December 1973, therefore, the Govern-
ment introduced two special credit programs, to finance the development of SSEs
in practically all economic sectors t:hroughout Indonesia. Kredit Investasi
Kecil (KIK) loans are intended to provide Tmedium- to long-term financing for
the acquisition of fixed assets. Kredit Modal Kerja Permanen (KMKP) loans are
intended to finance the permanent working capital needs of SSEs.  Bank
Indonesia (BI), the central banks provided the bulk of the financing for these
credit programs, which are extended on relatively liberal terms (para. 38).
26.       Apart from the provision of credit, the Government also seeks to
promote indigenous SSE development through a variety of interventions involv-
ing free or subsidized inputs and through administrative controls.  The
Government provides technical assistance to SSEs through extension services,
comprising entrepreneurial/technical advice and training, and offers produc-
tion inputs and facilities and markelting assistance through subcontracting
arrangements, provision of showrooms and sales campaigns. The main policy
instruments consist of tax and other incentives to promote the growth of
certain SSE products or SSE groupings, such as producers' cooperatives;
licensing is used to regulate SSE activities in all sectors and prevent
"saturation" of the market for SSE products. The Government also has a
reservation scheme which restricts the manufacture of certain products to
SSEs.
27.       Technical support to SSEs is carried cut by a number of government
departments at both central and regional levels and target groups are broadly
defined along sectoral lines. Due to the number and location of agencies
involved in providing assistance, considerable duplication exists and the
impact of assistance on SSEs has been mixed.  As a first step towards better
coordination and more effective technical support for SSEs, BI would admin-
ister a study, to be undertaken by consultants under the proposed project,
which would review the various technical assistance delivery mechanisms cur-
rently operating for SSEs as well as the existing Government policies which
either promote or constrain SSE development. Because a number of government
agencies would be interested in the recommendations of the study, an inter-
ministerial steering committee (comprising representatives of the Ministries
of Industry and Finance, the National Development Planning Agency and BI)
would be established to review the study's terms; of reference, progress in
implementation and findings. This study would be financed by the proposed



- 11 -
loan and is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985 (Section 2.15 of the
draft BI Project Agreement). Agreement with BI on the tenms of reference and
timing of the proposed study were confirmed at negotiations.
The Financial Sector
28.       Financial Institutions.  The Indonesian financial sector comprises a
banking system with Bank Indonesia at the apex, five state-owned commercial
banks, 79 private national commercial banks, 10 foreign banks, a state devel-
opment bank (Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO)), 26 regional development
banks, and three non-bank financial institutions which are principally engaged
in granting medium- and long-term credit and equity participation.  Bank
Indonesia plays a particularly important role in Indonesia's financial system.
In addition to its usual central banking functions, BI has traditionally
provided loans directly for certain large-scale investments by public enter-
prises, and to priority economic sectors through special rediscount facilities
(liquidity credits). BI, in fact, has been the principal source of funds for
special credit programs for small- and large-scale enterprises, providing
75-80% of funds for such programs through refinancing/liquidity credits. The
five state commercial banks dominate the commercial banking system, and as of
end-1982 accounted for 76% of deposits and 79% of advances of deposit money
banks. Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), the largest state commercial bank in
Indonesia, has also been the largest lender under the KIK/KMKP program,
accounting for 53% of the outstanding KIK/KMKP portfolio nationwide
(para. 46). The proposed project includes a technical assistance component
for institutional improvements in BRI.
29.       Recent Financial Sector Policy Reforms.  The reduction of oil prices
and the international recession in 1981/82 contributed to a deterioration in
Indonesia's medium-term economic outlook. Faced with a tight balance of pay-
ments situation and erosion of budgetary surpluses, the Government, in early
1983, announced a major economic reform package, which included a 28% devalua-
tion of the Rupiah, domestic oil price increases, reductions in subsidies, and
rephasing of the public investment program. Complementary reforms in the
financial sector were introduced on June 1, 1983, aimed at increasing domestic
resource mobilization and improving financial intermediation, increasing
efficiency of resource use, and providing greater operational flexibility to
commercial banks. The major reforms included a substantial de-regulation of
interest rates, a sharp reduction in the scope of subsidized rediscounting
facilities/liquidity credits and the abolition of all credit ceilings. State
banks were allowed to set their own deposit rates as well as lending rates for
all non-priority programs, placing them on the same footing as private banks
in this regard. The scope of rediscounting facilities (virtually all state
bank lending was eligible for refinancing earlier) was reduced sharply and
essentially limited to priority credit programs, and the lending rates for
most of these programs (which had varied from 6.0% to 13.5% earlier) were
unified at 12%. This new lending rate is equal to the current 12% rate of
inflation. Over the project period, however, it is expected that the lending
rate would become positive in real terms given projected rates of inflation of
10% for 1985-87, and 9% for 1988. This new rate, however, is considerably
below current market rates of 18-21%.



- 12. -
30.       The measures which the Government has taken in the interest of
financial sector reform constitute entirely appropriate and important
measures. As with any phased reform effort, additional follow-up steps will
be required. Of particular relevance to the proposed project, the Government
and Bank Indonesia recognize the need to raise ithe interest rates under
preferential credit programs to bring them more closely in line with market
rates. They are, however, reluctant to raise them at this particular time,
because the interest rate structure (including raising of lending rates for
KIK loans from 10.5% to 12%) was overhauLed only recently (June 1, 1983).
They also believe that interest rates in Indonesia are likely to continue to
fluctuate as they adjust to the market following the financial reform and that
market rates are likely to decline during the coming year.  BI would like to
see the interest rate system stabilize before taking any additional measures
to adjust the level of interest rates and, in any case, the rates of preferen-
tial credit programs are expected to remain positive in real terms. The Bank
is working with the Government on the interest rate and subsidy issue in a
sector-wide context and is planning, with Government agreement, to undertake
substantial financial sector work over the coming year. This work will expand
the basis for the Bank's policy dialogue with the Government during the next
few years and provide us with a better basis for discussing the appropriate
interest rate policy for priority sectors. In the meanwhile, to support the
KIK/KMKP program, the Government has agreed to provide, as an explicit budget
subsidy, the funds necessary to allow the handLing banks to earn an adequate
return, given their current cost of funds and the KIK/KMKP lending rate, which
is currently fixed at 12% (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). In
addition, the appropriateness of the KIK/KMKP lending rate and the subsidy to
handling banks would be reviewed annually in the course of project implementa-
tion (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.09(a) of the
draft BI Project Agreement).
The Bank's Strategy and Role in the Industrial and Financial Sectors
31.        Sector Strategy.  The Bank's strategy in the industrial sector calls
for assisting the Government in its attempt to diversify Indonesia's indus-
trial base and position the economy for steady, broad-based growth in the
future. This policy-based strategy is focused on three interrelated areas:
(a) macroeconomic and trade policy; (b) industrial subsector support; and
(c) financial sector development. I-n the area of trade policy, the Bank is
working closely with the Government in mounting a program to stimulate non-
traditional exports. Bank collaboration in trade policy is supported by its
economic and sector work program and by Bank technical assistance on a range
of export activities which are expected to lead to one or perhaps a series of
export projects. Policy dialogue with the Government on trade issues has also
focussed, inter alia, on a program of tariff reform. In that context, the
Bank has been instrumental in arranging for analytical work, designed to
update the 1975 analysis of effective protection and domestic resource cost.
This effort would lay the basis for a first general round of tariff cuts and
reductions in import restrictions. In the area of industrial subsector work,
the major objective is to formulate strategies and policies for developing key
subsectors. The subsectoral approach allows the Bank to address such policy
issues as incentives (including tariffs), regulation, and evaluation of public
investment projects, which illustrate the main themes of our industrial policy



- 13 -
dialogue. This focus is important because the Government would like to have a
very clear understanding of the actual costs of the current policies, the
potential dislocation to various parts of industry which may accompany policy
change, and mechanisms to ease the adjustment process before undertaking broad
reforms. S5'-sector studies on textiles, pulp and paper, and engineering goods
are completed or in progress, and initiatives are underway for similar studies
of the electronics industry, wood processing, and cement. Some of these
studies may eventually lead to projects proposed for Bank financing.
32.       In the area of financial sector development, the Bank intends to
support the recent financial policy reform with an expanded program of techni-
cal and financial assistance to improve the capacity of the state banks to
operate efficiently in the new environment and to strengthen other financial
institutions, particularly at the longer end of the market. Preliminary work
would focus on evaluating the institutional and operational policy issues
confronting the banking system in trying to adjust to the new policy environ-
ment. A financial sector study to be undertaken in late 1984, would pay
specific attention, inter alia, to setting long-term interest rates and to
financial resource mobilization by the banking system. The extensive tech-
nical and financial assistance recently included under the Fifth BAPINDO
Project (Loan No. 2277-IND), and the institution-building recommended under
the proposed SEDP III project to support SSE lending, are part of this
development strategy.
33.       The Bank Group's Past Involvement in Industry and Finance.  To date,
the Bank Group has provided a total of $796.4 million to the Indonesian indus-
trial and SSE sectors, comprising seven DFC loans to BAPINDO (US$365.9 mil-
lion) and the Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (US$18 mil-
lion), two loans for small enterprise development (US$146 million), one for
rural credit (US$30 million), one loan for industrial estates (US$16.5 mil-
lion) and three loans for fertilizer production (US$220 million). In the SSE
sector, an IDA credit of US$40 million was approved in FY78 for the first
Small Enterprise Development Project (SEDP I, Credit 785-IND) to provide,
through BI's KIK/KMKP program, credit assistance to SSEs in Central Java, East
Java and West Sumatra. Technical assistance provided under SEDP I focused on
upgrading the operational skills of loan officers and strengthening the
capacity of BI and the handling banks to administer the program. Following
the generally satisfactory implementation of SEDP I, the project was extended
nationwide in FY81 with a loan of US$106 million for the Second Small
Enterprise Development Project (SEDP II, Loan 2011-IND), to continue financial
and technical assistance to the KIK/KMYP program and strengthen industrial
extension services under the Department of Industry.
34.       The credit components of SEDP I and II have been disbursed on
schedule, and ex-post surveys have indicated that, on the whole, the
beneficiaries have used the credits for productive purposes. The main find-
ings of the SEDP I survey showed that nearly 60% of the sampled KIK/KMKP loan
recipients have hired from one to five additional workers, with the remaining
40% maintaining their existing labor force, and that about 70% of the firms
more than doubled their output as a result of expanded capacity utilization
made possible by the KIK/KMKP credit received. The key findings of the
SEDP II survey were that for each Rp 1,000 of credit obtained under the



- 14 --
program, the value of output increased by an average of Rp 1,890; employment
(expressed in incremental wages earned per day) increased by an average of
Rp 290. Nonetheless, the degree of success in some institution-building areas
of the projects has not been as great as anticipated at the time of the
appraisals and additional work is needed to address remaining problems
affecting the program. The problems of internal coordination in BI and overall
program management remain, and further efforts are necessary to strengthen
BI's management information system and the SEDP training programs. The
Ministry of Industry's Directorate General of Simall Industry has also been
very slow in utilizing the US$6.0 million SSE technical support services
component allocated under SEDP II. The problem of arrears deserves special
attention. By the best estimates, arrears of principal and interest on
KIK/KMKP loans have increased from 11% of outstanding portfolio in 1980 to 25%
as of year-end 1983. The highest arrears were recorded by BRI, rising from
12% in 1980 to 35% as of December 31, 1983. The proposed SEDP III is designed
to assist BI and the handling banks in strengthening the administration of the
KIK/KMKP program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.        The project was prepared by BI, in constultation with the Bank.  The
project was appraised in September 1983. Negotiations were held in Washing-
ton, from April 3 to April 12, 1984; the GOI delegation was led by
Mr. J. Soedradjad Djiwandono from the Bureau of Monetary Affairs and Public
Finance of the National Development Planning Agency. A Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 4956-IND) is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
36.       Project Objectives.  The rapid build-up of financial resources gen-
erated by oil revenues beginning in the mid-1970s has permitted the expansion
of the KIK/KMKP credit program, which with the Bank Group's assistance has
become the main source of institutional finance for SSEs in virtually all
economic sectors. GOI considers this program a high priority and is committed
to its continued implementation in the next: Five-Year Plan period (1984/85-
88/89). With increasing budgetary constraints, however, the fiscal resources
available for this priority program have become more scarce and GOI has
requested the Bank for a third SEDP loan to enable it to continue without
interruption the KIK/KMKP lending program and the institution-building efforts
initiated under SEDP I and II. In particular, the provision of working
capital finance would enable SSEs to utilize mores fully their existing capa-
city (much of which has been idle during the recient recession). The
institution-building objectives of this project -would improve project manage-
ment and monitoring by BI and help the handling banks to continue to improve
their project appraisal and supervision capabilities as well as to gradually
accept more of the financial and institutional riesponsibilities for KIK/KMKP
lending. Moreover, under the proposed project, special attention will be
given to improving the management and operations of BRI.



- 15 -
37.       Project Description.  The proposed project includes:  (a) a credit
component to help finance the nationwide KIK/KMKP program for two years (from
mid-1984 to mid-1986); (b) a technical assistance component designed to:
(i) strengthen BI and handling banks in their administration, implementation
and monitoring of the KIK/KMKP lending program; (ii) improve the operational
efficiency of BRI, the largest state bank and the biggest participant in the
KIK/KMKP program; and (iii) study the various aspects of the SSE sector, with
a view to improving the coordination of technical support services to this
sector.
38.       The KIK/KMKP Program.  The specific objectives of the KIK/KMKP
program are the creation of employment, geographic dispersion of investment,
development of entrepreneurship, local market expansion and the general
promotion of productive economic activities by indigenous entrepreneurs. BI
administers the KIK/KMKP program through a refinance mechanism and is also
responsible for policy direction and program monitoring. State commercial
banks, national and regional development banks and private national banks,
collectively known as "handling banks," participate in this program and are
responsible for appraising and supervising KIK/KMKP loans. The five state
banks account for 86% of the amount of outstanding KIK/KMKP loans. Under SEDP
II, BI refinanced up to 100% of KIK and 75% of KMKP loan amounts extended by
handling banks. The Bank loan was used by BI for refinancing 20% of KIK
subloan amounts. BI charged these banks an average interest rate of 4.3% for
the combined KIK refinancing and 4% for KMKP refinancing. The banks, in turn,
charged their subborrowers 10.5% and 12.0% p.a. interest for KIK and KMKP,
respectively. Borrowers may obtain up to Rp 15 million under each type of
credit. All KIK/KMKP loans made by handling banks carry an automatic 75%
credit guarantee from the Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation, P.T.
Asuransi Kredit Indonesia (ASKRINDO); the premium paid to ASKRINDO is shared
between BI and the handling bank.
39.       Following a period of rapid expansion in 1974-81, during which KIK
lending grew at 73% p.a. to Rp 172 billion in 1981, and KM4KP lending increased
by 94% p.a. to Rp 371 billion, KIK/KMKP lending in 1982 began to slow down and
continued to decelerate throughout 1983. KIK loan approvals amounted to only
Rp 144 billion in 1982 and Rp 86 billion in 1983; KMKP loan approvals totalled
Rp 365 billion in 1982 and Rp 231 billion in 1983. The reasons for this
decline are varied. First, the recession which has affected the economy over
the last two years adversely affected demand for KIK/KMKP loans. Second, in
some specific SSE sectors, there have been some indications of "saturation."
Third, some of the handling banks had by 1981 reached an optimum level of
operation, given their staff and other resources. Finally, the growing
arrears may have caused the handling banks to take a more cautious approach to
KIK/KMKP lending.
40.       Credit Component of the Proposed Project.  The project would finance
all KIK and KMKP lending by the five state commercial banks, selected private
commercial banks, BAPINDO and the regional development banks for two years.
During this period, KIK/KMKP loan approvals are expected to increase gradually
at nominal rates of 13.5% p.a., or about 2.5% p.a. in real terms; this fairly
conservative projection appears reasonable in light of the current domestic
recession, from which the Indonesian economy is expected to recover over the



- 16 -
course of the next year or so.  Based on this assumption, total funding
required for KIK/KMKP lending over the two-year project implementation period
would be about Rp 776 billion (US$776 million), comprising KIK funding of
Rp 226 billion (US$226 million) and 'KMKP funding of Rp 550 billion (US$550
million). Sir-ce the period of rapid expansion in KIK/KMKP lending seems to be
over, the goal of credit expansion under the program would be de-emphasized in
favor of credit consolidation and efforts directed toward improving the
quality of the loan portfolio. To reflect this policy objective, and the
actions planned by BI and the handling banks over the next two years to
achieve it, BI's KIK/KG4KP Policy and Strategy Statement has been recently
revised and was reviewed by the Bank at negotiations.
41.       Under the proposed project, the Bank has agreed for the first time
to finance permanent working capital (KMKP) subloans out of the loan proceeds,
in view of the high demand for working capital and to enable SSEs to utilize
existing capacity fully in the wake of the recession. However, certain
procedural changes in the appraisal, disbursement and amortization of KMKP
subloans would need to be introduced to enable the Bank and BI to assess the
repayment performance on those subloans and help ensure that they are used for
productive purposes. These include improved appraisal procedures to establish
the creditworthiness of the client and assess his working capital needs,
tightened regulations regarding documentation to accompany disbursement
requests to handling banks, and disbursement directly to suppliers for amounts
over Rp 1.5 million. As a condition of eff'ectiveness of the proposed loan, BI
would issue a circular to handling banks reflecting and enforcing these
changes (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.12 of the
draft BI Project Agreement). In addition, BI would conduct a review of the
utilization of KMKP subloans and the experience in utilizing the new
appraisal, disbursement and amortization procedures, which would be completed
and submitted to the Bank by September 30, 1985 (Section 2.09(b) of the draft
BI Project Agreement). The Bank and BI would use this review to determine
whether the revised KMKP lending procedures are achieving effectively the
objectives of ensuring accountability, in the use of funds and better
accounting for loan collection, and to propose a!lternative procedures if
necessary.
42.       To improve the quality of the loan portfolio, a number of measures
would be implemented under the project. First, 3I has conducted an in-depth
review of the KIK/KMKP loan portfolios in the 10 worst performing branches of
each of the 5 state banks with a view to determining the causes of arrears.
Second, BI has formulated and adopted an Action Program based on the above
review for dealing with the arrears problems of handling banks. This Action
Program provides for assistance to the handling banks in supervision and loan
collection, establishment of performance standards, monitoring systems for
collection and procedures for rehabilitating the worst performing branches
under the SEDP prograra. The scope and timing of the Action Program were
agreed upon at negotiations (Section 2.11 of the draft BI Project Agree-
ment). In addition, one of BI's advisors would review BI's management
information system (para. 49 below) so that needed improvements, including the
installation of an adequate arrears collection data system in BI and the
handling banks, could be introduced by March 31, 1985 (Sections 2.13 and 2.14
of the draft BI Project Agreement). Finally, to improve the operation and



- 17 -
strengthen the financial viability of ASKRINDO so that it can play its role
more effectively in mitigating the risks associated with KIK/MKThP, the
Government has agreed to undertake a review of ASKRINDO's operations, finan--
cial structure, management and development strategy (Section 3.02(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement). The basic objectives of the review are: (a) to iden-
tify measures which would lead to making ASKRINDO a self-sustaining and
efficient credit insurance institution; and (b) to improve tHe effectiveness
of ASKRINDO in terms of providing adequate incentives to both ASKRINDO aiLd
banks to improve loan collections. Based on the findings of the reviaw (which
is to be completed by November 1984), the Government, by December 31, 1984,
will prepare and thereafter implement an action program, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the changes which would need to be introduced in ASKRINDO (Section
3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
43.       Strengthening KIK/KMKP Management and Organization.  BI administers
KIK/KMKP operations nationwide at two levels. At BI's head office, the
Cooperative and Small Credit Department is responsible for overall KIK/KMXP
administration and monitoring. At the regional level, BI's regional offices
perform some minor administrative functions; the Regional Project Management
Units, special units in BI's regional offices, were set up exclusively to
focus on providing appropriate technical assistance and support to the
handling banks in their KIK/KMKP lending. The Cooperative and Small Credit
Department falls under the responsibility of the BI Managing Director for
credit operations and is organized into four divisions, two of which deal with
the KIK/KMKP program: the KIK/KMKP Division and the Small Enterprise Develop-
ment Division, which is also known as the Central Project Management Unit.
Over time, there has developed considerable overlap in the functions of these
two divisions. To address this problem, BI has recently focussed on rational-
izing and clarifying the activities of these two divisions. BI has also
revised the terms of reference of the Central Project Management Unit, taking
into account its new definition of responsibilities and the changing emphasis
of the KIK/KMKP program.
44.       Recent and planned changes in top management staffing and functions
should also strengthen program management at the head office. The recent
appointment of an experienced Managing Director should have an immediate posi-
tive impact. Furthermore, a new General Manager has recently been appointed
to head the Cooperative and Small Credit Department and to effectively become
the Project Manager for SEDP III. Day-to-day management of the project has
become the chief responsibility of the Cooperative and Small Credit Depart-
ment's Deputy General Manager, who has sufficient authority to deal with both
of the Department's divisions, the project advisors and the handling banks.
Finally, during SEDP III, BI will recruit and maintain suitable advisors for
the Department and will appoint a sufficient number of qualified BI staff to
work as counterparts to these advisors. The total cost of these advisors
during the project period is estimated to be US$2.3 million. Rotation of the
counterpart staff would be minimized so that counterparts would work at least
two years with the advisors in order to accomplish effective transfer of
knowledge and the eventual phasing out of consultant assistance.
45.       Program Management at the Regional Level.  Regional Project Manage-
ment Units operated under SEDP I and II as regional focal points for expanding



- 18 -
KIK/KMKP lending, providing on-the-job training for loan officers of the local
handling bank branches and, to some extent, monitoring KIK/KMKP lending.
Regional Project Management Units are now established in 13 regions which
account for over 80% of KIK/KMKP lending. Given the specialized experience
required, these units are largely staffed by consultants. The r gional units'
consultant requirements under the project amount to about US$13.j million.
Under SEDP III, as consolidation of the KIK/KMKP program and improvement of
portfolio quality become major objectives, the role of the regional units will
shift from promoting program expansion to helping the handling banks
consolidate and improve their KIK/KMKP portfolios. BI has revised the terms
of reference for the regional units to reflect these changes.
46.       BRI Upgrading.  In terms of its operations (about 5.7 million loans
and 4.0 million deposit accounts, 33,000 staff and 3,900 branches and sub-
branches), BRI is the largest and most important financial intermediary
catering to the needs of the SSE and rural sectors. As of December 31, 1983,
BRI's total assets were US$3.1 billion and loans outstanding US$2.3 billion;
about 70% of lending is for government-supported programs on which interest
rates are fixed and for which BRI receives low-cost funds from BI and the
Government. The remaining 30% is commerciaL lending, at market rates,
financed from its own deposit resources. The average size loan is about
US$350 with over 80% of loans below US$100; similarly, over 95% of deposit
accounts are less than US$40 each. Between 1978 and 1983, assets increased by
about 30% p.a., while staff grew at 4% p.a. Administrative expenses are high
because of the large number of small loans and deposits, widespread network
and inefficiencies in the operating systems and procedures. Arrears are also
high, about 20% of loans outstanding, resulLing mainly from the high risk
nature of BRI's loans.
47.       A preliminary diagnostic analysis of BRI's operations was recently
undertaken to identify institutional changes which could improve efficiency
under the presently defined mandate of BRI. This established a need for
improvements, complementing the ongoing efforts, in the areas of: head office
organization, planning and budgetting, accoxnting and credit procedures, funds
mobilization, customer services and personnel management. To further refine
and formulate these recommendations, BRI would enter into a technical assis-
tance contract with a commercial bank, appropriately suited for the Indonesian
environment, which would provide a team of experts and on-the-job training to
BRI staff. Detailed terms of reference were discussed and agreed upon at
negotiations. The total assistance is estimated to be about 120 man-months of
specialist services and 50 man-months of on-the-job training at a cost of
US$1.75 million, including about $250,000 of related equipment and
materials. During negotiations, agreement was reached that BRI would:
(a) ensure that the team of consultants is employed by March 31, 1985 (Section
2.02 of the draft BRI Project Agreement); (b) with the help of the
consultants, carry out an evaluation of its organization and operations and
furnish the Bank with the resulting recommendations for institutional and
operational changes by December 31, 1985 (Section 2.08 (a) of the draft BRI
Project Agreement); (c) thereafter, promptly prepare and implement a plan of
action for carrying out these recommendations (Section 2.08 (b) of the draft
BRI Project Agreement); and (d) complete, by December 31, 1984, a review of
all external/internal regulations, procedures, and reporting requirements for



- 19 -
its various lending programs and make recommendations to the Government and BI
on procedural and report standardization, in particular for programs having
similar purposes but different procedures (Section 2.09 of the draft BRI
Project Agreement).
48.       Training of Handling Bank Loan Officers.  The lack of trained and
experienced loan officers has been recognized as a major constraint to the
expansion of small credit programs in Indonesia. Therefore, under SEDP I and
II the main training objective has been to prepare loan officers in adequate
numbers to handle term lending operations within the context of the KIK/KMKP
program. Under SEDP I, classroom training was provided entirely by BI's
Institute for the Development of Banking in Indonesia, but due to the Insti-
tute's capacity limitations, attempts were made under SEDP II to decentralize
training towards handling banks' own training institutes or in-house facili-
ties and towards the regional level institutes. To speed up the decentraliza-
tion of training under SEDP III, the Institute would be given a more active
role in the process, particularly in developing course materials for handling
bank trainers, in training trainers, setting annual training targets, and
evaluating training results. The Institute has agreed to undertake an
evaluation of its training courses under SEDP II and would provide a report of
its findings to the Bank by December 31, 1984. A training plan was presented
to the Bank for discussion during negotiations and an understanding was
reached on the scope and timing of its implementation. Total training costs
under the project (including consultants, tuition, transportion and lodging)
amount to about US$9.6 million. BI has recently formulated a new cost-sharing
policy with the handling banks such that 65% of the tuition, transportation
and lodging costs of the training provided to the banks by BI are covered by
the handling banks, compared to only 50% of transportation and lodging costs
under SEDP II. This will both help to reduce BI's subsidy of training courses
and strengthen the mechanism for determining the courses found useful by the
handling banks (i.e., those for which the handling banks are willing to
shoulder a substantial part of the costs).
49.       Program Monitoring and Guidance.  BI's present reporting/monitoring
system for KIK/KMKP introduced in April 1983, appears to suffer from a number
af weaknesses: (a) the handling banks are reported to be having difficulties
in filling out the new forms; (b) the time lags in compiling and analyzing
data continue to be long; and (c) the scope and format of data analysis seem
to be unsatisfactory for effective program monitoring and evaluation of the
performance of the KIK/KMKP program. Therefore, BI has agreed to carry out a
Management Information System review based on the data requirements of BI's
management and those of the Bank. This review would be completed by
October 31, 1984, so that a satisfactory operating Management Information
System is established by March 31, 1985 (Section 2.13 of the draft BI Project
Agreement).
50.       Studies and Surveys.  The following studies are proposed under
SEDP III to continue efforts to widen the data base on the SSE sector:
(a) baseline surveys, which collect and analyze regional information on the
SSE sector and SSE policies, will continue to be undertaken by independent
consultants for up to six of the more remote, poorly documented regions of
Indonesia; (b) a study of the range and effectiveness of government SSE



- 20 -
promotion and technical assistance policies and programs (para. 25); and
(c) an ongoing study of the actual economic impact of the KIK/KMKP program on
SSEs in various subsectors. The estimated cost for the studies and surveys to
be carried out under the project amounts to about US$0.7 million. Consultants
and their te-ms of reference would be subject to the prior approval of the
Bank (Section 2.03(i) of draft BI Project Agreement). Drafts of all studies
and surveys will be submitted to the Bank in English for comment before
finalization.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
51.       Total project costs are estimated at US$804.16 million equivalent,
including a foreign exchange cost of US$321.12 million, or 40% of the total.
The estimated total cost of the tecinical assistance component of the project
is US$27.65 million, including US$10.61 miLllion in foreign exchange, which
covers the cost of BI and BRI consultants to be engaged, studies, training,
and about $750,000 for equipment and materials related to technical assist-
ance. The cost of the KIK/KMKP component is estimated at US$776 million
equivalent, of which US$310 million equivalent (40%) represents foreign
exchange costs.
52.       The KIK/KMKP costs would be shared respectively by BI, the Bank and
the handling banks on a 55:25:20 ratio. Given this proposed blending formula,
and assuming resource costs of 3% for BI funds, 10.1% for Bank funds and 12%
for handling bank funds, the average cost of KIK/KMKP loanable funds amounts
to about 6.7% p.a.; an additional risk premium of 0.8% p.a. brings the total
cost of KIK/KMKP resources to 7.5% p.a. for the handling banks. BI and the
handling banks consider a 6% p.a. spread sufficient to cover the administra-
tive costs of KIK/KMKP lending and to provide an adequate profit margin, given
the degree of risk coverage currently provided by ASKRINDO, bringing the total
to 13.5% (7.5% and 6.0%). As the Government is reluctant to increase the 12%
interest rate on KIK/KMKP loans at this time, it has agreed to provide an
explicit budget subsidy, initially of 1.5% p.a., to the handling banks in
order to maintain their incentive for participat:ion in the KIK/KMKP program
(para. 30). It is estimated that this subsidy would require about $11 million
annually for the first two years of the project. During negotiations, the
Bank and the Government reached agreement on: (a) the level and mechanism for
operation of the budget subsidy to the handling banks; and (b) procedures for
undertaking a joint GOT/BI annual review (the first of which would be
completed by March 31, 1985) of the appropriateness of the KIK/KMKP lending
rate and the level of subsidy provided to the handling banks, taking into
account changing market conditions and the administrative costs of handling
banks as well as the capacity of KIK/KMKP borrowers to bear nearer-to-market
interest rates (Sections 3.01 (b) and 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement and
Section 2.09 (a) of the draft BI Project Agreement).
Features of the Proposed Loan
53.       Relending Arrangements and Terms.  A Bank loan of US$204.65 million
(including the front-end fee of US$0.51 million) is proposed to be made to the
Government of Indonesia on standard country terms, i.e., 20 years maturity
including a five-year grace period. The Government would relend the proceeds



- 21 -
of the Bank loan, including the corresponding front-end fee, to the main exe-
cuting agencies: US$194.51 million for the credit component and US$8.39 mil-
lion for the technical assistance component (central and regional level con-
sultants, handling bank and BI staff training and studies/surveys) to BI; and
US$1.75 million for technical assistance and related equipment to BRI. The
funds to BRI are to bear an interest rate of 3% p.a. The Government would
relend the loan proceeds to BI at a fixed interest rate which would be the
same as the Bank rate prevailing at the time of loan signing and thus would
bear the risk of any possible interest rate fluctuation on the Bank loan.  The
front-end fee will be capitalized and passed on to BI and BRI on a pro-rata
basis.  BI would relend to the handling banks US$194 million of the loan
proceeds at the same fixed interest rate as noted above, covering no more than
25% of KIK/KMKP subloans made by those banks. As the KIK/KMKP subloans made
by the handling banks have considerably shorter maturities (four years for KIK
and two years for KMKP, on average) than the Bank loan, the second generation
funds created by repayment of the subloans by the handling banks to BI in
advance of payments due to the Bank, would remain with BI for further KIK/KMKP
lending (Section 2.10 of the draft BI Project Agreement). The interest rate
and other obligations due to the Government from BI and BRI would be specified
in two separate Subsidiary Loan Agreements acceptable to the Bank. The
signing of these agreements would be a condition of effectiveness of the pro-
posed loan (Section 6.01(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on the entire Bank loan.
54.       Procurement.  Procurement under the KIK/KMKP subloans would be made
on the basis of BI's standard procurement procedures, which emphasize procure-
ment at competitive prices. Under an established BI directive for KIK/KMKP
loans, the choice of supplier is determined jointly by the handling bank and
the borrower, taking into account such factors as cost, quality and service.
Whenever possible, the borrower is requested to submit three price quotations
to help ensure that the goods and services financed through KIK/KMKP loans are
procured at competitive prices. BI monitors banks' procurement practices
periodically to ensure that its regulations are adhered to. These procedures
have been examined and found to be satisfactory to the Bank and have been fol-
lowed under previous Bank loans. Procurement of consultant services financed
by the Bank loan proceeds would be done in accordance with the Bank's "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the Bank as an
Executing Agency." Terms of reference for studies/surveys or consultants and
the appointment of consultants financed by the Bank under the project, would
be subject to prior Bank approval. For all other consultants required under
the project, BI will consult with the Bank to ensure that the consultants
hired have suitable qualifications and experience. Procurement of training
equipment and materials under the project would be based on a list of items
subject to the Bank's prior approval. Normal government local procurement
procedures would be applied, since items to be procured are many and small in
value and cannot be grouped in sufficiently large quantities to attract inter-
national bidders. These procedures provide for adequate competition and are
acceptable to the Bank.
55.       Disbursement.  The proposed Bank loan of US$204.65 million (includ-
ing the front-end fee) represents 64% of the total estimated foreign exchange
cost of the project of US$321.12 million. For the portion of the Bank loan



- 22 -
used for KIK/KMKP financing, disbursements would be made by the Bank covering
up to 25% of either KIK or KMKP subloan amounts, with the balance being
financed by BI (55%) and the handling bank (20%). For the technical assi-
stance and training portion of the Bank loan admainistered by BI (US$8.39 mil-
lion), and by BRI (US$1.75 million), disbursements would be mad- against:
(a) 100% of total expenditures for project consultants; and (b) 100% of
foreign expenditures for staff training. For materials and equipment related
to the technical assistance and training, disbursements would be made
against: (a) 100% of the foreign cost of directly imported items; (b) 95% of
the ex-factory cost of locally produced items; and (c) 65% of expenditures for
other items procured locally. Withdrawal applications for both the credit and
technical assistance components of the prcject would be supported by state-
ments of expenditure, prepared by BI and BRI, respectively, and audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Documentation for
the statements of expenditure would be retained by the project authorities for
review by the Bank during regular supervision. Disbursements are expected to
be completed by December 31, 1987. The disbursement projections are based on
experience under the credit and technical assistance components of the two
previous projects.
56.       Accounts and Audits.  BI and the handling banks have been somewhat
slow in complying with the audit requirements under SEDP II. This is due both
to delays in preparing financial statements, and, in particular, to delays in
completing the audits by the Agency for Finance and Development Control (Badan
Pengawasan Keuangan dan Pembangunan or BPKP) due to organizational and staff-
ing weaknesses in BPKP.  These problems are being addressed, inter alia, by
the Bank under a separate project (Credit 869-IND), and there is reason to
believe that over time BPKP's performance would improve. To reflect the time
required to complete audits under the Government system and streamline audit
requirements as far as possible, audit requirements under SEDP III would be as
follows.  First, BI and BRI would submit their annual audited accounts to the
Bank (in English) no later than nine months after the end of their fiscal
year. Second, since there are over 50 handling banks and BI already has the
responsibility of reviewing the audit reports on all financial institutions,
BI would submit to the Bank on an annual basis, no later than 12 months after
the end of the fiscal year, a statement indicating the handling bank audit
reports received, the number that have been qualified by the auditor, the
nature of the qualifications and the remedial action to be taken. Third,
audit reports on handling banks wou:Ld cont'ain a special section giving details
of the KIK/KMKP lending operations and BI would submit to the Bank for review,
no later than 12 months after the end of the fiscal year, this special section
of each handling bank's audit report.  Fourth, in line with standard require-
ments of the Bank, statements of expenditure periodically prepared by BI for
reimbursement under the proposed loan wou'Ld be subject to an external audit by
BPKP, or other auditors acceptable to the Bank, as an integral part of the
regular audit report on BI's annual accounts (Sections 3.02, 3.03, and 3.04 of
the draft BI Project Agreement and Section 3.02 of the draft BRI Project
Agreement).



- 23 -
Project Benefits and Risks
57.       Benefits.  The proposed SEDP III project will not only provide
direct financial assistance to SSEs but will also address the technical assis-
tance needs of BI and the handling banks with a view toward mal- ng them more
effective and efficient in channelling development finance to small enter-
prises. The Bank loan would increase the resources available for SSE lend-
ing. It is expected that the US$226 million projected for KIK lending would
finance about 33,000 loans over the two-year commitment period, while the
US$550 million projected for KMKP lending would finance about 140,700 loans;
the average size of KIK loans would be about US$7,000 while that of KMKP loans
would be about US$4,000. Based on surveys demonstrating the positive economic
impact of subprojects financed under SEDP I and II, it is expected that these
benefits would continue to accrue under SEDP III.
58.       In addition to providing finance to SSEs, the project will play an
important role in improving the capabilities of the financial institutions
participating: BI, the handling banks and particularly BRI. While the Bank
has had a longstanding and satisfactory relationship with BI, organizational
and procedural changes are being introduced under the project which, together
with additional staff training, should enable BI to assume a more dynamic
institutional evaluation role, thereby helping to upgrade more effectively the
KIK/KMKP operations of the handling banks. The technical assistance component
of the project specifically designed for BRI would allow BRI to identify its
most critical administrative and financial problems so that appropriate
actions to deal with them may be developed. The general technical assistance
(especially training) to be provided to handling banks in the context of the
project is expected to improve their project appraisal and supervision skills
and to increase their awareness of the financial and nonfinancial problems of
SSE borrowers. In accordance with the emphasis on consolidation and improving
the management of the KIK/KMKP program, particular attention would be given to
the problems of portfolio management, project supervision, and loan
collection.
59.       Risks.  The major risks to the project are that:  (a) BI would not
strengthen its management of the KIK/KMKP program and adopt a more aggressive
role in evaluating and helping to upgrade the capabilities of the handling
banks with regard to appraising and supervising KIK/KMKP loans; (b) increasing
levels of arrears, coupled with limited spreads and increased resource contri-
bution requirements, may make KIK/KMKP financing unattractive to the handling
banks; (c) disbursements under the project may not take place as rapidly as
expected due to a slower recovery in the economy than currently projected and
a lack of program promotion by the handling banks due to reason (b) above; and
(d) reimbursement of KMKP loans will be initiated under the proposed project,
and these types of loans are somewhat more vulnerable than fixed asset loans
to possible diversion to purposes other than those for which they are granted.
60.       With respect to BI's management and role in the project, Bank
Indonesia's senior management is aware that considerable strengthening of the
management of the KIK/KMKP program is required. Some actions have already
been taken (appointment of new General Manager) and BI has also taken steps to
improve the relationship of the Central Project Management Unit and KIK/KMKP



- 24 -
divisions. Furthermore, BI will appoint counterpart staff to work closely
with the advisors to its Cooperative and Small Credit Department, with a view
to gradually reducing the number of advisors required. This aspect of the
project, however, would continue to require close supervision during imple-
mentation.
61.       Regarding the growing seriousness of KIK/KMKP arrears, during nego-
tiations BI and the Bank agreed upon an Action Program for dealing with the
handling banks' arrears problems. In addition, the Regional Project Manage-
ment Units are to work with the handling banks to upgrade their project super-
vision so as to provide early warning of projects going into arrears, as it is
more effective to rehabilitate projects with new arrears than longstanding
problem projects with entrenched repayment difficulties. The question of pro-
viding the handling banks with spreads adequate to ensure their active partic-
ipation in KIK/KMKP lending has been addressed by the Government's agreement
to provide an explicit subsidy to the handling banks and to annually review
the appropriateness of the KIK/KMKP lending rate. With regard to disburse-
ments under the project, BI's demand projections have been based on conserva-
tive growth assumptions and it is likely that the investment climate even for
SSE borrowers will be more favorable than projected. Finally, with respect to
KMKP financing, BI will issue a circular (prior to loan effectiveness) estab-
lishing new procedures for the appraisal, disbursement and amortization of
KMKP loans.  In order to be certain that t'hese new KMKP lending procedures are
sufficient to ensure that Bank resources are being used effectively, BI will
undertake a post-disbursement review of KMKP lending which will be completed
by September 30, 1985.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between. the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and BI, the draft Project
Agreement between the Bank and BRI, and the report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The following are special
conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan: (a) the execution of satis-
factory subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and BI and BRI; and
(b) the issuance by BI of a circular to handling banks reflecting and
enforcing certain procedural changes in the appraisal, disbursement and amort-
ization of KMKP loans. Other special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan. would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 25 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I 'ecommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
May 4, 1984
Washington, D.C.



- 26-                                              ANNEX I
Psge 1 of 5 pages
- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SLElT
INmois IA                            REfERENCE SOUPS (WIGHTED AVERAGES) Is
MOST                     (MOST RECtNT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT           MIDDLE INCQEt           MIDDLE INCOME
1960/-     1970-b ESTIMALT&b         ASIA & PACIFIC       LAT. AMERICA 6 CAi2D
ARM (TIIAND SQ . no
TOTAL                             1919.3      1919.3      1919.3
AGRICULTURAL                       266.0       307.1       317.3
GNP PER CAPITA (U8$)                   90.0       150.0       530.0             1028.6                  2088.2
EnECRY  CONUMTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     129.0       143.0       266.0              792.8                  1407.6
PDPULATION AD VIEAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  94680.0   116201.0   149451.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)       14.6        17.1        20.6               32.9                    65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                           215.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (KILL)                             399.5
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                             2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       49.3        60.5        76.2              260.7                    35.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND           355.9       378.4       461.2             1696.5                    93.2
POPULATION AGE STRL.BOTURE (1)
0-14 YRS                         40.7        44.0        39.8               39.4                    40.1
15-64 YRS                         56.2        53.4        57.1               57.2                    55.8
65 AND ABOVE                       3.1         2.5         3.1                3.3                     4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                              2.1         2.0         2.3                2.3                     2.3
URBAN                              3.7         3.6         4.u                3.9                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)        45.8        40.7        34.6               31.3                    31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)        22.5        17.2        13.1                9.6                     8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.8         2.7         2.2                2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)           ..       181.1      3051.0
USERS (2 OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..         0.2        36.0              46.6
POOD AND NTITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       93.0       102.0       122.0             125.2                    113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)      86.0        94.0       110.0              114.2                   111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          38.0        42.0        49.0              57.9                     67.9
OF WHICH ANDmAL AND PULSE         6.0         6.0         7.0/c             14.1                    34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE         22.9        16.9        13.7                7.6                     5.3
HCALTB
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       41.2        47.3        53.5               60.2                    64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)      149.9       120.9       105.0              68.1                     62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (2POP)
TOTAL                               ..         3.0        23.0               37.1                    64.8
URBAN                                         10.0        41.0               54.8                    77.8
RURAL                               ..         1.0        18.0               26.4                    44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               . .       15.0        23.0               41.4                    54.6
URBAN                               ..        19.0        20.0              47.5                     69.8
RURAL                                         14.0        24.0               33.4                    29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         46780.0    26510.0    11530.0               7771.9                  1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           4510.0/f   7680.0       2300.0             2462.6                  1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1360.0      1650.0      1610.0/d           1047.2                   477.0
URBAN                            250.0          ..       700.073            651.L                   667.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      3160.07i           2591.9                  1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        22.4/e             27.0                    27.2
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.4         4.8
URBAN                              4.9         5.3
RURAL                              4.3         4.7          ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                           1.5
URBAN                               ..         1.6
RURAL                                          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                                                    ..                 ..
_____ - - -_____ -- __-  ---- - - __                          __               ________--___________



27-                                                    ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA                - SOCIAL INDICATUSM DATA   SDEET
INDONSIA                                IEWIC  GROUPS (WEIGHTED AvEAGES) la
ItDt                       (HDST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb             RECtNT  /b        mnDDLe INCOME              MIDDLE TicomE
_  1960-        _ ioLb  ESTIMATE       ASIA 4 PACtFIC         LAT. AMEKICA 6 CARIB
IBCTIOU
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT MATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     71.0        77.0         98.0               101.2                     105.0
KALE                     86.0        83.0        104.0               106.0                      106.3
FEMALE                   58.0         71.0        91.0                97.5                      103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      6.0        15.0         28.0                44.9                      40.0
MALE                     10.0         20.0        33.0                50.0                       38.6
FEMALE                    3.0         10.0        22.0                44.6                       41.2
VOCATIONAL (t OF SVCONDAIRY)           20.4        22.1         15.5                18.5                       34. U
PUPIL-TEAClitR RATIO
PRIMARY                              39.0        29.0         34.0                32.7                       30.7
SECONDAHLY                           14.0        13.0         16.0                23.4                       16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)                39.0         56.6        62.O0               72.9                       79.5
COSUWPTIOU
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             1.1         2.1           1                  9.7                       45.6
RADIO RECEGVERSITROUSAND POP            7.2        21.9         42.4               113.7                     228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               0.1         0.8          9.6                50.1                      108.3
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               11.0          ..         17.7/d              54.0                       64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         2.8          ..          0.67                3.4                        2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           34791.0     41090.0      53604.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    27.8         30.9         29.2                33.6                      24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                75.0        66.0         55.0                50.9                       31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   8.0         10.0         15.0                19.2                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.7        35.4         35.9                38.6                       31.3
MALE                                 54.2        49.5         51.1                50.7                      49.8
FEMALE                              20.0         21.6         20.8                26.6                      14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENODENCY KATIO              1.2          1.3         1.2                 1.1                        1.4
INICm  DlSTUBTIOU
PERCENT UF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVES BY
HiGdES'r 57 OF LiOUSEHOLUS             ..          ..         23.5/d              22.2
RiGUNEST 20I UF HOUSEHOLOS             ..          ..         49.47d              48.0
LUWEST 20h OF LIOUSESiOLDS             ..           ..         6.67i               6.4
LOWEST 407 OF dLOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..        14.47               15.5
PO0 TAT CS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       136.O               194.5                     289.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..       112.0J              155.0                     184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY LNCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       119.O/g             178.0                      519.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..        90                  64.8                     372.1
ESTIMATEO POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        28.0 j              24.4
RURAL                                  ..           ..        51.0j               4t.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for  each indicator are populationavighted artthmetic mane.  Coverage of countries among the
indicatorc depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless othervaso noted, 'Data for 1960U  refer to any year between 1959 snd 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 19b9 and
1971; ad data for "Hoct Recent Estimate' between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /I  1975; /f 1962; 1. 1978.
May 1983



-28 -                                                                     ANNEX I
DEIIXMOF SOCIAL ISfICfiOdS                                                    Page   3  of   5   Pages
Mcts.   Athough the dataar  d-ue  from soRcesgesiL  jodgad ch. set soth.lustrotssd-                           etbs  lit shoud .1w  be  ot.d thnt Eby  5y our be  nso.tn
comptrablo  tocauss of rho lack of arsoar~~dtood  defti.ttoft  ard oo-npt.  .     by dilffaro   co_tet   tociaioLb    os    b    at   r,nmtaos   sfls
de..oribo   rsao.       antd,ttls.ted,sdcastee    eot   ao   difdrses losstcoRitis .9  h   ..T.                                                              T,- h,.               R
The rsfaroc   droop  5t) i  the'as Icutr  gopcofrh   so.outysd  2)oourygupoe,oeeat higher- arm Sg  mos_  thtam  itsh ourygop  fc
oubjtcoty(ectfr "Hig   it.                      Oil ctprir'gru  t               Mr  dfiddl  Iocoe M.rth Afrca, so  Mhido  ur,'   i   hsnbcueo   togrsootlu
sfitis. i   h   eeec    ru   oo   h                 .         erioc    sgedoiloooae   o   sf   oiso   ltaetoipsbosjrr    foscutoab 
if ltsd90dta                                                                                        ouatt  a    uso  PSrsth-Popaisior diided  b   chm.s  ofprotc
lericolu-    l    tsri si  ofsrcluu    rsds   sprrtyo   ssnni                                                sasdfm            gr-h-r  ouee ,"',-assattrs    pyo -tlnuee  o
1970 ard L9fOrsPrlatrarhat sa'l ld-  total  urho   l at rual-   fpuatty                                                                                                             fto
Asci,,Il ...I                                                                                      :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oro,  odrra)dicidd.   h  creptlrnma   ftsta    a
COPPE  Iyil  (i)  -  OPpa  cp is  steata   t  urrntsuka   prce,                                    osthie  in1 plosdpissgrrL  sd  pctiae    osialsd
cacuocd  ysuo   orre  r   ethd  5  lol  hokcr051978iholi                                 rhst iatooontrs.   saloss  raetelllistspsm9sti   tsfe
1960, l970, and i9fO data.                                                                                 bryo t Isitie.r.u.      lift.bptoplgnrlh... P hospttaie,  roottur                d
ENERGY CONSLNPTION PER CAPITA  ~ ~          ~            ~           ~            hooits 5,Loclo   ualhe  ti a. ~sa ich.od                     .tcihutlrs
1fot0i !97uio0         t-Oa     boon   )      oo  Julr I ff,8000,ad   98                                 odtoIoo   po    e   tltd-  os   uo                 fadtsos  oo   ishrs
P dsts.lO                                                                                                  triALSATSTC  Z,1hosiasdcddh   h   obrc   as
rooclarPion "ro)ecioos...            -oosacofdJconsists0of1a70cour of ltd tiui   h   hr   t  o   aIr
Porloio   i  yarlii     Curat  ooolfln   rosutor  oe  osd  n  98    -         ro   crPi sa       ..asi.       h.ora   rldgrsyo   a   otb   tlddi
iocal  pocoat ion ip  ge sod so  and theicaorta 11c  soAetliyrd!                             osbl   forI9~l. btylrts   porpoess.  .                            i-.,.
rates.    rolechoo  pa s9srer   for scI'll   rOsceriso   hsaOsosnabro   erosI                                                      ro-uaI.ubn   ndrrla-reom
lposlaesueool.reopecottyttithcncrosoooithcuotryspsrof poeore   srrotnollrhotatdroulocopAedono..tona
capta   ocse  ace ,aooiralehOeerocrocyectilteng  t 7.5duel hgs  rspetioly. Ibel  ire  oc od   no-psmaatlt8rnrrssso
y     Yrs    Te  arseer   fo   otlt    oeas    ostonlni                                        coooulo-prt.c                      m    :                          :,r,L
-soor    eliei-   fri icy  ccodiog.   ... -ncoe   roeiard  pas  teeii                         hccsec      h.ldotf..c ... ceccort ofp_ lisI-ous.or_,ad  ua
p arn   pruocc. tc%ccr    i   boesse    ooo=Irsnt                                                       ooettte%ol1m.at  eetiit    ol  isnarasa   orelg
cosriosticos of sorcolitoaod  fertilIty  cratd i fo  prjoio    uro .o  totl,arbn,so  ruHral do dllIngrI-c,osp
Stecltoryoocuor in -  n s  cot ohary00 olattn  thre  i  no  o-oi
s10cr the birch  rat  to equal to roe dacn  roco. std  .100the age  tillC,lTl0
strutur   reginsconsant   Thi  isotnuoodonl  uftr frtilty.ates.. .te0torlisst ttto
delnet  osrelcaet  eslo  ui  ntrerdototrce   bePrian   coo Ltr..sisad...l-rtstoa,-as  t  rsl
pouatcnaloolIh   asbd -   -ecoddry schoo  - hoist  sale an  fece      oe  lds bolde; .,As6rd1r
Potutartur honoity                                                                         sduoeriunrsnulrssat~~~~~~~  ... b     dj,"        least.. fou  pears of  pccrtred  prssyicstc if t
fer p. ka  ourculfral  and   IComptedhs sboe-tr1o-tculYra.iland.ed.all  epclude
ony;(-     0   L970sndhf0 ata                                                                          nttinl.  enobeat  parcn  of b.r-orlM  -Otanionsi Inst iguton
Po 1s  o   d    tutr   paretI-Cilrn(-4   er),soigss(S                                                inclcd5  techniusd tS_Inaustrial,  or othee      - pros -d fitu  ooscar  .n-do-y
04yers.  ndreird   hiyeraso   oe)-s   srerags  f  udner                                                    nfy  r  aoear-srsofseonar  Istruioa
poultin;190   1071, sd 191S dais.'.thI-ece   rai _                                                                   -1  .rso   so  seods-oa..oet   noldi
Pouoio -roh rc pcat                       . otl - Irna  gr-oh rates  f tota  sit-                  priety an  .... ondry lnsdtvfd by tabers of fes. hc.rs  to ho ar
yea  ppuetc  for 1950-60, 1960-70,  and 1970-fl.                                                         responfo ioes
purulsoton  Irooth  rare  (reroort    -r ~hur-on-1 gro-h rates of urban                        Meut ILtero    as(ecat -.crtaflsld    orsdsdatea
pooirioafrIOOd,90),  o    909.5protg   o oa    di   oua  o  aged_ISAfaste st.   or.d   i.
yope popist lot;  .150. 970  ad  191.dat.                                                           CLitptf
poPuloIot.; 1960, 1970, ond 1981 dor.                                                                    coesa  o   rsraogh parsoc;   etc. lu.desab. ine    heseesa sod
Ice  trooc  c  tt-ho ....  ..shbr of cuoghter   a  oa   Il   ori                  ll -                  ory  -hicise
ta   omlrpouciepco   fsh   uoioe                            aeraeapcfic                               tad ic lec..i-ar  (pe   noat   erltio   All typao of r-o -sr   for radio
fort ilicy cres.; usually flo-year.. -crges  end iin   19ff,  1970, and                                  bodtt tocoulpblic per rbo.....d of ~pselation; ecI.des o-
F-aily P Lanrins.    opue,sna   (hsud)-t a  tiber of  -coprOtsc l                                                      nfec;Oc   u   ecn-er   a    o to -oPst I..  atonesea
of billb-onrrt   dso.ic_   unersu  ices nf oartrs  fi mly Picn                                           --rr iss obo-ehed  lcnig
Penos.T  tcunr  'Pe'  thout..d pprl.rol-)  TVrttr   for brodat..gtlo
Psecly piaonc-sr-(areo    fnrre    serI-  scnrg    feandfeeoI.oti.prr uadpouo tn,t ue    ttfeee-Oreevr
avoso of ctuio-brarfo~~ 000 (( f-lyaro)  ah  u    P.hithnotrtroce   t                           in unu btir  ,u 
o   I uye hld nnn   ortur                                                                          rvuotCn.    o    cotd Y-  ttuud  oc- uin I     hsthaurg
rob  uni, 910011 Oh     ~rloi in:   I  dalI   fonry. Inrrresoceaspuyrr,defined  uoaperitdica
sogarateittra    f         ,rer   h lth ace edirl  so   oti  otu-sI .                  ~           0i c   tod dur,i~,g cre yea, inclod ingaisot   tdrio-in  citeasso
bsd=   o   a  cuoessProue                Irc      s ighe   19911,_b  1970, and 1981FOC
Perca 0110 aurrln  r islocten  (percet  of.ren......nts) - CosPuted from                       Tobs   labr PF-- tosra   -toous    ociep  er    itu   n    r
quactuLe.  ted Io food procegng,  sd losses it dietribut:: i,Fem-eI.  rep et.- -    Fesle.                                              abo   furc  asp        .re... oftta..hefc
Reqirs    rt st   ousroby FuC oused o   bs c tca   nodefr norst                                          crcluo(otn) -  abcr forc  in farmirg, f.rs.y.                        urig  o
actioity godh heol1, -idtoveing enoootstcaltes               trarr,  bdsegt*flbousp,rntg ofoalaoroc-, 91.1970 sod191 data.
ag   o e   istribution of popolot ion   n   lolg   0pretfr  at                                         nutr      etn    - is.,   borfoo   itolnng cosrti,saucrig
athcoo -dlvl  191     h,nlad 19S  data.                                                            and  iocc   -y atrad Isep  cn eo oa  Isbor foce                                 90
isurrif  croteh        ..as  re. vey)    etl    otr    f           -par capt                  i90an   91   as
tetappi   offon   pa  ds.  ht spply of fond  is-e-td as she.-                                PatciolnOLs(arot(-tocl,sl,snlsl       eriiptiot e
fequilco.ente  oralIcutrsoersll d  hr U 010  ov-ude for  _iiu                                             c  oiy   ae    r   optd As  otl  sae,cd  aol  ibr     rc
altococeoof hOgran   0t ttal  r-tr icpe  dsy and 20 grm    f sotea1 and                        yr ...n.ge   oftcI, sl  so "fsto              Ipuaior of all ageetrpc
Thr    ol   oo    urt;19ib,;7  and  990 data.                           d                                fccct   isednrtiut- Osl  o   cpltrote   IS and i5 ard  --rc
dsriaed  frs acvar  o  poIses it grass  !Prday; 19h1-hi, 1970 and 1I977
d'hts.                                                                                               INCOME DlOt"looflO
Chld   Ise    -)bec   ae(prrtoo) - ocount d-aths   pe   h.-.so   int~-     . c(yA~fcooIncome (both in c-h and  Rud)                                                     - tcie   ty rlheetI
age~ropl-irars,Lcnildrt  itthsags   coop;fc-  ostdssotg                                      oct7FEitoores pors   0pern  edpoetopraro
cutIor dots de-i-  from  life  labies;  fbi0, 1970 sod  1981 dos                                        -h.eblda.
'~fl~f  irrecencrc  hirilct)-or              hoote  it peac   of 1cf uesic-ina                      '!g   f7lloco   estlaosraory..p               bt  .easur.   of  -oety p ioei, And
atitth   110  170o     - 10  dots                                                                shu-ld  .n.....ts    it  cnide-sl    auin
infant MorItalt    ae  pr....d    nna    eth   fifuc    oe  one                                          tsE.sated Aheolote       et   Icool-ro  (Lh)  rr  c   tl-  racsd rura  -
Accs     I oflll-I   d,t Safe  cater  (pa rot of  otuato)-  oa,   ra, an, oa,                                 urtttlr         eut  dietpic  asata   nr  od requi eemett  Isto
oncttsinasd   sto  loh   t5 hat from  protcted boreboes-, springs, sod                             rua1eeir    oet   icm    ee    teo2 -bid   fsorgspa   apt
sairay.L!e    sPa....otage   of their  e poie eoltiona.  L. a                                       p--sos  L.c-   ofth ch.       orey.Ubnlnli   eicod  feo  tenut
that A.c....putti   fo-ttui  or etatdpos   located to  sore thoo 200 sarer                              Inoel oitbad) tsao   o  higher  -c  of 1 ieing it urb aras
fin       houe sa  ho-oredered As hairs ohtb in.reeso.bls acces.o Iba thr,te   poultio                                      io Abelul-    ter   InoeLorltore-                    -r
house.   In ralc.     .. .rs .s.ees.oale-.s.. .ould implyta  the bo sfa orad ru.. I - -tret ofM                                                                 ..ltotIubn  o   us  I   oae  aalt
tedoyPin fstobhn   the eseily' 5satr nes
ho ps e  --t sd   es-este   byasebon   ssim r  h  us.t        E..  of dipig.                                                        .cnmcodlsesd   pr(stto   DpD-oo
prlnieg and       t sisthar- iusraiE-tlore.1y                                                                                                              ay 1983.tL..N ct



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
- 29 -
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                               Annual growth rate (%) /a
current prices)                               Actual                             Estimated projected
Indicator                             1982           1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /b           90,216          5.0    6.9    8.9    7.7    6.3    9.9    7.9   -0.1    4.5    5.5    4.7
Agriculture                       23,703          0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    3.9    5.2    4.9    1.8    3.0    3.5    2.0
Industry                          34,638          5.6   11.1   14.2    8.7    7.1   12.5    8.5   -6.9    5.6    8.1    5.3
Services                          31,875        10.1    5.9   12.5    9.2    7.7   11.8    9.8    5.5    4.3    4.2    4.8
Consumption                         73,377          6.4    7.9    5.6    8.9   13.6   13.1   15.8    3.2    0.5    3.9    3.0
Gross investment                    20,373         14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.7   11.1   13.0   -5.4    4.0    4.0
Exports of GNFS                     20,189         -2.4   17.0    9.5    1.0   -0.1   -5.7   -2.4  -12.0   13.9    6.4    4.8
Imports of GNFS                     23,723         11.7   16.8    4.4   12.7   22.5   16.9   27.1    2.9   -7.4             -   -1.3
Gross national savings              13,877        -16.3   14.2   30.2  -17.5   62.5   33.2  -20.0  -22.6   14.6    9.8    5.0
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 - 100)                           166    190    214    238    315    407    448    504    585    644    695
Exchange rate                                       415    415    415    442    623    627    632    661    910
Share of GDP at market prices (%)
(at current prices)                            Average annual increase (%) /a
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990           1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product            100    100    100    100    100    100             3.9        8.4        7.4        4.4        4.9
Agriculture                      54      47     32      25      25      23         2.7        4.1        3.3        3.4        3.7
Industry                         14      18     34      43      39     40          5.2       12.0        9.8        3.7        5.2
Services                         32      35     35      32      36      37         4.8        9.7        9.5        5.9        5.5
Consumption                      91     89      79      71      74     73          4.1        8.4        9.2        4.7        4.8
Gross investment                  8      14     20      21      22      22         4.8       18.3       12.2        6.4        5.4
Exports of GNFS                  13      13     23      31      27      26         3.6        9.2        2.9        1.8        4.4
Imports of GNFS                 -13    -16    -22    -22    -22    -21             3.2       22.1       14.0        3.3        4.1
Gross national savings            8       9     17      26      22      23         6.1       23.1       14.2        1.5        5.8
As % of GDP
1960               1970                1975                1980                1982
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                 11.7                10.1                17.4                22.5                20.8
Current expenditures                            14.0                 8.4                 9.9                12.8                13.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                      -2.3                +1.6                +7.5                +9.7                +7.7
Capital expenditure                              n.a.                5.0                11.3                13.0                 8.0
Foreign financing                                0.2                 3.5                 3.7                 3.3                 0.3
1960-70          1970-75           1975-80           1980-85          1985-90
OThER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                              4.5               7.6               7.1             4.5               5.0
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                   2.4               5.1               4.7             2.4               2.8
Annual energy consumption growth rate (F)               2.2              11.2              11.0              1.5/d            4.9
ICOR                                                    2.2               2.2               3.3             5.3               4.4
Marginal savings rate                                   0.30              0.48              0.28            0.28/e            0.30/e
Import elasticity                                       1.2               2.8               0.84            0.75              0.84
/a At constant 1973 prices for 1975-81, and 1981 prices for 1982-85.
T   At market prices.
7W Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
/d 1981-85.
7e For the last year of the period.
East Asia and Pacific Region
April 26, 1984



-                  ~~~~~~ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
Population    :  152.6 million (mid-1982)
GNP per Capita:  US$580 (1982 estimate)                          _ 30 -
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMEITS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millioes US$ at current prices)
Actual                                  Estimated Projected
1977     1978      1979     1980      1981      1982    1983      1984     1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS/a
1.  Exports                            10,861   11,353   18,510   22,885   22,994   18,637  19,730   21,238   22,698   44,832
(a)  Oil and LNG (gross)            7,354    7,374   12,340   17,297   18,824   14,743  14,560   15,422   15,942   31,028
(b)  Nonoil                         3,507    3,979    6,171    5,587    4,170    3,894   5,170    5,816    6,756   13,804
2.  Imports (including net NFS)       -10,686  -11,493  -13,205  -17,589  -22,572  -22,341 -19,973  -20,669  -21,957  -39,114
(a)  Oil sector                    -2,909   -3,364   -2,940   -4,050   -5,407   -4,802  -4,730   -4,876   -4,801   -9,035
((b)  Nomoil imports              -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,837  -14,561  - 15.824 -13,843  -14,384  -15,865  -28,520
(c)  NFS (net)                       -536     -586   -1,237   -1,702   -2,604   -1,715  -1,400   -1,409   -1,291   -1,559
3.  Resource balance                      175      -140    5,305    5,296       422   -3,703    -243        569       741    6,718
4.  Factor services                      -865   -1,015   -3,106   -3,165   -3,442   -3,705  -4,080   -4,360   -4,823   -8,408
(a)  Interest public debt           -441      -485      -635     -724      -977   -1,161  -1,179   -1,432   -L,664   -2,398
(b)  Other (set)                    -424      -530   -2,471   -2,441   -2,465   -2,544  -2,901   -2,928   -3,159   -6,010
5.  Capital grants                         66        46       52        76       67       105       95      100       110      150
6.  Balance no current account           -624   -1,109    2,251    2,207   -2,953   -7,303  -4,228   -3,691   -3,972   -2,540
7.  Direct foreign inves.tent             285       271      2L7       140       142      311      234      400       500      800
B.  Public M 8 LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                   1,956    1,638    1,939    2,864    2,566    4,250   4,991    5,108    5,186    6,120
(b)  A-orti.ati.n                   -825      0977   -1,335      -987   -1,001   -1,148  -1,541   -1,937   -2,231   -4,234
(c)  Net disbursements              1,131      660       604    1,877    1,565    3,102   3,450    3,171    2,955    1,886
9.  Other capital (net)                  -140       888   -1,382   -1,488       258       540   2,223       -49       638      521
10.  Change it  reserves (- increase)    -651       -708   -1,690   -2,736       988    3,350  -1,679         71      -121     -667
11. Net official reserves                2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    6,354    3,004   4,683    4,612    4,733    5,640
Reserves in months of nonoil
ixporto + NFS                       3.4      4.3       5.4      6.5       4.4      2.1      3.7       3.5      3.3       2.3
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system/b                                 -        -    6,906   10,787   11,154    6,321   8,355    8,284    8,405    9,312
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                          3.4      4.3       8.1      9.6       7.8       4.3     6.6       6.3      5.9       3.7
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT/c
Gross Disbursements                    1,956    2.205    I65    2.536    2.566    4,251
Concessional Loans                       442      484       433       659      792       669
8ilateral                            381      448       399       611      718       587
IDA                                   49       29        30        42       69        78
Other                                 12         6        5         6        5         4
Nonconce-sional Loans                  1_.14    1.721    1.432    1,858    1.774    3,582
Official erport credits                218       271       61        44      165       485
IBRLD                                  191       168      199       331      314       505
Other multilateral                        16        12       46        52       85       126
Private-source                         1,089    1,270    1,126    1,449    1,210    2,466
Eiternal Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed/d  11,658   13.107   13,234   14,882   15.737   18.426
Official-source                   7,077    8,390    8,434    9,400   10,114   11,129
Private-source                     4,583    4,717    4,799    5,482    5,623    7,297
Undisbursed debt                     4,475    5,839    7,932    9,454   11,354   12,435
Debt Service
Total service payments               1,262   2,06 2    2,100    1,772    1,977    2,308
Interest                             441      514       771      819       977    1,160
Payments as % of exports/s            11.6     18.2      11.3       7.7      8.6      12.4
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(M)                                    6.3      7.6       6.6      8.2       8.6       9.4
Officiai-source                        5.6      4.6       5.0       5.5      7.9       9.0
Private-source                         8.6      10.2      8.6      12.3      9.2       9.7
Average Maturity of N.. Loans
(Years)                               20.5     18.8      18.6      18.6     15.2      15.0
Official-source                       23.8     30.1      24.8     24.4      20.8      20.6
Private-source                         9.1      8.7      11.0       9.9     10.6      10.8
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1982
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                               40
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                              69
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                             5.7
/a On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
/b  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7W  Emcludes private nonguaranteed loans.
7d  At end of period.
7W  Oil exports treated on gross basis.
East Asia and Pacific Region
April 26, 1984



ANNEX II
-31-                     Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1984) /a
US$ million
Loan/                                                                   Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                          Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Nineteen Loans and thirty-seven Credits fully disbursed 876.0    544.1             -
479   1974   Bali Tourism                                     -       14.6        0.4
1100  1975   Sixth Irrigation                               65.0        -         5.0
1197  1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping             13.0        -        0.9
1237  1976   Fourth Education                               37.0        -        2.6
1268  1976   Seventh Irrigation                             33.0        -        4.6
1337  1977   Tanjung Priok Port                             32.0        -         2.3
1365  1977   Sixth Power                                   116.0        -       21.4
1433  1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education               19.0        -        3.5
1434  1977   Eighth Irrigation                              63.0        -        19.7
1435  1977   Ninth Irrigation                               35.0        -         2.9
1472  1977   Second Population                              24.5        -        6.0
1486  1978   Non-Formal Education                           15.0        -        2.2
1499  1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I              65.0        -       18.2
1513  1978   Seventh Power                                  94.0        -       25.8
785  1978   Small Enterprise Development                     -       40.0       7.2
1578  1978   Tenth Irrigation                              140.0        -       86.3
1579  1978   Eleventh Irrigation                            31.0        -        8.6
827  1978   Rural Credit                                     -       30.0        2.1
1604  1978   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders II               65.0        -       40.3
869  1979   Polytechnic                                      -       49.0      18.8
1645  1979   Twelfth Irrigation                             77.0        -       37.9
1653  1979   Third Urban Development                        54.0        -       17.3
898  1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                       -       10.0       7.1
1691  1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control              50.0        -       26.5
1692  1979   Second Agricultural Training                   42.0        -        9.7
1696  1979   Fifth Highway                                 123.2        -       55.8
1703  1979   Fourth BAPINDO                                 50.0        -        3.4
919  1979   Transmigration II                                -       67.0       8.3
1707  1979   Transmigration II                              90.0        -       87.8
1708  1979   Eighth Power                                  175.0        -       51.5
1709  1979   Second Water Supply                            36.0        -       14.7
946  1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                     -       12.0       7.9
1751  1980   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders III              99.0        -       50.2
984  1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                   -       45.0      30.0
/a    The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



ANNEX II
- 32-                    Page 2 of 4 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                   Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                           Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
995  1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                              -       45.0      22.8
996  1980   National Agriculture Extension II                 -      42.0       34.6
1811  1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                          116.0        -       72.2
1835  1980   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders IV                42.0        -       33.3
1840  1980   National Agricultural Research                  35.0        -       35.0
1014  1980   National Agricultural Research                    -      30.0       14.1
1869  1980   Third Population                                35.0        -       27.0
1872  1980   Ninth Power                                    253.0       -       122.3
1898  1981   Smallholder Coconut Development                 46.0        -       35.6
1904  1981   University Development                          45.0       -        41.9
1950  1981   Tenth Power                                    250.0        -       87.8
1958  1981   Swamp Reclamation                               22.0        -       15.3
1972  1981   Fourth Urban Development                        43.0        -       32.2
2007  1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V              161.0        -      130.9
2011  1981   Second Small Enterprise Development            106.0        -       13.9
2049  1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                        85.0        -       80.1
2056  1982   Eleventh Power                                 170.0        -      127.0
2066  1982   Second Seeds                                    15.0        -       14.5
2079  1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                     185.0        -      132.5
2083  1982   Rural Roads Development                        100.0        -       76.3
2101  1982   Second Teacher Training                         80.0        -       79.6
2102  1982   Second Textbook                                 25.0       -        25.0
2118  1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                            37.0       -        30.2
2119  1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                          70.0       -        60.8
2120  1982   National Fertilizer Distribution                66.0        -       59.5
2126  1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders V'[                 68.1        -       65.9
2153  1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                    25.0       -        23.3
2199  1982   Central Java Pulp & Paper                        5.5       -         4.6
Engineering Project
2214  1983   Twelfth Power                                  300.0       -       286.5
2232  1983   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders VII              154.6        -      152.3
2235  1983   Provincial Health                               27.0       -        26.6
2236  1983   Jakarta Sewerage & Sanitation                   22.4        -       22.2
2248  1983   Transmigration III                             101.0       -        87.8
2258  1983   Public Works Manpower Development               30.0       -        29.8
Project
2275  1983   East Java Water Supply I                        30.6        -       30.5
2277  1983   BAPINDO V                                      208.9        -      195.8
2288  1983   Transmigration IV                               63.5       -        62.6
2290  1983   Second Polytechnic                             107.4       -       107.1



ANNEX II
- 33                     Page 3 of 4 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                          Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
2300  1983   Thirteenth Power                              279.0       -       277.5
2341  1984   Third Agriculture Training                     63.3       -       63.1
2344  1984   Nucleus Estate & Smallholder Sugar             79.2       -        75.8
2355  1984   Second Non-Formal Education                    43.0       -        42.9
2375  1984   Second Provincial Irrigation /a               89.0        -       89.0
Total Bank loans and IDA credits           6,204.1    928.7
Of which has been repaid                    -292.7    -11.3
Total now outstanding                      5,911.4    917.4
Amount sold to third party        28.2
Amount repaid by third party    -28.2         -0-
Total now held by Bank and IDA/b           5,911.4    917.4
Total undisbursed                          3,581.2    153.3   3,734.5
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
- 34 -,
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                               Type of            Loan    Eq-; ty    Total
year         Obligor                business           ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement             10.6       2.5      13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles            2.5      0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0      0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable               2.8      0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            4.5       1.5       6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               9.8       1.6      11.4
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.4      0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0      0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics         0.9       -         0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.      -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            2.4      0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.0      1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            0.4        -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            1.3      0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles            0.9       -         0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market:    4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9      12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Ceiment and
Indonesia              Construction
Material         48.0      5.0       53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market        4.0      0.3        4.3
1984   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement             25.0       -        25.0
Total gross commitments                       142.6      19.6      162.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled           100.8       6.5      107.3
Total held by IFC                              41.8      13.1       54.9
Undisbursed (including participant's portion) 8.0                    8.0



ANNEX III
- 35 -
INDONESIA
THIRD SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:         July 1983-September 1983
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:         Bank Indonesia
(c) Date of the first Bank mission to
consider the project:                   July 1983
(d)  Departure of the appraisal mission:        September 1983
(e)  Negotiations completed:                    April 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:             September 1984
Section II.  Special Bank Implementation Action
To help BI upgrade its management and administration of the KIK/KMKP
program, including the associated technical assistance, it will be important
that this project be intensively supervised.
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) A study to review the various technical assistance delivery
mechanisms in Indonesia and existing policies which either promote
or constrain the development of SSEs would be completed by June 30,
1985 (para. 27);
(b) BI will complete by September 30, 1985 a post-disbursement review of
KMKP lending to judge whether the new KMKP lending procedures intro-
duced under the project are sufficient to ensure that Bank resources
are being used effectively (para. 41);
(c) A review of ASKRINDO with a view to arriving at recommendations
which would improve ASKRINDO's operations and financial viability
would be completed by December 31, 1984 (para. 42);
(d) BI would implement the Action Program for improving the quality of
the KIK/KMKP loan portfolio discussed and agreed upon during
negotiations (para. 42);
(e) An appropriate MIS system, including an arrears data collection
system, would be installed for BI and the handling banks and would
be fully operational by March 31, 1985 (para. 49); and
(f) A subsidy would be provided by the Government, in the form of an
explicit budgetary allocation, to BI for redistribution to the
handling banks, in order to assure an adequate spread for the
handling banks, given the cost of their KIK/KMKP funds and the
administered lending rate; the appropriateness of this subsidy and
lending rates under KIK/KMKP would be reviewed annually in light of
market conditions (para. 52).



I



-~~~~l
'0{  'i                                                       4/i4 -"*
j3 ~ ~ ~ ~ N
% ; ? 0 t e~4,                                                        5-; 
(   -e  .-. 0t 0 /                   2                        -. --\'" oDEi
<2 6.12 t                             
h Xm . \ t >2                         5     >/    - m
4 ~ ~      ~       ~      ~~~ ,-   o-
)a ~   ~        ~        ~        I
a ~  ~       ~      ~ ~~~~~ '~'                   0        4  
c     .=    t  ro              9  S   >            | | _   -    D~~~~- 
w~ ~ ~~~~~- m.    j    i t      
g ~ ~       ~~~                        <2        'N ab ;og=                      
63N 
444                      2
oAP A           N WNGINE






