OF1FCAL       LOAN NUMBER 2430 IND
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Third Small Enterprise Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
Dated           t       CQ          , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2430 IND
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   cqa 0     , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON RUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and     ANK RAKYAT INDONESIA (hereinafter
called BRI).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two
hundred  four   million  six  hundred   fifty  thousand  dollars
($204,650,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that BRI agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BRI, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
BRI on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BRI, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BRI declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out Part D of the Project, de-
scribed in said Schedule, with due diligence and efficiency and


﻿-2-
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
technical practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist BRI in carrying out Part D
of the Project, BRI shall employ, by March 31, 1985, or such
other date as the Bank shall otherwise agree, consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to be select-
ed in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods required for Part D of the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) BRI undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by BRI to replace or repair such goods.
(b) BRI shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) BRI shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the reports and contract documents for
Part D of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) BRI: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Part D of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan for such Part, and to disclose their use in such Part;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facili-
ties included in Part D of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for such Part and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall


﻿- 3 -
reasonably request concerning Part D of the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by BRI of any contract for goods or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part D of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between BRI and
the Bank, BRI shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of Part D of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by BRI and the Bank of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.06. BRI shall duly perform all its obligations
under the BRI Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, BRI shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiv-
ing the BRI Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) BRI shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part
D of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the BRI Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) BRI shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Part D of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by BRI of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the BRI Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. BRI shall:
(a) by December 31, 1985, or such other date as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, carry out an evaluation of its management,
administration and lending operations and furnish to the Bank for


﻿comments the results of the evaluation, the recommendations for
institutional and operational changes, and a plan of action to
carry out such recommendations; and
(b) promptly upon receipt of the Bank's comments on such
recommendations and plan of action, carry out such plan of
action, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
Section 2.09. BRI shall, by December 31, 1984, or such other
date as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) carry out a review of the rules and regulations appli-
cable to its lending operations; and
(b)  make recommendations to the Borrower and BI on a plan
of action to standardize such rules and regulations applicable to
its lending programs having similar purposes.
ARTICIZ III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) BRI shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
(b) BI shall retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure, and shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. BRI shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial s.,-tements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;


﻿- 5 -
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate opinions by said auditors in respect of expenditures and
records referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan made available to it and with-
drawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expen-
diture have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and
(c)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of BRI thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify BRI thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,


﻿- 6 -
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Bank Rakyat Indonesia:
Kantor Besar Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Jalan Veteran, 8
P.O. Box 94
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable address:                     Telex:
KANPUS BRI                        44300 KBBRI IA
Jakarta                           44220 KBBRI IA
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behali of BRI may be taken or executed by its
President Director or such person or persons as the Board of
Directors of BRI shall designate in writing, and BRI shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By    ~i.A~~GC'v~w
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
Byi                               R   ev
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of        198
FOR SECRETARY


