Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY           FILE         COPY
Report No. 2465
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 751-YU)
April 11, 1979
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 751-YU)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE                                                          iii
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET                        iv
HIGHLIGHTS                                                         v
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM                               1
I.  Background                                                  1
II.  Project Results                                             1
III.  Main Issues                                                 3
IV.  Conclusions                                                 7
Annexes
1.  Currencies Disbursed and Their Dollar Equivalent            9
2.  Alignment of the Hoce-Levec (Arja Vas) Road                10
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                                         11
I.  Introduction                                               11
II.  Sector Background                                          11
III.  Project Preparation and Appraisal                          12
IV.  Project Implementation and Cost                            13
A.  General                                                13
B.  Execution of Civil Works                               14
C.  Costs                                                  15
D.  Quality of Completed Work                              16
E.  Equipment Procurement                                  16
F.  Consulting Services                                    16
G.  Loan Covenants                                         18
V.  Institutional Development                                   18
VI.  Economic Justification                                      20
A.  General                                                20
B.  Traffic                                                20
C.  Economic Benefits/Costs                                22
D.  Economic Return                                        23
VII.  The Role of the Bank                                        24
VIII.  Conclusions                                                 24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfqrnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discIlod without World Bank authorintion.



Page No.
Annexes
1.  Actual and Expected Project Execution                      26
2. Comparison of Actual and Appraisal
Estimates of Project Costs                               27
3.  Procurement of Equipment                                 28-29
4.  Staff Training Abroad                                      30
5.  Average Annual Daily Traffic Volumes
on Project Roads (1970-1990)                             31
6.  Average Daily Traffic Volumes (1975/76)                    32
7.  Amount of Tolls on Different Types of Vehicles             33
8.  Vehicle Operating Costs - Net oLf Taxes                    34
9. Ex-Post and Appraisal Estimates of
Economic Rates of Return                                 35
Map (IBRD 3165RI)
Highway System - Yugoslavia



- iii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 751-YU)
Preface
This report presents a performance audit of the Yugoslavia Fifth
Highway Project for which Loan 751-YU was closed, fully disbursed, in De-
cember 1977. The memorandum is based on the attached Project Completion
Report (PCR) prepared by the Bank's Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Region, discussions with Bank staff familiar with the project, review of
files and the minutes of the Board of Executive Directors' meeting which
considered the project.
A visit to the Republics of Slovenia and Macedonia and the Au-
tonomous Province of Kosovo, in Yugoslavia, was undertaken by OED staff
in November 1978 to discuss the issues related to the project and acquire
additional information. The excellent assistance of the roads organizations
in the two republics and province is gratefully acknowledged. The draft
report was sent to the Government, but no comments were received.
On the basis described above, the audit accepts the principal
conclusions of the PCR. However, the audit provides additional comment
on the failure to utilize project-financed equipment, minimizing delays
stemming from right-of-way acquisition and reasons for imposing tolls.
In addition, it expands on the impact of the consultants' services and
the training program, and on the environmental implications of the roads'
location, prompting realignment.






- iv -
PROJECT PERFORKANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 751-YU)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Actual
Original        Current
Item                     Plan           Estimate
Total Project Cost (USS Million)         88.10           105.00
Overrun (X)                                                19%
Loan Amount (US$ Million)                35.0             35.0
Disbursed                              35.0             35.0
Cancelled                                 0                0
Repaid to 9/78                           -               2.2
Outstanding to  9/78                     -              32.8
Date Civil Works completed              3/31/76         7/21/76I/
Proportion actually completed by
above date                               90%              §9%
Time over-run (Z)                          -                10%
Economic Rate of Return (C)              15Z-20%         9%-30%
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS Million)
FY72    FY73    FY74    FY75     FY76    FY77    FY78
Ci)  Estimated     8.6    18.2    27.8    32.8     35.0    35.0    35.0
(ii)  Actual         -      6.6    16.3    30.0     34.6    34.7    35.0
% of (ii) to (i)    -     36.3     58.6    91.5    98.9    99.1   100.0
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Actual
or
Original        Current
Items                         Plan           Estimate
First Mentioned in Files                6/30/69         6/30/69
Government's Application                  -                -
Negotiations                              -             4/05/71
Board Approval                            -             6/10/71
Loan Signature                            -             6/18/71
Effectiveness                           9/30/71         6/02/72
Closing Date                            9/01/76        12/31/77
Borrower                                    SFR Yugoslavia
Executing Agency                            Yugoslav Investment Bank
Fiocal Year of Borrowers                    January 1-December 31
Follow-on Project                           Sixth Highway Project
Loan Number                                  990-YU
Amount                                       $30.0 m
Loan Signature                               5/31/74
MISSION DATA
No. of    No. of
Purpose          Month/Year     Weeks     Persons     Manweeks    Report Date
Preappraisal     5/70              1         1           1          8/31/70
Appraisal        10/70             4          2          8         10/12/70
Supervision I    9/71              2          1          2          9/29/71
Supervision II   6/72              1         2           2          7/20/72
Supervision III  11/72             1         2           2          1/11/73
Supervision IV   3-6/74            1-1/2     2           3          6/28/74
Supervision V    7-8/75            1         1           1          9/5/75
Supervision VI   3/76              1         2          2           6/10/76
Supervision VII 9/76               1         2          2          10/08/76
Supervision VIII 3-4/77            1         2          2           6/27/78
16
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency                           Dinar
Appraisal Year (1970)                   US$1.00 - Din   15.00
1972                          US$1.00 - Din  16.75
1973                          US$1.00 - Din  15.20 - 16.75
1974                          US$1.00 - Din  15.20 - 17.23
1975                          US$1.00 -Din   17.00 - 18.00
1976                          US$1.00 = Din  18.00 - 18.24
1/ Excludes minor additional work required on the Skopje-Tetovo
and Kicevo-St. Razmo roads and completion of the training program.






- v -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 751-YU)
Highlights
The Yugoslavia Fifth Highway Project supported the execution of
the third and final phase of a highway program submitted to the Bank in
1968. The civil works component of the project was successfully completed
generally in line with the appraisal schedule. However, the training pro-
gram, which was a new feature of Bank highway lending in Yugoslavia, ex-
perienced considerable delay due to cultural and administrative difficul-
ties not envisioned at appraisal (paras. 3 and 10-12). The services of
consultants to help improve project preparation and highway planning were
particularly successful. The consultants prepared "Guidelines for the
Preparation of Feasibility Studies" which have helped to provide a stan-
dard method of project preparation in Yugoslavia's republics and autonomous
provinces (paras. 8-9).
This project, as was the case with previous highway projects in
Yugoslavia, experienced difficulties in acquiring right-of-way. One of the
project roads passed through a rich agricultural area and farmers opposed
it on the grounds of its destruction of this land. The alignment of the
road was therefore changed at some delay and cost increase (paras. 13-16).
Points of special interest from the project experience are:
- the need for a thorough investigation of traffic
potential (paras. 17-20 and 24);
-  the need to review the impact of tolls and their
effect on traffic (paras. 21-22 and 25);
- careful development of a training program and
adequate attention to constraints (paras. 10-12);
and
Borrower's concern over exchange rate risk in Bank
loans (para. 6).






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
YUGOSLAVIA FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 751-YU)
I. Background
1.        The Yugoslavia Fifth Highway Project (Loan 751-YU) of 1971 for
US$35 million supported the Borrower's third and final phase of a highway
program submitted to the Bank for financing in 1968; the first two phases
were financed partly by the Third and Fourth Highway Projects. The proj-
ect assisted in financing the construction of five trunk road sections to-
talling 153 km in the Republics of Slovenia and Macedonia and in the Au-
tonomous Province of Kosovo (PCR, paras. 4.01-4.04). All but one of these
sections were extensions of roads constructed under earlier Bank-financed
highway projects. In addition, the project provided for: (a) consultants'
services to the roads organizations in Yugoslavia's six republics and two
autonomous provinces for improving highway planning, research, maintenance
and project preparation; (b) purchase of road equipment such as traffic
counters and weighing scales; and (c) training abroad of about 60 highway
officials. The Fifth Highway Project was the first to support components
other than road construction (PCR, para. 3.03).
2.        The First and Second Highway Projects supported by Loans 344-YU
and 485-YU of 1963 and 1967, respectively, were completed within the orig-
inal cost estimates and the agreed time schedules as discussed in OED's
Comparative Evaluation of Selected Highway Projects (Report No. 349). The
Third Highway Project (Loan 608-YU of 1969 for US$30 million) and the Fourth
Highway Project (Loan 678-YU of 1970 for US$40 million) were completed
satisfactoi:ily but with cost overruns of 33% and 39%, respectively, mainly
due to price escalation as discussed in the Project Performance Audit Re-
ports (Report No. 1385 and Report No. 1632). Delays of up to three years
affected the Fourth Highway Project, mainly due to difficulties in securing
the right-of-way and agreeing on the alignments of two roads, while the
Third Highway Project was largely completed on time except for minor com-e
ponents (access roads) which were delayed by up to two years because of ex-
propriation problems and complications in relocating public utilities. The
execution of both projects was affected by lengthy debates between interest
groups and communes who wished to relocate road alignment and who c6ntested
expropriatLon procedures.   Their economic justification was also adversely
affected by7 traffic underruns.
II. Project Results
3.        Ilost components of the project were completed by 1976 and all com-
ponents wevte completed by March 1978, two years after the appraisal sched-
ule. This delay, however, reflects the one year delay in effectiveness and
the difficulties encountered in implementing the training program, which
took seven years instead of three because of administrative and cultural
problems which are discussed in paragraphs 10-12. Construction of the proj-
ect roads, however, was completed about ten months to a year-and-a-half ahead
of the appraisal schedule with one exception (the Hoce-Levec (Arja Vas) Road),
which was delayed by four months. The delay stemmed from land acquisition



difficulties resulting in the realignments of the road via Arja Vas (dis-
cussed in para. 15) and also from the lack of counterpart funds (PCR,
para. 4.09). Moreover, although work on four sections was completed
ahead of schedule, additional work was required after the contracts were
completed on the Skopje-Tetovo and Kicevo-St. Razmo roads due to unstable
soil conditions which was not anticipated in the appraisal (PCR, para. 4.11).
These additional works have entailed more extensive drainage structures, re-
taining walls and landscaping of slopes.   The additional cost in the in-
stance of the Skopje-Tetovo Road was US$277,800, while on the Kicevo-St.
Razmo Road, where work is not yet completed, the cost is estimated to be
US$178,400. The advisory services for project preparation and planning
provided by consultants (Dorsch/Berger) were successfully completed. Equip-
ment was procured by the time the loan account was closed in mid-1977, re-
presenting a delay of four years because of the original delay in effective-
ness and some modification in the list of equipment to be purchased. The
equipment listed in the PCR, Annex 3, is being used in the two republics
which the audit mission visited. However, in the Autonomous Province of
Kosovo, the six permanent traffic counters received in 1976 have still not
been installed; the four mobile ones are in use.
4.        The total project cost of US$;105 million (Din. 1,747 million)
represents an overrun of 19% over the appraisal estimate, including con-
tingencies of US$88.1 million (Din. 1,322 million) (PCR, Annex 2). The
overrun in terms of local currency is 32%, the difference being explained
by domestic inflation. The total cost of construction in US dollars ex-
ceeded the appraisal estimate by 20%. Overruns on the Postojna-Razdrto
and Hoce-Levec (Arja Vas) roads of 31% and 28%, respectively, were greatest
and are explained by price escalation, construction delay and changes in
the alignment. The cost of the Kicevo-St. Razmo Road was 7% over the ap-
praisal estimate, mainly due to the additional work required to stabilize
slide-prone terrain (PCR, para. 4.13). The actual cost of the Skopje-
Tetovo and Kosovo-Polje Pristina roads was 9% below the estimate in spite
of additional reinforcing work on the former and several months' delay in
the latter due to changes in the design of a major interchange to better
accommodate traffic. There is an 18% underrun in the cost of engineering
equipment and a 12% underrun in the staff training program because of some
changes in equipment and the staff training program (paras. 10-12).
5.        The rates of return at appraisal on the project roads ranged be-
tween 15% and 20% while the reestimated rates of return at audit are between
9% and 30% (PCR, Annex 9). The lowest rates of return of 9% and 10% on the
Hoce-Levec (Arja Vas) and Postojna-Razdrto roads, respectively, result from
cost overruns and from lower than expected traffic which was only 56% and
62% of the appraisal forecast (PCR, Annex 5). The difference in traffic
demand forecasts at appraisal and actual average daily traffic is discussed
in Section III, paragraphs 17-20.
6.        W4hile the Borrower expressed satisfaction with its relationship
with the Bank, it was concerned that the effective cost of borrowing had
increased due to exchange rate changes., In particular, it cited the in-
stance of the Japanese yen which comprised about 25% of the various curren-
cies disbursed by the Bank under the loan and whose value has continued to



- 3 -
appreciate since the time of disbursement. The effect of currency fluc-
tuations under this project can be seen in Annex 1. The Economic Institute
of Belgrade is studying the issue of exchange rate risk. The Bank has also
been considering the problem of exchange rate risks on the part of its bor-
rowers and this problem is under discussion.
III. Main Issues
1. Institution Building - Advisory Services and the Training Program
7.        The PCR has indicated, and the audit agrees, that the overall in-
stitution-building effect of this project has been very positive (PCR, paras.
5.01-5.10). The Council of Roads Organization (CRO), a technical advisory
group representing all of the roads organizations in Yugoslavia, was estab-
lished and has helped facilitate the standardization of technical matters,
such as data collection and engineering standards. The loan has helped
strengthen highway administration by financing equipment to help in the
collection of highway data, advisory services and a training program.l/
The audit comments here on the advisory services and the training program.
Advisory Services
8.        The advisory services by consultants were intended to assist all
of the Republics and Provinces of Yugoslavia in improving the standards of
highway project preparation and economic evaluation, traffic engineering
and special aspects of highway design and maintenance (PCR, para. 4.18).
The consultants' principal work was the "Guidelines for the Preparation of
Feasibility Studies". The Borrower and the Bank consider these guidelines
to have been instrumental in providing uniformity in standards of appraisal
in Yugoslavia which was made difficult in the past because of the autonomy
of the republics and provinces and to have facilitated the preparation of
feasibility studies by the Borrower.
9.        Several factors have contributed to the usefulness and acceptance
of the guidelines. Firstly, staff of many of the republics and provinces
worked with the consultants in their preparation and all roads organiza-
tions participated in their review. The consultants and roads organiza-
tions' staff worked closely in the field, with the result that the guide-
lines are geared to the conditions of the borrowing country. Finally, the
consultants not only tested the guidelines, but also assisted in the actual
preparation of feasibility studies using the guidelines, such as those on
the Ljubljana-Vrhnika Road in Slovenia and the Prilip-Bitola Road in Mace-
donia, with the result that their validity and applicability was assured.
The Training Program
10.       A month before negotiations, in March 1971, the Borrower asked
the Bank to finance the foreign exchange cost of staff training in high-
way, traffic and maintenance engineering, transport economics and account-
ing. It was agreed during negotiations to send 60 candidates from the
1/ The CRO will prepare an audit report of the advisory services, train-
ing program and equipment utilization, which should be completed early
in 1979.



- 4 -
roads organizations and associated institutes to universities, highway
administrations and consulting firms abroad for an average period of six
months (360 staff months). However, because this component was added to
the project at a late date, it was not possible to prepare it thoroughly
before the loan signing. Consequently, the responsibility for preparing
the program was turned over to the CRO after loan signature. The CRO re-
commended a program for 127 candidates who would be trained for an average
period of three-and-a-half months. The Bank approved. However, the pro-
gram proceeded slowly and by mid-1974, only 13 candidates had participated
in or were undergoing training courses.
11.       As the PCR points out, while the various roads organizations
were interested in the training program, many staff did not speak a for-
eign language which would enable training abroad (PCR, para. 5.10). For
instance, in the Republic of Macedonia, there were 20 applicants but only
two spoke a foreign language and thus were accepted into the program.
Also, it was difficult to release staff for long periods of training and,
although CRO reduced the length of training to three-and-a-half months,
some of the smaller roads organizations, such as in the Autonomous Province
of Kosovo, were not able to release any staff for training. Moreover, staff
in some instances were unwilling to be away for long periods. Although it
was originally intended to strengthen staff development in transport econ-
omics, only one of the total 67 candidates underwent such training. This
resulted from difficulties created by length of training and language fa-
cility as well as the fact that the number of people working in the roads
organizations who have economic background is small. Finally, it was dif-
ficult to find consulting firms which were equipped and willing to train
staff. One of the republics expressed the view that while training by con-
sulting firms had in some instances produced good results, in others, the
firm which had initially agreed to train staff showed little real commit-
ment to do this. In future programs, where training by consulting firms
will be needed, a more careful screening of the firms concerned will be
necessary.
12.       Overall, while the number of candidates trained abroad was in
line with the appraisal forecast, the period of training ranged between
134-270 staff months compared with 360 staff months expected at appraisal.
Furthermore, the training received is considered to be less valuable than
expected and it took longer than expected to implement the program (PCR,
paras. 5.09-5.10, Annex 4). In retrospect, it would have been desirable
to have training experts prepare the program before the loan, taking into
consideration these major difficulties. The Sixth Highway Project has ap-
parently had similar difficulties but toward the end of its implementation,
the Bank's Economic Development Institute (EDI) helped to formulate a pro-
gram which overcame the earlier difficulties. This course, recently held
at Zagreb, focussed largely on transport economics and was given in Serbo-
Croatian or in English with translation into Serbo-Croatian. One of the
basic course materials was the "Guidelines for the Preparation of Feasi-
bility Studies". The roads organizations with whom the audit mission met



considered this course a success and that the adaptation to language con-
straints, length of training and use of familiar materials facilitated
this good result.
2. Realignment of Roads
13.       On two of the project roads, social and environmental considera-
tions prompted design changes and alteration of alignment. These changes
were made on the access road of the Kicevo-St. Razmo Road located in and
financed by the Republic of Macedonia and on the Hoce-Levec (Arja Vas) Road
in Slovenia.
14.       On the Kicevo-St. Razmo access road, a small section was realigned
when excavation uncovered a Roman building with well preserved mosaics. The
cost of realigning the road about 100 m westward was small and the mosaics
were covered with sand to preserve them during the winter months and until
they can be further explored.
15.       About 6.5 km of the Hoce-Levec Road was realigned through Arja
Vas to preserve a rich agricultural area producing hops (Annex 2). The re-
alignment of this road which increased its length by 2 km was not anticipated
at appraisal when based on feasibility and detailed engineering, the least
cost solution was selected and agreed upon. It was only when construction
began that about 100 farmers contested the alignment and its destruction of
the environment. Individual farmers claimed that it would take up to 10
years for them to plant and regain fully mature hops plants. To accommodate
these circumstances, the alignment was moved.
16.       Agreement on alignment and acquisition of right-of-way has posed
difficulties under a number of Bank-financed highway projects in Yugoslavia
(para. 2). This difficulty is not an uncommon one but it does pose partic-
ular problems in Yugoslavia where many of the Bank-financed roads have been
located in populated areas. Land is generally privately owned with few
large tracts so negotiations for right-of-way must be undertaken with many
individuals. Moreover, the appellate procedure which is carried out at the
local level with marginal possibility for federal government intervention
is complicated and time-consuming. One factor which may diminish this dif-
ficulty in the future is a new law passed in 1976 whereby road alignment is
published after the completion of preliminary engineering. Communes, urban
committees and interested individuals may then present modifications and re-
commendations after which a construction certificate is approved and de-
tailed engineering may then begin. In addition, the appraisal team could
carefully review the timing of land acquisition. For roads where land ac-
quisition could be expected to take several months, such acquisition could
be made a condition of disbursement. However, in cases where land acquisi-
tion will require longer, it might be a better proposition to exclude the
road from the project and defer it to a future project.



- 6 -
3. Traffic Data and Demand Forecasting
17.       Traffic on the Hoce-Levec (Arja Vas) and Postojna-Razdrto roads,
which are located in the Republic of Slovenia and provide access to Austria
and Italy over old amber routes dating back to 300 B.C., did not materialize
as expected. Traffic fell short of the projection by 44% and 38%, respec-
tively, contributing to much lower rates of return. In the instance of the
Postojna-Razdrto Road, the PCR points out (para. 6.15) and the Roads Organi-
zation of Slovenia agrees, that because of low traffic volume the road should
have been constructed in stages and a two-lane road built rather than the
four-lane facility constructed. The reasons for the overestimation of traf-
fic on these roads at appraisal seem to be inadequate base traffic data,
insufficient origin/destination studies and possibly too optimistic growth
assumptions.
18.       Unrealistic traffic forecasts in Yugoslavia have not been limited
to this highway project; a similar problem was experienced in previous proj-
ects. Of 13 road sections financed by the Third, Fourth and Fifth Highway
Projects, traffic on seven has fallen short of the appraisal expectation by
22%-71%, and recent traffic on five of these roads is actually lower than
when the projects were appraised. Traffic on five of the 13 sections has
exceeded the appraisal estimate by 24%--122%, and on only one of the roads
has traffic volume been in line with the appraisal expectation. The main
reason given in the Project Performance Audit Reports of these projects
for the shortfall in traffic is inadequate origin/destination surveys which
would help determine the volume of traffic likely to use these new roads
rather than old, unimproved alignments. The main reasons for the greater
than expected traffic are increased economic activity and tourism in the
road's zones of influence.
19.       In the case of the Fifth Highway Project, it seems that the base
traffic figures were inaccurate and the growth rate assumed was overly op-
timistic. Traffic data for only five preceding years were available which
showed 15% per annum rate of growth. Such a short period of observation
and what appear to be only sporadic checks did not give an adequate basis
for discerning a trend of growth.
20.       The appraisal mission recognized the need for further Improve-
ments in traffic collection and data analysis and included in the loan
196 traffic counters representing about 68% of the cost of equipment. One
road organization which the audit mission visited felt this equipment had
been most useful and had enabled 24-hour counts to be taken on major roads
whereas before counts were taken on these roads 14 times a year.
4. Imposition of Tolls
21.       In a side letter, the Republic of Slovenia agreed that tolls
would not be levied on the Hoce-Levec Road until it was raised to four-
lane standard unless the Bank should agree and that any toll on this road
or on the Postojna-Razdrto Road would be introduced experimentally so as



not to prevent the diversion of traffic from the old road. In mid-1976,
as the two-lane Hoce-Levec Road nearcd completion, Slovenia requested
that the Bank approve its plan to raise a toll on this road. In fact,
an earlier Bank supervision mission had noted that toll booths were be-
ing constructed on the road. Slovenia's analysis of the Hoce-Levec Road
which the Bank found satisfactory indicated that traffic would not be im-
peded anI that the economic benefits would not be affected. The Bank
therefore agreed to the toll provided that the traffic development on the
road would be monitored so that the level of toll could be adjusted if
traffic diversion to the old road occurred. While the PCR indicates (para.
6.08) that traffic studies are being undertaken on the Hoce-Levec Road,
the audit mission was told that no special survey had been started.
22.       Slovenia's objective in levying tolls is to increase its revenue
for construction and maintenance by charging the users of its roads. These
revenues are also raised through fuel and vehicle taxes, community partici-
pation aad loans; but the first two methods are shared with the federal
government.  As 90% of European traffic passes through Slovenia bound for
other republics and does not remain in Slovenia, the imposition of a toll
is felt to be important in charging those who contribute to the need to
maintain the road. However, in spite: of the agreement, the traffic on this
road is not currently monitored and this makes it impossible to determine
if other methods of raising revenue might be more effective, nor is it pos-
sible to determine how much traffic using the old road might divert to the
toll facility if the toll was reducec or eliminated.
IV. Conclusions
23.       The Fifth Highway Project was completed with a time overrun of
50% and a cost overrun of 19%.   The rates of return on project roads range
between 9% ard 30% in spite of higher costs and lower traffic on two roads,
Equipmenc procured under the loan waEs received but in one province it has
not yet been installed. This matter is being pursued by Projects staff,
The institution-building efforts of the project were for the most part suc-
cessful. The "Guidelines for the Preparation of Feasibility Studies" has
been well received, largely because of its consideration of local factors,
while the implementation of the trailting component has met with less suc-
cess because it was not carefully prcpared and did not take into account
local constraints. As a result of this, 44% fewer staff months of train-
ing were accomplished than had been allowed for during negotiations.
24.       Two points of special notice occurring under this and two previ-
ous highway projects in Yugoslavia are the difficulty in acquiring right-
of-way and the shortfall in traffic resulting from inadequate base traf-
fic data and possibly optimistic forecasting. Delays in acquiring the
right-of-way might be minimized by careful study at appraisal to deter-
mine the length of time which might be required; on roads where right-of-
way could be completed in several months, land acquisition could be a con-
dition of disbursement, but in cases where land acquisition is expected to
take longer, the road could be deferred to a future project.



- 8 -
25.       Finally, a toll was levied on one of the project roads and the
Borrower agreed to monitor the impact of this toll to determine if traf-
fic was affected by it. The impact of the toll has not been monitored
and thus it is not known whether or not the toll prevents potential traf-
fic to divert from alternative, free facilities.
26.       Overall, this project has been successful and the Bank and Bor-
rowers are generally pleased with the results. One sub-Borrower did ex-
press some apprehension over the increasing cost of borrowing from the
Bank due to exchange rate fluctuations. This is a situation which the
Bank has been studying for some time.



- 9 -                     ANNEX 1
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
YUGOSLAVIA FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 751-YU)
Currencies Disbursed and their Dollar Equivalents
Rate of
US$ Equivalent  Exchange           US$ equivalent
Currency     at time of       (US$ Equivalent)   as of
Currency                Amount       Disbursement    as of 12/31/77 /a 12/31/77 /a
U.S. Dollars            8.18           8.].7          1.00               8.17
Belgian Francs         44.80           1.04          32.94               1.36
Netherlands Guilders     .05            .02           2.28               0.02
Norwegian Kroner         .04            .006          5.14               0.007
Pounds Sterling          .01            .03           0.52               0.02
Venezuelan Bolivares   16.95           3.94           4.29               3.95
Lebanese Pounids        1.29            .53           3.06               0.42
Austrian Schillings     1.73            .09          15.13               0.11
Japanese Yen       2,512.23            8.64         240.00              10.47
Deutsche Mark           7.69           3.22           2.Q1               3.64
Swiss Francs           9.59            3.40           2.00              4.79
Saudi Arabian Riyals   5.76            1.62           3.50              1.64
Libyan Dinars            .61           2.06           0.29               2.10
Kuwaiti Dinars           .48           1.63           0.28               1.71
U.A.E. Dirhamis         2.37           0.59           3.89               0.60
Total                              35.00                             39.00
/a End of period.



-10-                 ANNEX 2
PROJECT PERFORMANC& A&TDT-T MEMORANDUM  ANNEX 2
YUGOSiAVIA FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 751-YU
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
Alignment of the Hoce-Levec (Arja Vas) Road
0~~~
' 0                      A.
0   0                                              7~~~
*     ~~0
; , ,           5~~~CAL£ 1:50 ,ooo
Exl5TIr1C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~~I Ro0s'
-      E~sriN  %OaLS'croRD                     t
_-_    1IT G^#|PdpJkCR goIqpR geeErsAofcTR
-. -*-. VARIArrT-s FoR iFar'RE ETir1rSIoio



ATTACHMENT
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 751-YU)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Bank was first involved in Yugoslavia's highways subsector in
1962 with Loan 344-YU, financing the First Highway Project (US$35 million)
under which the coastal section of the Adriatic Highway was completed as well
as parts of the Belgrade-Nis road. This project was completed satisfactorily
and was followed in 1967 by Loan 485-YU (US$10.0 million) for a Second High-
way Project which financed the improvement of about 370 km of roads connecting
the main Zagreb-Belgrade highway with that Adriatic highway via Sarajevo and
Tuzla. This project also was satisfactorily completed.
1.02      Government then made a reassessment of its highway needs, and in
1968 submitted a construction program to the Bank for consideration as possi-
ble projects. The first two tranches of this program were financed under the
Third and Fourth Highway Projects (Loans 608-YU and 678-YU), both of which
were completed satisfactorily, and the third and final tranche was financed
under the Fifth Highway Project in respect of which this report is being
submitted.
1.03      The information on which this report is based was obtained from the
Project Appraisal Report (PTR73a of May 19, 1971), a review of Bank files
and discussions with the officials concerned of the Yugoslav Government orga-
nizations responsible for project execution.
II. SECTOR BACKGROUND
2.01      Two main factors have influenced the development pattern of
Yugoslavia's transport network. First, topography has dictated the use of
the broad river valleys as transportation corridors, with the result that the
country's principal road/rail links follow the fertile Sava/Danube flood plains
on an approximate northwest to southeast alignment. The southern and coastal
mountains have proved formidable and costly obstacles to transport development
in the transverse direction and it is the misfortune of some of the less-
developed regions of Yugoslavia that they have the added burden of expensive
access routes either to the coast or to the hinterland.
2.02      Secondly, for historical reasons, the northwestern and central
regions of the country achieved levels of development in some sectors, trans-
port included, on a par with western Europe. On the other hand, but for the
same reasons, in the poorer regions to the south the pace of development was
much slower.



- 12 -
2.03      Moreover, Yugoslavia's geographical location is such that it is an
important cross-roads in the European transport system. It provides access to
the sea for many of its northern neighbors, and is as well an important link
in the east/west route between Europe and the Middle East.
2.04      Small wonder, then, that transport is a dynamic sector of the
Yugoslav economy. The system is well diversified; there are seven major ports,
nearly 11,000 km of rail lines, 90,000 kin of roads, 15 airports (10 catering
for international flights) and a sizeable network of inland waterways. Gov-
ernment's broad aim is to ensure the balanced development of all modes of
transport to meet the needs not only of Yugoslavia's own market-oriented
economy, but to improve the country's integration with the world economy.
The attainmetnt of regional balance in economic development has also been an
explicit objective of the Government. Increasingly emphasized is the improve-
ment of transport links between the economically advanced and the less devel-
oped Republics and Provinces and within the less developed areas.
2.05      However, improvements to the highway network have not kept pace with
the growth of road traffic. Many roads are by modern standards inadequately
designed both in geometry and pavement capability. With high traffic volumes,
unacceptable levels of traffic congestion often result. In general most of
the roads are inadequate for the traffic they are now carrying.
III. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
3.01      In October 1968 a Bank mission visited Yugoslavia to appraise the
Third Highway Project. Government submitted to the mission a list of 13 sec-
tions of major roads totalling about 630 km in length and estimated at 1968
prices to cost about US$275 million. Planning for most of this was well
advanced and final designs were expected to be ready early in 1970. However,
only three of these sections were included in the Third Highway Project, under
which they were built satisfactorily. A further six sections were financed
under the subsequent Fourth Highway Project. Their construction, also, was
accomplished satisfactorily.
3.02      The remaining road sections were carried forward to this Fifth High-
way Project. Their feasibility studies and designs were undertaken by the
highway organizations of the Republics and Provinces assisted by the Design
Institute of Belgrade and the Materials Testing Institute of Belgrade.
3.03      For the first time a highways project in Yugoslavia contained ele-
ments other than highway construction. In this case the project consisted of
four main components: highway construction, purchases of engineering and
laboratory equipment (mainly traffic counters and vehicle weighing scales),
consulting services to assist in providing improved and standardized method-
ologies for project preparation, economic evaluation, traffic engineering,
and some aspects of highway design and maintenance, and provision for selected
staff from the highways administrations to undertake training courses outside
Yugoslavia.



- 13 -
3.04      The project loan was originally programmed at US$30.0 million.    In
its October 12, 1970 Back-to-Office Report, the Appraisal Mission recommended
a loan of US$36.0 million, but on refinement of project cost estimates and fur-
ther discussion with Government, the loan amount was fixed at US$35.0 million.
3.05      The project identified was the project appraised and built (with a
minor alignment change in the Slovenian section (4.09)). There were no changes
in composition. From project appraisal to loan signature the project: was pro-
cessed without delay; there were no difficulties in increasing the loan amount
from $30.0 to $35.0 million.
3.06      Thus, in little less than three years from Government's initial re-
quest in July 1968, three loans had been signed supporting the total ty of its
proposed road construction program; the Third Road Loan for US$30.0 million on
June 5, 1969, the Fourth for US$40.0 million on May 28, 1970, and the Fifth for
US$35.0 million on June 18, 1971.
3.07      From completion of appraisal to its Board presentation less than
eight months; elapsed. As loan negotiations were not completed until mid-April
it would not: have been practicable to advance the Board presentation date from
June 10.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
A.   General
4.01      The civil works element of the project comprised the construction of
five highway sections in two Republics (Macedonia and Slovenia) and one Auton-
omous Province (Kosovo) of Yugoslavia (Map IBRD 3165R1). These road sections
are:
Project Highway                   Republic/Province         Executing Agency
Skopje-Tetovo             36 km     Macedonia            Road Fund of Macedonia
Kocevo-St. Razmo          54 km     Macedonia            Road Fund of Macedonia
Postojna-Razdrto           9 km     Slovenia             Road Fund of Slovenia
Hoce-Levec                49 km     Slovenia             Road Fund of Slovenia
Kosovo Polje-Pristina      5 km     Kosovo               Road Maintenance Enter-
prise of Kosovo
4.02      All five sections are parts of important trunk highways.    The two
sections in Macedonia completed to modern paved standards the "Western Road"
linking Skopje to the Albanian and Greek borders via Tetovo-Gostivar-Kicevo
and St. Razmo (Ohrid). *The Bank financed another section Gostivar-Kicevo
under the Third Highway Project.
4.03      In Slovenia the two project sections are part of the European High-
way E93, an important route for international freight transit and tourism, and
which provides access to Austria (Vienna) and Italy (Trieste). It also serves



- 14 -
extra works. In Kosovo the work was accomplished within the estimate. In
Slovenia, however, inflation and a prolongation of the construction period,
together with considerble extra works resulted in a 44% cost overrun.
D.   Quality of Completed Work
4.14      Workmanship was good throughout and supervision by the highway
authorities concerned assisted by their design institutes was satisfactory.
E.   Equipment Procurement
4.15       The loan provided $1.7 million for the procurement of traffic
counters, vehicle weighing scales, pavement evaluators and other engineering
equipment to assist the Republics and Provinces to improve their collection
of traffic data, controlling vehicle weights, and preparing highway projects.
The authority for procurement was delegated to the Council of Roads Organiza-
tions (CRO), Ljubljana, a body representing all Republic and Provincial high-
way authorities.
4.16       CRO coordinated the equipment requirements of all the Republics
and Provinces, arranged for prequalification of suppliers where large numbers
of particular items were needed (traffic counters, etc.), and entered into
contracts with suppliers.
4.17       Procurement by international competitive bidding resulted in the
contract awards shown in Annex 3.
F.   Consulting Services
4.18       The project provided US$550,000 for the services of consultants
for:
(a)  reviewing current procedures, methods, and expertise of the
Republics and Provinces used in the preparation of highway
investment projects, and estab:Lishing uniform guidelines for
the preparation by the Republics and Provinces of prefeasi-
bility studies and feasibility studies, including uniform
criteria and representative exaumples for the collection and
processing of basic information such as vehicle operating
costs, traffic data, highway construction and maintenance
costs;
(b) preparing a research program to further improve essential
items of information required in feasibility studies;
(c) assisting the institutions in carrying out equipment pro-
curement, and the program of staff training abroad; and
(d) assisting the Republics and Provinces, at their request:



- 15 -
the Adriatic ports of Rijeka and Koper. The section Postojna-Razdrto extended
the construction of the Vrhnika-Postojna section financed under the Third High-
way Project.
4.04       The road section in Kosovo closed the only gap in the new paved road
between Pristina and Pec. Construction of two other sections of this route
were financed under the Fourth Project, which excluded this last section be-
cause the economic and engineering studies had not been completed.
B.   Execution of Civil Works
4.05       The loan became effective on June 2, 1972, nine months later than
the anticipated September 30, 1971 date. The terminal date for effectiveness
was postponed four times: -to November 30, 1971, February 28, 1972, May 31,
and finally to June 12. The need for repeated postponements stemmed primarily
from constitutional changes within Government which required new ratification
procedures.
4.06      However, in the meantime procurement was going ahead; prequalifica-
tion of contractors was proceeding and bidding arrangements were in hand.
Annex I gives details of project execution. Invitations for contractors to
prequalify for the proposed works were issued on May 13, 1971 with deadline
for submission of data at June 30, 1971.
Slovenia
4.07      Hoce-Levec Section and Postojna-Razdrto:     These two roads were
divided into five bidding sections for highway construction (four for Hoce-
Levec and one for Postojna-Razdrto) with two additional contracts, one for
structure and one for the tunnels on the former route.     Bids for these works
closed on January 12, 1972 and the evaluating committee issued its report on
March 21, 1972.   Eleven contractors (nine Yugoslav, one German and one
Italian) were prequalified for the highway works; eight contractors (six
Yugoslav and the same two foreign firms) were prequalified for the structures
contract; and four Yugoslav firms and three foreign contractors (two German
and one Italian) were prequalified for the tunnels contract.
4.08       For the road coisitruction contracts, documents were taken by seven
of the nine prequalified Yugoslav contractors and both foreign contractors,
but bids were submitted by only six of the Yugoslav firms. Contracts were
awarded to the low bidders in each case (Annex 1). Government's evaluation
was received in the Bank on April 5, 1972, and the Bank cabled its "nio objec-
tion" to the proposed awards on April 7. By July 1, 1972 the contractors
were mobilizing on site. So that work on the main project contracts could
start without undue delay, the Bank agreed at the time of appraisal that two
contracts for preparatory works--site clearance, drainage, etc., should be
awarded after local competitive bidding. The tunnel contract was awarded to
a Yugoslav contractor in joint venture with an Italian firm.



- 16 -
4.09       The Postojna-Razdrto section was satisfactorily completed with a
three month time over-run due mainly to wet weather delays. However, the
Hoce-Levec section had more serious problems. Firstly, land acquisition
difficulties at the southern end of the project precluded constructing the
road to Levec as planned. The alignment of the section Hoce-Hudinja (45 km)
remained unchanged, but from Hudinja to the new terminal at Arja Vas, the
length of road increased by 2 km to avoid prime agricultural land. Thus, the
realigned route Hoce-Arja Vas had a total length of 51 km compared with the
appraised project, Hoce-Levec, of 49.4 lkm. Secondly, because of lower reve-
nues from gasoline taxes than anticipated, the administration had a local
financing problem resulting in reduced cash flows, and had to slow down the
pace of construction. Cost increases resulted from the extended construction
period in acddition to the greater length of road (see Annexes).
4.10       Supervision over the construction works was satisfactorily exercised
by engineers and technicians from the Roads Administration assisted by the
Institute for Materials and Construction Research, Ljubljana, the Geological
Institute, Ijubljana and other specialized organizations.
Macedonia
4.11       The evaluation of bids for the four contracts in Macedonia was re-
ceived in the Bank on February 28, 1972 and the Bank's "no-objection"' cable
to award of contracts was sent on March .3. Contracts were signed on March 20
and work commenced at the end of May. Delays in project execution which caused
increased costs were primarily the additional works needed to stabilize slide-
prone terrain, such as flattening cut slopes, construction of retaining walls,
etc. The work was completed satisfactorily and was adequately supervised by
staff of the Roads Administration.
Kosovo
Pristina-Kosovo Polje Road
4.12       Four of the six prequalified contractors submitted bids, which
closed on January 19, 1972. The low bidder, Partizanski Put, Belgrade, was
awarded the contract, to which the Bank concurred by cable on March 3, 1972.
Work started in July 1972 and should have been completed 11 months later.
However, delays in the supplies of construction materials such as cement,
bitumen, etc. as well as fuels, held up the works. A severe winter in 1973
also added to project delays. Although by December 1973 the road was sub-
stantially completed and open to traffic, road signs, stripping and general
site clearance had not been carried out. Work to completion proceeded slowly
while price escalation to the mutual agreement of both client and contractor
was being negotiated. The Highway Institute, Belgrade, exercised supervi-
sion over the contract, and performed satisfactorily.
C.   Costs
4.13       Construction costs increased by an average 34% (Annex 2).     Increases
in Macedonia were marginal and could be accounted for by inflation and some



- 17 -
(i)  in reviewing the status of preparation of a
selected group of major highway projects and
a preliminary evaluation of the additional work
and assistance required to complete the feasi-
bility studies and other relevant studies to be
carried out in connection with such projects, as
well as a preliminary evaluation of the economic
priority of such projects;
(ii)  either in supervising or in carrying out the prepa-
ration of the feasibility studies and other relevant
studies referred to under paragraph (d)(i) above,
especially with respect to the application of the
guidelines referred to under paragraph (a) above; and
(iii)  in reviewing and revis.ing as necessary the guidelines
referred to in paragraph (a) above on the basis of
the experience gained during the preparation of
the feasibility studies referred to under paragraph
(d)(ii) above.
4.19      Four consulting firms expressed interest in the work and submitted
proposals for it. They were:
(a) BCEOM, Paris, France
(b) KAMPSAX, Copenhagen, Denmark
(c) DORSCH-BERGER, Munich, Germany/East Orange, U.S.A.
(d) ITALCONSULT, Rome, Italy
The Council of Road Organizations evaluated the proposals and recommended on
April 14, 1972 that the work be awarded to the Dorsch-Berger joint venture.
The Bank had no objection to this choice, but made some comments on staffing.
Negotiations with the consultant took place on May 29, 1972 and the CRO ap-
proved the contract on July 20. After an interchange of cables clarifying
some clauses of che proposed contract, the Bank cabled its no objection on
August 15, 1972, and a contract was signed on September 8, 1972.
4.20      The Dorsch/Berger Association discharged their commitments satis-
factorily. All equipment has been received and is in use. The Bank also
agreed to the purchase by CRO of a one-fifteenth share of a CDC 6400 computer
system at a cost of $200,000.00. The computer has been used extensively on
such operations as network analyses, traffic projections, etc.
4.21      The "Guidelines for Preparation of Highway Feasibility Studies"
which was their principal work was finalized after discussions with the
Government and the Bank and has been instrumental in raising to a uniform
level the quality of studies prepared for the Bank throughout Yugoslavia.



- 18 -
4.22       The consultant also assisted Government in both preparing feasibil-
ity studies for highway works and reviewing studies already completed by Gov-
ernment agencies. Again the results have been satisfactory--indeed some of
the routes studied have been included in Bank-financed projects.
4.23       Assistance in other areas was also given--preparation of staff-
training seminars in Yugoslavia and abroad, assistance in the bidding for
equipment being procured under the loan, assistance in computer programming,
etc.
4.24       All told, the relationship with the consultant was a fruitful one.
The CRO's principal comment, with hindsight, is that it was a pity that some
Republics and Provinces did not avail themselves more fully of the consul-
tants' services when they were available under the loan.
G.   Loan Covenants
4.25      As in the Fourth Highway Project, one principal covenant (5.01)
obligated the Borrower to enter into Subsidiary Loan Agreements with the
subsidiary borrowers for the purpose of relending loan funds.
4.26       Because highway administration had been decentralized in 1967 and
the responsibility for public roads removed from the Federal Government and
vested in the Republican and Provincial Administration, there was no central
highways agency to exercise supervising and coordinating functions for the
project. Rather than have three separate loan agreements with the two Repub-
lics and one Autonomous Province concerned, the Yugoslav Investment Bank again
agreed to act as the Borrower's representative and as coordinator in matters
relating to project execution. Government thus entered into subsidiary loan
agreements with each of the three administrations. This procedure, used
successfully in the execution of the Third and Fourth Projects, was also effec-
tive for the Fifth Project.
4.27       In order that the optimum use be made of the project roads as soon
as possible after their completion, Section 4.02 (a)(viii) of the Loan Agree-
ment obligated Government to the construction, improvement and maintenance of
access and/or connecting roads to those built under the project. These re-
quirements were satisfactorily met.
V. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
5.01      In 1967 a fundamental change took place in Yugoslavia's highway
administration. As part of a government-wide effort to decentralize decision-
making, most of the responsibilities of the Federal Government in the transport
sector were delegated to the Republics and Provinces. These in turn involved
the concerned organizations and "Communities of Interest" in sectoral discus-
sions and decisions. Although an objective of this devolution was to ensure
that the wider participation would bring with it more broadly based decisions



- 19 -
on transport-related questions, having a larger number of decision makers has
caused coordination of such issues on a national basis to become a major dif-
ficulty.
5.02      In an attempt to improve this situation the Bank has promoted the
establishment of:
(i) the Council of Republican and Provincial Roads Organizations
(CRO);
(ii)  the Federal Committee for Transport and Communications; and
(iii)  the Secretariats or Committees for Transport in the Republics
and Provinces.
5.03       In 1971 the Road Funds, Councils and Enterprises of the Republics
and Provinces established the CRO, which has become instrumental in stand-
ardizing engineering design criteria, data collection and other technical
matters countrywide. For the first time within this project, the CRO has
had a concrete role to play by becoming the procurement agent for the engi-
neering equipment purchased under the project, the instigator and coordinator
of the loan financed training arrangements, and the employer and coordinator
of the Dorsch/Berger consulting group which provided technical assistance to
the roads administrations countrywide.
5.04      Under the Fifth Project, therefore, a concerted effort was made to
improve the quality of the highway administrations through exposing selected
staff to modern techniques and practices in highway administrations in other
countries, providing equipment needed to furnish data on their own highway
systems, and by providing consultants to standardize methodologies country-
wide for the preparation of economic and technical studies related to highway
development.
5.05      The fruits of this institutional development are evident in the
greatly improved quality of project preparation in subsequent Yugoslav high-
way loans.
5.06      However, further improvements are still needed.     For example, the
precise responsibilities within the transport sector of the Federal and the
Republican/Provincial Governments have not been clearly defined. Moreover,
the status of the CRO is in the process of change. It currently lacks the
legal authority to play a fully effective role in coordinated highway planning,
and its future is unclear.
5.07      The core issue of countrywide transport coordination is being
addressed in the Eighth Highway Project, which includes studies by consul-
tants of road - user charges and of rail costs. These studies, when completed
towards the end of 1979, should assist in identifying where and to what extent
subsidies may exist in the two modes, and assist in optimizing the use of exist-
ing assets as well as providing a basis for formulating policies on road/rail
coordination.



- 20 -
5.08       Institutional development remains an important objective of Bank
highway lending in Yugoslavia.
Staffing Training
5.09      Although considerable expertise on highway matters was available
in Yugoslavia, experience was still limited in specific fields such as trans-
portation economics, traffic engineering and some aspects of highway design
and maintenance. To improve their expertise, the Road Organizations were
interested in sending about 114 engineers and economists on training courses
abroad for 2-4 months duration. In all 67 candidates completed their train-
ing of 2-4 months duration under this program on different subjects (Annex 4)
in various countries. In addition another 44 candidates participated in
shorter seminars in highway engineering and traffic surveys abroad.
5.10      Progress regarding the staff training program abroad under the Fifth
Highway Project was slow owing largely to language difficulties because suffi-
cient number of candidates proficient in English were not forthcoming. This
was particularly so for training in transport economics. Based on this expe-
rience a training program is now being arranged in Yugoslavia and in collabora-
tion with EDI staff which can be undertaken in both English and Serbo-Croatian.
The proposed training program will lay special emphasis in providing economists
with training in transportation and in the preparation of feasibility studies.
VI. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A.   General
6.01      The main objective of the project was to reduce the cost of trans-
port and relieve congestion on five main highway sections: Skopje-Tetovo
Kicevo-St. Razmo (Ohrid), Postojna-Razdrto, Hoce-Levec, and Kosovo Polje-
Pristina. The two sections in Macedonia helped to complete the link from
Skopje to the Albanian and Greek borders to modern paved standard and assisted
in the development of agriculture, forest, mining and tourism potentials of
the area. The two project sections in Slovenia are part of the European
Highway E93, which affords access to Austria and Italy and serves the Adriatic
ports of Koper and Rijeka. These two sections in Slovenia are the two princi-
pal components of the entire project and together they account for about 80%
of the total construction costs.
B.   Traffic
6.02      The average daily traffic volumes on the project road sections as
estimated at appraisal and from actual counts and latest estimates are shown
in Annex 5.



- 21 -
Skopje-Titovo Section (S.R. Macedonia)
6.03      Average actual traffic (1975) on the Skopje-Tetovo section is close
to the appraisal forecast and the percentage of heavy commercial vehicles
(trucks and buses) works out to be about 35 percent of the total AADT.
Kicevo-St. Razmo (Ohrid) (S.R. Macedonia)
6.04      On the Kicevo-St. Razmo section the average daily traffic (1975)
was more than double the appraisal estimate. The project road has reduced
the distance of through traffic between Skopje-Ohrid from 199 km to 144 km.
The Lake Ohrid and its environs are becoming important tourist centers at a
much faster rate than anticipated at the time of appraisal.
Postojna-Razdrto (S.R. Slovenia)
6.05       The actual traffic on Postojna-Razdrto section is lower than the
estimated volume by about 40%. Apparently, the appraisal assessment of the
prospect of traffic was somewhat optimistic. But it is difficult to determine
to what extent the overestimation of traffic on the Postojna-Razdrto section
could have been avoided. At appraisal, the trend of growth of traffic for the
preceding few years exceeded 15% per annum. The region the road traversed,
served one of the most developed regions in Yugoslavia and was expected to
continue to grow, so that the ''r-i-Il forecast of about 10% traffic growth
per annum for the succeeding period during the seventies and thereafter at a
declining rate, to about 5% in the nineties would not seem unreasonable. How-
ever, reduction of traffic on Postojna-Razdrto section (from 8,400 in 1970 to
7,021 in 1973) indicates the likely margin of uncertainty in the base traffic
figure provided during appraisal. Further origin-destination studies at
appraisal indicated that over 75% of the traffic would divert to the new
facility, while less than 25% would remain on the existing road. But the
actual traffic data, revealed that about 30% of the total traffic was still
using the old road in 1975 (Annex 6). However, the new road section Postojna-
Razdrto has not been in operation for sufficient time for traffic patterns
to stabilize and it may be necessary to watch the situation for some more time
especially in view of the fact that in the adjoining section, Vhrnika-Postojna
which was opened to traffic about 2 years earlier, the growth of traffic on
the new facility improved substantiallv with time.
6.06      Tolls are imposed on the project highway section in Slovenia.      The
tolls imposed on the entire section Vhrnika-Razdrto (40 km) are set out in
Annex 7. Detailed traffic investigations were carried out on the Vhrnika-
Postojna section in 1974 to investigate why the road users take the old
road instead of the new one. The analysis of data has shown that about 12%
of all old road users take this road instead of the new facility because of
the toll and the balance of the traffic on the old road is predominantly
local traffic.



- 22 -
Hoce-Levec (S.R. Slovenia)
6.07       Average actual traffic (1976) on Hoce-Levec section is lower than
the estimated volume by about 50%. Traffic on the old Hoce-Levec road amounted
in 1970 to about 5,300 vehicles per day and it was expected to grow at about
the same rate as on the Postojna-Razdrto section. Apparently the appraisal
assessment of the prospect for traffic growth on this highway section was again
somewhat more optimistic. Further on the basis of origin-destination studies
it was assumed that about 70% of the traffic would divert to the new highway,
while 30%, mainly local traffic, would remain on the old road. But the actual
traffic data revealed that about 36% of the total traffic, mainly local traf-
fic, was still using the old road in 1976 when the new facility was opened
to traffic.
6.08       Initial understanding was that tolls should not be levied until this
highway was widened to four lanes. However, the government decided to intro-
duce tolls on completion of the first stage of construction because substantial
benefits would accrue to road users even at this stage since the new facility
was about 12% (6 km) shorter in length than the existing road and was being
built with considerably better design standards such as improved geometrics
and cross-section, emergency lanes, climbing lanes, and grade-separated
crossings as the first stage of the final four-lane expressway. The express-
way even in its first stage would, therefore, offer a considerably higher
level of service than the old road and it was expected that the levy of toll
at a reasonable level on the two-lane expressway was not likely to result in
any appreciable traffic diversion to the available free road. Further it
was considered that if there was no toll regime on the two-lane expressway
section when relatively major benefits would accrue to the road users, the
introduction of toll at a later stage when the four-lane expressway would
be complete was likely to invite users' resistance because the incremental
benefits for individual road user at this stage would be comparatively small.
The authorities were, however, levying proportionately lower (about 70% of
the normal rate) tolls (Annex 7) on the two-lane highway which could be
appropriately increased to the extent necessary when the section was further
improved to a four-lane expressway. However, the authorities are carrying
out traffic studies to ascertain the extent of traffic diversion to the
toll-free road, and have agreed to maintain flexibility in the level of tolls
so that the economic viability of the new road is not impaired.
Kosovo Polje-Pristina (S.A.P. Kosovo)
6.09      The average actual traffic was about 27% higher (in 1975) than
the anticipated volume mainly due to the more favourable development of local
traffic at the outskirts of Pristina, the capital of Kosovo.
C.   Economic Benefits/Costs
6.10      The principal benefits derived from the project are savings in vehi-
cle operating costs. Vehicle operating costs by road sections are shown in



- 23 -
Annex 8, as estimated at appraisal and as revi-ed on the basis of updated
operating cost information available for the year 1975/76. The figures show
that average vehicle operating costs, and therefore, savings, have increased
by about 95% from 1971 to 1975 and by another 14% from 1975 to 1976. This
increase is partly due to inflation and partly to the marked producer price
increases in petroleum products. The economic costs of construction of the
three project roads, namely, Kicevo-St. Razmo, Postojna-Razdrto and Hoce-Levec
have increased by about 15%, 43% and 45% respectively as compared to appraisal
estimates, while the costs of the other two project roads, namely, Skopje-
Tetovo and Kosovo Polje-Pristina compared favorably with the appraisal esti-
mates. In the ex-post economic justification, actual project costs and
estimated benefits in current prices of each year have been adjusted to
eliminate the likely effect of inflation.
D.   Economic Return
6.11      The rates of return of the project road sections are shown in Annex
9, as estimated at appraisal and as revised on the basis of updated traffic
and vehicle operating cost information.    The Annex shows that the revised
estimated economic returns (ER), excluding benefits due to savings of
passenger time, for the three road sections, namely, Skopje-Tetovos Kicevo-
St. Razmo and Kosovo Polje-Pristina are higher than the appraisal estimates
and are varying between 23% and 30% confirming clearly the overall economic
justification of these three subprojects.
6.12      The rates of return at appraisal for the Postojna-Razdrta and Hoce-
Levec sections were projected at 16% and 15% respectively but the revised
rates of return using the same methodology are 10% and 9%. The revised rates
of return exclude important benefits such as passenger time savings and
decongestion savings on the old roads. If the benefits from the time savings
are included, the rates of return on the Postojna-Razdrto and Hoce-Levec
sections are satisfactory at 12% and 15% respectively. Although time savings
were not included in the project justification at appraisal, such savings are
important benefits on expressways such as these, especially on Hoce-Levec
(Arja Vas) section (51 km) which avoids the old narrow road passing through
numerous villages in mountainous terrain with considerable roadside friction
caused by animal drawn vehicles. The methodology used for computing time
savings is similar to that used in the Eighth Highway Project in Yugoslavia.
The other benefits arising from decongestion savings would further improve the
rates of return on all the roads but have not been included due to lack of
adequate information.
6.13      The lower than expected rates of return on the Postojna-Razdrto and
Hoce-Levec sections (using the appraisal methodology), result from the combined
effect of cost overruns and traffic underruns. The higher than expected rate
of return for the other three sections are explained by higher operational
cost savings and favorable development of traffic.
6.14      Not all the potential traffic that would have used the Postojna-
Razdrto and Hoce-Levec sections in the absence of tolls uses it. Such traffic



- 24 -
diversions, however, have been estimated only at about 12% of the u3ers' of
the old road. If all potential traffic would use the new facilities, the
present rates of return would be increased by about 1%. On-the-spot inspection
makes us suggest that the early phase of toll operation should be *ufficiently
flexible and adequately mon:tored so that adjustments in the toll system could
be made when necessary if appreciable traffic diversions and other anomalies
are detected.
6.15      In retrospect, in the light of the actual traffic situation the
construction of an initial two-lane facility for Postojna-Razdrto section on
the lines of Hoce-Levec section, with the addition of two more lanes after
about five years or so might have been a better proposition than constructing
the four-lane highway straightaway.
VII. THE ROLE OF THE BANK
7.01      The Bank's most significant effort in this project was directed
to the improvement of the highway agencies of the Republics/Provinces and
of the CRO. The technical assistance by consultants coupled with the data-
gathering equipment purchased and the training of selected highway personnel
has had an immediate and beneficial impact on the highway subsector as a
whole. The momentum of improvement has been suscained by technical assis-
tance and training elements in later highway projects.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
8.01       The project has been satisfactorily completed.    The civil works
component, the largest project element, has been executed well, due in part
to the competent supervision provided by the Borrowers' agencies. With the
exception of the Slovenian component, the project was executed essentially
on time and within the estimated costs. In Slovenia there were particular
problems of land acquisition and the need to slow down the pace of construc-
tion to meet the unforeseen resource constraints. In Macedonia and Kosovo,
construction of the project roads was clearly well justified. In Slovenia,
however, the construction of the two project roads is only marginally justi-
fied even if time savings are included, because of the increase in costs and
the shortfall in expected traffic flows. Both roads are now toll highways.
If tolls were eliminated the ER would increase by only about 1%. However,
the Borrower has been asked to maintain flexibility in the application of
tolls so that undue diversion of traffic from the new road is avoided.
In retrospect it would appear that a two-lane facility for Postojna-Razdrto
on the lines of the Hoce-Levec section, would have been the more prudent
choice than the four-lane divided road as constructed.
8.02      A new departure from the previous pattern of highway projects in
Yugoslavia was the inclusion of technical assistance by consultants, the



- 25 -
procurement of equipment needed to monitor the use of the Borrowers' highway
networks, and personnel training. All these elements have had a beneficial
effect on institutional development, and from the Bank's point of view have
had immediate and concrete results in the improved standards of project prepa-
ration, countrywide. Moreover, the systematic use of the traffic counting
equipment purchased under the loan continues to provide sounder bases for
traffic projections.
8.03      Although the training program experienced some problems, mainly
because of few prospective candidates were not sufficiently familiar with
the foreign language needed, the overall impact was beneficial and resulted
in a new awareness among the senior staff concerned of modern practices
in highway technologies and administration in Western Europe and the USA.



PROJECT COMfLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA:  FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 751-YU)
Actual and Planned Project Execution
Date of      Date      Contract  Actual                        % Completed
Contract     Work       Period   Period                         by Planned
Civil Works Component               Contractor            Award      Started      (mo.)    (mo.)    Planned   Actual        Date
A 1. Macedonia
(a) Skopje-Zelino             25.7  Tranit (07-543)    3/20/72     5/31/72      28       36       9/30/74   5/31/78       80
Zelino-Tetovo             10.6  Beton  (07-541)    5/31/72     5/31/72      28       36       9/30/74   5/31175       80
(b) Kicevo-Izdeglavji         31.1  Cranit (07-544)    5/31/72     5/31/72      28       36       9/30/74   5/31/75       80
IzdeglavJ±-St. Razmo      22,5  Granit (07-545)   5/31/72      5/31/72      28       36      9/30/74    5/31/75       80
2. Slovenia
(a) Postojna-Razdrto           8.8  Gradis/Slovenja
Ceste/Priinorje   6/15/72     6/15/72      26       29       7/31/74   9/14/7.       90
(b) Hoce Levec (Arja Vas)     50.96
Preparatory Works I            Drava Mura         6/1/71      6/1/71       16        38      9/30/72   7/31/74       42           0'
Preparatory Works ?            Savinja            6/1/71      b/1/71       16        38      9/30/72   7/31/74       42
Structures                     Gradis/Slovenja
Ceste/Primorje    6/26/72     6/26/72      40       48       9/30/78   7/21/76       85
Tunnels                        Rudis/I.Co.RI.     6/26/72     6/26/72      40        48      9/30/78   7/21/76        85
Road Construction              Gradis/Slovenja
Ceste/Primorje    6/26/72     6/26/72      40       48       9/30/75   7/21/76       85
3. Kosovo
Kosovo Polje-Pristina          5.0  Partizanski Put    7/1/72      7/1/72        11       35      5/28/73   5/31/75        32



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA: FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 751-YU)
Comparison of Actual Costs With Appraisal Estimates
1/                         Final Cost
Appraisal Estimate -          Bid                      2J                         3/Cost Differentials Z
Length  Local  Foreign        Total        Price     Local   Foreign -    Total        Bid Price   Final Cost Final Cost
Km     Din.    US$     Din.       US$     Din.      Din.     US$     Din.     tiSS    Estimate      Bid      Estimate -
I.  A. 1. Macedonia                                                                                                           (On basis of Dinar Values)
(a) Skopje-Zelino           25.7     108.78   3.22   157.14   10.43   108.265    60.024   2.262    96.812   5.954       141        89          99
Zelino-Tetovo           10.6                                       61.662    36.533    1.361   58.925   3.584                  96
(b) Kicevo-Izdeglavji       31.1       6      3.74   173.04   11.53   148.084    86.744   3.257  139.910    8.577                  94
Izdeglavji-St. Razmo    22.5     116.29                            64.236    37.530   1.420    60.532   3.736       160        94116
89.9    225.07   6.96   330.18   21.96    382.248   160.807   8.300  356.179  21.846        151        93        108
2. Slovenia
(a) Postojna-Razdrto         8.8     100.99  3.48    152.90   10.16   144.992   134.416   3.959  216.80    13.344       124       150        142
(b) Hoce Levec (Arja Vas)   50.96
Preparatory Works 1
Preparatory Works 2
Structures                      496.31  17.65   762.02   50.91   116.137   110.980   3.210   179.00   10.821                 154                    1
Tunnels                                                           96.139    93.000    2.615  150.00    8.815                  156
Road Construction                                                561.232   476.284   13.510  768.200  45.555                 137
773.508   680.264  19.341 1097.200   65.191       132       142         144        1
3. Kosovo
Kosovo PolJe-Pristina         5.0     13.03   0.52   21.10     1.37    20.893     13.057   0.476   21.060   1.254       129        101        100
Totals                      835.40  28.61 1266.2     84.40  1321.641   988.544   32.076 1691.239 101.635       136       128         134
II.       Engineering Equipment                        2.7    2.0    32.7      2.18     -           -      1.854   31.50    1.854
III.      Consulting Services                          9.4    0.62   18.8       1.24     -         6.8     0.821   20.77     1.262
IV.       Staff Training Abroad                         -     0.28    4.3 '     0.28     -          -      0.249    4.23     0.249
847.5   31.51 1322.0     88.10              995.344  35.000 1747.739 105.000
1/ with contingencies
2/ allocation of loan proceeds
3/ without contingencies



- 28 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
Procurement of Equipment
1. Automatic traffic counters, equipped for direct computer data
processing.
Supplier: Signalbau Huber, GmbH, Munchen, W. Germany, contract
dated August 24, 1973, Annex dated May 23, 1974 and
August 30, 1974; total value amounts to 2,256.039 DM
No.          No.
Permanent    Portable
Republic/             Traffic      Traffic       No.        Value
Province             Counters     Counters    Convertor      (DM)
Bosnia.-Herzegovina      20            5         1         295,221
Montenegro                8            2         -           97,051
Croatia                 53             -         1         580,610
Macedonia                14            6         1          244,121
Slovenia                24             4         1         326.400
Serbia                  20            20         1         425,346
Vojvodina                15            5         -          192,814
Kosovo                    6_           4         -          94,476
Total           160            46         5       2,256,039
2. Electronic weighing scales, printers
Sup?plier: TELUB AB, Vaxjo, Sweden, contract dated October 17, 1973;
total value amounting to 1,708,560 Skr
No.
Republic/            Weighing          No.          No.     Value
Province               Scales    Portable Scales  Printer    (Skr)
Bosnia-Herzegovina      18              3            3      284,760
Montenegro              12              2            2      189,840
Croatia                24               4            4     379,680
Macedonia               12              2            2      189,840
Slovenia               12               2            2     189,840
Serbia                 24               4            4     379,680
Vojvodina                6              1            1       94,920
Kosovo                                                    ____ ___
Total          108              18           18   1,708,560
3.  Microfilm equipment, camera, developer, duplicator, microscope,
microreader, amplifier
Supplier;  Weigl Buromaschinen Handelsgesellschaft, Wien, Austria,
contract dated March 5, 1974; total value ammounting to
4,146,660 ASch
Value
Republic         Set         ASch
Croatia              1      1,382.220
Macedonia            1      1,382.220
Slovenia             1      1,382.220
Total              3      4,146.660



- 29 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Procurement of Equipment (Con't)
4. Stereocartographic apparatus, autograph Wild A 10; electro-optical
equipment for distance measurements
Supplier;  Unicomerc, Zagreb, Yugoslavia for the firm Wild, Heerbrugg,
Switzerland, contract dated March 27, 1974; total value
amounting to 235,900 Sfr
Electro-optical
Equip. for Distance      Value
Republic        Wild AIO     Measurements            Sfr
Bosnia-Herzegovina      -              1               31,970
Slovenia                1              -              203,930
Total              2              1              235,900
5. Other equipment for geologic, geomechanic and geophysical research
Supplier: AFL, Anstalt fur Labour--Technik, Vaduz, Liechtenstein, contract
dated June 10, 1976; total value amounting to 261,469 Sfr
User
Slovenia           Total value  261,469 Sfr
6. Other equipment for geologic, geomechanic and geophysical research
Supplier: Soiltest, International Inc., Evanston, USA, contract dated
July 8, 1974; total value amounting to 40,504 US$
User
Slovenia           Total value   40,504 US$
7. Copy machine for designs and plans
Supplier: Rank Zeroz, Ltd., London, Great Britain, contract dated July 12,
1974; total value amounting to 14,027.56 LStg
User
Bosnia and Herzegovina    Total value    14,027.56 hStg
8, Traffic Counters
Supplier; Mangood Ltd., Panteg, Pontypool, Great Britain, order dated
September 2, 1974; total value amounting to 5,353 LStg
User
Croatia (4 traffic counters)   Total value     5,353 LStg



-30 -                          ANNEX 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
Training Abroad According to Subjects
Number of
Staff                  Countries in Which Trained
Subject of Training                Trained   France  Italy  West Germany  Great Britain   U.S.A.
Organization of road administration
services, planning, designing, road
construction, supervision, main-
tenance, financing                        28       3       1          19             2          3
Geological researches, pavement            12       2                   8             1          1
Designing, highway construction             2                           2
Designing, bridge construction and                                 -
maintenance                                3                           1                        2
Highway passing through cities -
solutions                                  1                                                    1
Traffic engineering                        10                           2             2           6
Financing, economic selection of
alternatives, stage construction           1       1
Designing of tunnels, application
of computer                                1                                                     1
Protection of the environment               1                                                     1
Road financing                              2                                                     2
Road designing in the urban areas           2       1                                            1
Road data bank, planning of road
network, interchanges on freeways          1                           1
Planning, designing, realization            1                           1
Application of computers in planning
and designing                              1                                                    1
Law regulations, IBRD                       1                                                     I 1
Total                             67       7        1         34             5         20
* Another 44 candidates participated in short-term seminars on highway engineering
and traffic surveys in Switzerland, France and Italy



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
Fifth Highway Project (Loan 751-YU)
Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT) Volumes_' on Project Roads 1970-90
Highway Sections                     Appraisal Estimates                  2     Revsed Estimates
1970.!/ 1975    1980    1985     1990      1970Y   1975_   1980    1985     1990
S. R. Macedonia
Skopi 'Tetovo4           2,100   4,250   6,900  10,000  14,000      2,100   4,062   6,500 l,OC   14,000
Kicevo-St. Razmo-i/        250     800   1,410   2,150   3,200        250   1,778   2,500   3,500   4,800
S. R. Slovenia
Postojna-Razdrto4/       8,400  10,000  19,000  30,000  38,000      8,400   6,173  11,000  18,000  28,000
Hoce-Levec-/             5,300   8,200  16,000  26,000  35,000      5,300   4,610.3- 8,000  15,000  25,000
A. P. Kosovo
Kosovo Polje-Pristina4/ 3,100    5,700  10,350  16,000  25,000      3,100   7,274  10,500  16,000   25,000
1/ Cars, trucks and buses.
2/ Actuals.
3/  Relates to 1976 whenthe new road was open to traffic.
4/ Percentage of Commercial Vehicles (trucks and buses) on Skopje-Tetovo, Kicevo-St.Razmo, Postojna-Razdrto,
Hoce-Levec and Kosovo Polje-Pristina worked out as 35,35, 22, 1-8,-25 percent respectively.
Source: Appraisal Report, Latest Traffic Survey Data and Mission Estimates.
.1n



- 32 -                              ANNEX 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
Fifth Highway Project (Loan 751-YU)
Average Daily Traffic Volumes - 1975/76
Race-Levee!'                 Postojna-Razdrto!I
Toll      Existing            Toll       Existing
Road   Parallel Road  Total    Road   Parallel Road   Total
1.  Passenger Cars      3,973         2,010     5,983   4,954       2,078       7,032
2.  Buses                  16           188       204      73         144        217
3. Light Trucks
up to 3 tons         115           103       218     116         116         232
4. Medium Trucks
3 to 7 tons          331           255       586     362         245         607
5. Heavy Trucks/
Truck Trailers
over 7 tons          175            62       237     668         168         836
4,610        2,618     7,228    6,173       2,751      8,924
(63.8%)      (36,2%)   (100.0%) (69.2%)     (30.8%)    (100.0%)
1/ 1976 traffic.
2/ 1975 traffic.
Source - Roads Organization, Slovenia and mission estimates.



-33 -                              ANNEX 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
Fifth Ilighway Project (Loan 751-YU)
Amount of Toils on Different Types of Vehicles
(1976)
Tolls in Dinars
Types             Hoce-Celje       Vrhnika-Razdrtol/
of Vehicles              (45 km)           (40 km)
Motorcycle                 7                 10
Passenger Car              9                 12
(small)
Passenger Car             12                 16
(big)
Autobus                   30                 40
Trucks (2 axles)          17                 23
Trucks (3 axles)          19                 25
1/ Postojna-Razdrto (8.8 km) forms a part of this freeway
Source: Roads Organization, Slovenia



- 34 -
}ifch i:henwA  P'roectrLan    51-fl')
Vehicle Opt -atm' Costs...l (DInars per km)                      ANNEX 8
Net of Titxes                                      ANNEX____
jyySs of 71icle                     AFpraissl Estimate-/                                    Revised Estimate
Kosovo                                                Koe ovo
Skopje-   Kicevo-    Postojna- IPoce-    Polje-       Skopje-31 Kicevo-3/Pos tojua-31 loce-4/ Poije-)/
Tetovo     OhridV     Razdrto   Levec    Pristina     Tetovo     0O:rid    Razdrto     Levec   Pristoni
Passeager Car
Existing road        0.49       0.75        0.51      0.50     0.48        0.96        1.46      0.99       1.04     0.94
New road             0.42        0.43       0.42      0.42     0.41        3.82        0.83      0.82       0.87     0.80
Saving               0.07       0.32        0.09      0.08     0.07        0.14        0.63      0.17       0.17     0.14
% saving               14          43         18        16       15          14          43        17         lh       15
LLght TLuck (van)
Existing road        1.20        1.84       1.30      1.26     1,20        2.34        3.59      2.53       2.62     2.34
New road             3.00        1.05       1.00      1.03     0)98        1.95        2.05      1.95       2.08     1.91
Saving               0.20        0.79       0.30      0.26     0.22        0.39        1.54      0.58       0.54     0.43
2 saving               17          43         23        21       18          17          43        23         21       18
Medium truck
Existing road        1.85        3.10       1.96      1.89     1.75        3.61        6.04      3.82       3.93      3.41
New road             1.45        1.70       1.47      1.47     1.43        2.83        3.31      2.87       3.06      2.79
Saving               0.40       1.40        0.49      0.42     0.32        0.78        2.73      0.95       0.87     0.62
X saving               22          45         25        22       18          22          45         25        22        18
Heavy T'ruck
Existing road        2.50        4.20       2.65      2.55     2.37        4.87        8.19      5.17       5.20     4.62
New road             1.95        2.25       2.00      2.00     1.95        3.80        4.39      3.90       4.16      3.80
Saving               0.55       1.95        0.65      0.55     0.42        1.07        3.80      1.27       1.1L     0.82
% saving               22          46         25        22       18          22          46         25        22        18
Truck & Trailer
Existinig road        3.22        5.45       3.46      3.35     3.15        6.28       10.63      6.75       6.97      6.14
New road             2.55        2.90       2.61      2.60     2.55        4.97        5.65      5,09       5.41      4.97
Savino               0.70        2.55       0.85      0.75     0.60        1.31        6.98      1.66       1.56      1.17
X saivng               22          47         25        22       19          21          47         25        22        19
Autobes
Existing road        3.10        5.35       3.42      3.33     3.15        6.05       10.43      6.67       6.93     6.14
New road             2.50        2.90       2.60      2.60     2.55        4.88        5.65       5.07      5,41      4.97
Savinig              0.60        2.45       0.82      0.73     0.60        1.17        4.78      1.60       1.32     1.17
% saving               19          46         24        22       19          19          46         24        22        19
1/  Excludes passenger time.           2/  At 1971 price level.
3/  At 1975 price.                     4/  At 1976 price.
51 Ohrid (St, Razmo)
Average Vehicle Operating Cost Increase      1971-1976   108
Comparison of Selected Vehicle Operating Cost Components
New Inforration              Appraisal at
Items              at 1975 Price                1971 Price
(Economic Cost in ND)
Gasoline - per liter              2.50                     0.60
Diesel - per licer                2.23                     0.45
Tire (car) - per tire           271.01                   150.00
Tire (medium
truck) - per tire       2873.19                  1375.00
Source: Appraisal Report
Statistic0l Pocket Book of Yugoslavia, 1976 and 1977
Guidelinr-; for Highway Feasibility Studies Vol I - Dorsch/Rerger



- 35 -                               ANNEX 9
PROJECT COTiTL,TION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 751-YU)
Ex-Post and Appraisa] Estimates of Economic Rates of Return
(Percentage)
------------- Rate of Return ----------------
Ex-Post Estimate        Appraisal Estimate
Proportion         (excluding     (including       (excluding
of Total          ]'assenger     Passenger         Passenger
Road Section            Investment       "ir'e Pavings)  viine Saving4J Time Savings)
Skopje-Tetovo                8.9                24               27              20
Kicevo-St. Razino           11.1                23               26              16
Postojna-Razdrto            11.2                10               12              16
Hoce-Levec                  67.8                 9               15              15
Kosovo Polje-Pristina        1.0                30               32              18
1/  Corresponi:Lng estimates in Appraisal Report are not available as savings
in passenger time were not included in that analysis.
Source: Appra:Lsal Report and Mission Estimates.






A  U   S  T ZgR  I A                                                                              !
L 1      o   AiA                 H     U     N     G     A    o R      Y
HIGHWAY SYSTEM ' -"- 
ERURPEAN HIOUWAUS                                                                                1
OTHER CLASS I HHWAYS 
RI HIWAY UNDER CONSTRUCTION | w j ! i   H  E   V  N
-.*..-'BOUNDARIES OF REPUBLICS E AUTONOHOUS PROVINCES  * linjs>_>dslo
.+---I-  RAILWAYS                           |2i,                                    8 
*-'--'FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT                                  .,>    D.A           i 
~ ~-~   SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                           . .)    z      62  Klcevo<   \ A  V
THIRD HIGHWAY PROdIECT T  .
FoURTH HI GHWAT PROJECT                                   TD             \   od   \_.             ;5
OUGWAT BRIDGE AT KOSOVo  POLUE (5TH PUOJECT) I;\\. 
A D KOSOV  FOIJE-PRISTINA SECTION (500 PROJECT)                           .;tY111          /<          F
**v*  PROPOSED FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT  0  20  HO  SO  eo  1002                      }  En &         ECE     t 
sEBRUARY 1971        IBRD-3165R |
FEBRUARY 1071~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K, ,
Ul.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R - AR



