ZofW ?s/- YU
RESTRICTED
Report No.   PTR-73a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOC]:ATION
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
May 19, 1971
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Equivalents:
Currency Unit            - Dinar
US$1                     5 Din 15.0o
Din 1                       us$o.o667
Din 1 million            = US$66,667
Fiscal Year:  January 1 - December 31
Units of Weights and Measures:  Metric
Metric                      British/US
1 meter (m)              = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kn)         = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) =  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)     = 0.98 long tons (lg tons)
= 1.1 US short tons (sh tons)



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH HIGHWAY PIROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARtY ANI) CONCLUSIONS                  ..............              .       ...........         - ii
1. INTRODUCTION   ..1
IL. IIACKGtOUNI)..                                                                                   2
A. General.                                                                                   2
l. Tbe Transport Sector .3
C. Transport Policy and Coordinatioi.                                                         4
Ill. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR                          ..                                                  5
A. The Highway Network.                                                                       5
B. Road Transport.                                                                            5
C. Highway Adminiistration.                                                                   5
D. Highway Planning and Financing                                                              7
IV. THE PROJECT.                                                                                     7
A. General DIescription    ................................    7
B. I ligiway Construction   ...............................    8
C.  Equipiietit lurchases    ...............................   10
1). Consulting Services and Staff Traininig Abroad   .....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   10
E. Cost Estimiates and Foreign Exchange Costs    ..................   11
F.  Project Finanicing and Execution   .........................   13
G.  Disbursements   .......  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
V.      ECONOMIC EVALUATION    .............................   15
A. General   .......................................   15
R. Macedonia: Skopje-Tetovo and Kicevo-St. Razrno
(Oblrid)   ........  .        .  .  .  ..  .    ...........  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .    .   16
C.  Slovenia: I)ostojIna-R(azdrto and Hoce-Levec   .....  .             ...... .  .  .  .  .  .    .   17
1).  Kosovo: Kosovo PoRjc-Pristiiia   ..........             ................   17
E.  SUIiurinary    ........  .       .  .  .  ..  .    .........  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..    .  17
VI.     R(LCOMMLND)ATIONS    ...............                        I        ...............  18
'('iis report was writteni by Messrs. K. Alexander (Engineer) and V. Wouters (Economist),
and wa.s edited by Mrs. P'. Valad.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
TABLES
1.   Freight Traffic by Mode of Transport, 1958-1970
2.   Passenger Traffic by Mode of Transport, 1958-197(1
3.   Cargo Handled by the Main Ports, 1958-1969
4.   Public Roads iti the Six Republics and Two Autonomous Provinices,
1969
5.   Modernization of the Highway System, 1958-1969
6.   Registered Motor Vehicle Flcet, 1958-1969
7.   Production and Import of Ncw Vclicles, 1960-1969
8.   Financing of Highway Expcnditurcs, 1958-1970                                     @
9.   Highway Expenditures in 1 969
10.   Estimated Reventic from Road User Charges and its Distributionl in 1970
11.   Financing of Highway Expenditures in 1969
12.   Project Design Standards
13.   Equipml ent Requirements and Cost Estimates
14.   Estimated Cost of Project Highway Sections
15.   Average Daily Traffic, 1969-1990
16.   Motor Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings per Km
17.   Rates of Return
ANNEXES
A.   Construction and/or Improvement of Access and Connecting Roads to
Project Highway Sections
B.   Project Finanicing
C.   Project Bidding Sections and Subsections
D.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHART
Typical Organizationi of a Road FuLInd
MAP
Yugoslavia: Ilighway System



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.         'I'he proposed Fifth Highway 1'roject, which this report appraises, consists of
f'our m;ain parts. First, the constructioni an(d supervision of five highway sections, totaling
153 kin, in the Republics of Macedonia and Slovenia and the Autonomous Province of
Kosovo.  'I'hese sections constitute the thiir(d and last tranche of the highway program
submitted by the Governinent to the Bank in 1968, and are additional segments of the
highways included in the l'irst two tranches which the Bank is helping to finance. The
econIomilic returns on these sections range between 15%' and 20'%,. Second, purchases of'
engineering equipment (mainly traffic counters, vehicle weighing scales, andl laboratory
equipment). Third, consulting services to assist in improving the standards of project
preparation and economic evaluation, traft'ic engineering, and some aspects of highway
design and maintenance. Fourth, training abroad of staff members employed by the Road
Funds, Road Councils, and closely associated institutes and enterprises. This would be
the first highway project in Yugoslavia to include other iterns than construction.
ii.         The growth of the Yugoslav economy, about 6%'9 p.a. in recent years, has
led to a rapid increase in transport requirements. Between 1959 and 1969, total passenger
traffic rose by about 10% p.a., and freight trat'fic by about 7% p.a. Road transport absorbed
the larger part of the additional traffic. Development of the transport infrastructure has
lagged  behind this traffic growth.  The highway network, for example, is generally
inadequate for current traffic loads because most of the roadis were built decades ago
for light trafl'ic only and have weak foundations.  'T'lhe authorities recognize the nieed
to improve the infrastructure and it is expecte(d that the new Five-Year Plans ( 197 1-75)
of the Federationz andt of' the Republics and Provinces, whicli are in preparation, will address
themselves to lhis need.  Meanwhile, the Banik has helped the development of better
transport facilities by making l'our highway loans totaling US$ I 15 million and three railway
loans totaling US$155 million.  The projects under these loanis hiave been or are being
satisflactorily completed, except the project under the Second Railway Loan whichl is being
delayedl by a persistenit shortage of' local currenicy finanicing, f'or whiicli no immediate
solution is in sight.
iii.        ThIe economic reforms ot' 1965 have had importaiit consequences f'or the
transport sector as a whole, and individluall modes in particular.  Prior to that date,
Yugoslavia had  emphasized  the railways as the prinmary transport mode; since then
Government policy has aimed to create econlomic conditions equally flavorable for the
developmnent ol' all modes. Following this shif't, road transport developed rapidly, while
railway  transport stagnate(l.   Thlei decentralization  in econiomtiic decision-makinlg and
administration after 1965 ledl to some serious problemiis in administration, planning, project



- jj -
preparation, and coordination.  Although progress has been IMide durinig the past two
years in remiedying these problems, partly on Bank advice, lurthier improvements arc
needed:   the Goveriinmenit should  det'inie its transport policivs more  precisely; the
responsibilities of the Federal, Republic, and Ilrovincial Governments in the transport sector
should  be  more  clearly  delineated, and  minore  and  better slat'a' to dischiarge  these
responsibilities should be emiploycd; project evaluation shoul(d be I'furtiler rel'inecl; and better
arrangements should be made to improve coordination among thie Road Funds in research,
project preparation, and other activities.  These issues are currently being discussed in
preparation of the new  Five-Year Plans.  Thc authorities expect that solutions will be
ftound soon and that the dIral't Federal llan may be ready ih the summer of 1971 for
subnmissioni to  Parliament. This Plan  is expectcd  to  include a program  of highway
construction to be submitted to the Bank t'or f'uture financing. The Federal Government
has asked the Bank to send a mission to review  the situation of' the transport sector
and all drat't Five-Year Plans on transport.  The Bank has agreed to send this mission           
as soon as the draft Uederal P'lan is available.
iv.         The total cost of' 1heX pi      iS cstsinlacd a1t US$88 I i illion, comprisiig:
US$84.4 million  lor construction, USLS 2.2 million l'or eniginieeling equipment, USS 1.2
million lfor consulting services, and US$0.3 miillion lfor stal'f' traininig aibroa(l. The proposed
loan would finance the foreign exchange comiponienit of' the project (US$31.5 million)
as well as a relatively small portion of local currency expenditures lor construction (US$3.5
million). The loan proceeds allocated to construction wouldl cover 38%  ol' the total cost
of construction and supervision; the foreign exchange componen-t of construction would
be 34%, assuming that no foreign contractors would win a bid, which has been the
experience under all previous highway projects in Yugoslavia. Contracts for construction
and equipment would be awarded to prequalified firms on the basis of international
comiipetitive biddiig, except small preparatory construction  works in Slovenia (totaling
US$2.3 miillion) anid e(quipment contracts (totaling US$0.5 million) with a value of less
than  US$10,000  eacth. Contracts for these two items would be unattractive and/or
inappropriate l'or international competitive bidding and, therefDre, would be awarded
accordinig to modif'ied bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The f'irmn of conlsultanits
would  be selecte(d and the staff training program  carried OUt according to proced ures
aicceptable to the 13ank.
v.          With the assuLrances obtainle(d during loan negotiatioris as indicated in paras.
6.01-6.02, the proposed, project would be a suitable basis lor a Bank loan of' US$35 million;
aln appropriate termii would be 25 years, includinig a five-year grace period. '1l'te borrower
would be the Federal Governiment, which woukl rclend the loan proceeds to the Republics
and Provinces; the latter would be responsible for executing the project, and'would have
adequate local funds to help finance the project and the entire cost of certain access
road improvements not included in the project.



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01       The Socialist Federal Republic of' Yugoslavia has asked the Bank to help
t'inance a project comprising the conistruction of five highway sections, purchases of
engineering equipment, consulting services, and staff training abroad. The total cost of'
the project is estimated at US$88.1 million, toward which a loan of US$35 million is
*              proposed.
1.02       With this loan, B1ank lending for hiighways would rise to US$ 150 millioll. The
loan would be made to the Federal Government, wlhich woukl relenid the proceeds to
the Republics and Autonomous Provinces; the beneficiary authorities would designate
appropriate executing agencies.
1.03       The five highway sections constitute the third and last tranche of the highway
construction program submitted by the Government to the Bank in 1968. The first two
tranches are being financed by Bank loans of US$30 million (Third Hlighway Project,
608-YU, June 1969) and US$40 million (Fourth Highway F'roject, 678-YU, June 1970).
Construction under the Third Highway Project is proceeding satisfactorily; contracts for
works under the Fourth Highway Project are in the process of being awarded. The two
earlier highway projects (First Highway Project, 344-YU, June 1963 and Second Highway
Project, 485-YU, February 1967) of US$35 million and US$ I0 million respectively, were
completecl withini the original cost estimates and the agreed timne schedules, and are
generating the economic benefits expected of' them.
1.04       Thlree other transport loans have been made to Yugoslavia by the Bank for
railways, totaling US$155 million. The f'irst of US$35 million (First Railway Project.
361-YU, October 1963) helped finance construction of a standard gauge line between
Sarajevo and the port of Ploce; except for some minor works, the line is complete. The
second of' US$70 million (Second Railway 1'roject, 395-YU, D)ecember 1964) is helping
to finance modernization of the main lines, and it is experienicinig difficulties as explailned
below. The third of US$50 million (Belgrade-Bar Railway Plroject, 531-YU, March 1968)
is helping f'inance construction of' a standard gauge railway betweenr Belgrade anld the port
of Bar; constructioni is proceedinig satisfactorily, although costs may be higher than
estimated because ol the general inflation that has taken place in Yugoslavia.
1.05      IFxecution ol the Seconld Railway 1'roject has been seriously delayed by a
shortage of locail financing. Since 1967, the railways have had a caslh shiortage caused
by poor earnings, risinig accounits-receivable that ref'lect a nation-wide li(luidity shortage,
and increasing investmaetnt costs. Following the 1965 Econoinic Reform, anid the subsequent



2 -
decccitra I waIliol Inelsti res, the obligaztioil of the le(deral G;overnnlentI to  i1Ce t railway
del'icits has beent translferred to the Rtepublics and AuL 10 onlomo0s Provinces. 'I'he laltter,
however, have n1ot yet been able to assuI)e this responsibility ill htill, because the d ivisioIn
ot respoInsibilities and r(esouirces betweeCn thl  I Federat ion al1l ilS colistiittienll pailIs has still
to be tinaally decer-illille(l. It is expected tailt tlbis (ILnestioll will bc resolve(d durlilng tie
Coi1ililig SLIIlhiiCer. l()o expedite execuitioni ol the pro ject, the (;overiinmeLint and the Ba ink
agreed early in 1970 oni a Ihiianciiug plan tor that year and the Bank agreed to extend(i
the Closinlg Date Lilltil March 31, 1973.  1lowever, the cash shortage hias persisted despite
sincere eF'F'orts to improve the situation. Th'lie Fiiianicinig plan for the railways in 1971, received
by the Bank in April, made a serious effort to increase the r esources, but has  been
shown to be insufficient to prevent a furtlher worsening. This lis principally because the
latest estimiiate of the cost of the moderniization program  anid related ilvestments has
increase(i by    30%    over the previous estimates, which may have been too low, due
to the recent currency devaluationi and to current and forecast increases in domestic prices.
The accounts payable by the railways halve doubled  since May  1970. Suppliers andl
conitralctors are now  reluctant to cxtent(l F'uirther credit and are re(uiring cashI payment
for current deliveries of supplies and InatCriaL+  as well as currenit works under contract.
Due to the lack of funds, work on the moderniization prograrrm and related investments
is sporadically interrupted and has come to a standstill in some areas. Execution of the
railway project is likely to be further delayed beyond the newClosing Date.The matter
is under continuing review; it is intended to examine the situation in depth with the
assistance of a team  of consultants in the next six months. This detailed examination
of the railways will be followed toward the end of this year by a Bank study of the
Yugoslav transport sector as a whole.
1.06        This report was written by Messrs. R. Alexander (Engineer) and V. Wouters
(Economist), who appraised the project in September/October 1970, and was edited by
Mrs. P. Valad.
11. BACKGROUND
A.   General
2.01        Yugoslavia, with a population of about 20 rnillion that is increasing at 1%
p.a., has a diversified economy that has grown rapidly since World War 11 when much
of the country's transport system was severely damaged. During the past decade, per capita
income has grown by about 5%  p.a. to reach about US$625. Rising econonmic activity
and personal incomes have led to a rapid growth in transport requirements. Between 1959
and 1969, total passenger traffic grew at about 10% p.a., and total freight traffic by 7Y,,
p.a.



- 3 -
2.02         Yugoslavial is a socialist federal republic consistinig ol' six RepUbliCs I and
two  Autonomous  Provinces.2  During  the  past decade, governmental authiority  anid
administration, previously concentrated in the Federal center, was decentralized to the
Republics and Provinces, whiich have gained considerable autonomy over their affairs,
including decisions on transport infrastructure investments. The decentralizationi has Caused
transport planning andl other problems (liscussed below.
2.03        A distiniguishing f'eature of' Yugoslavia is the "self-managemnent" pr-inicipic u.'
economic organization. This meanis that transport cnterprisc, inCluding tille railways and
ports, have become autonomous entities managed by "workers' councils", as are all other
enterprises. In place of the highway administration or public works department found
in other countries, the Republics and Provinces have set up Road Funds and Road Councils.
These may be "managed" by a Board consisting of as many as 21 people representing
trading and business enterprises, consulting firms, individual experts, ancd the Local and
Republic Governments. Tlecir degree of autonomy varies, but all major investmenit decisionis
must be approved by the Republic and Provincial Governmeints.
B.    The Transport Sector (Map and Tables I - 3)
2.04        Yugoslavia's  location  makes  it  an  importanit  crossroads  in  Europe.
Traditionally, the Yugoslav transport system  has provided access to the sea for a numIher
of Central European countries. More recently, its road systern has become important for
international tourism and trade especially from Austria and Italy. Some main roads hiave
been designated as part of the European "E" system of international routes. The country's
domestic transport system  is extensively developed, but the north is better served than
the south for hiistorical reasons. The transport system  is also well diversified: 7 major
ports, 10,700 km  of rail lines, 90,000 km  of roads. 15 air-ports (10 of wihicli hanidle
intemational flights), and a sizeable network of inland waterways.
2.05        During the past decade, the railways have lost their dominant role in interilal
transport to the roads. While the railways accounted for about 80'7., of total freight tral'fic
and  75'S  of total passeniger traffic in  1958, they  now  account l'or 50%/, and 30%S,,
respectively, of such traf'l'ic. The roads currently account for 40%S, of' total freighit traffic
and 65%/o of' total passenger trafi'ic. Inland water transport is still signil'icauit, it carries
aabout I0%(, ol total freight tral'lic. The ports have doubled their cargo lhandlinig since 1 959
anid curreintly mlove about 15  million mn tons p.a.
2.00        D)espite tihe physical progress made in the translport sector, muicl remilailis to
be (done. 'Flie railways need f'urtler modernization, the capacity of some ports needs to
be increased, and improveinents in productivity are required. Many roads remrain below
I    Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Momiteniegro, Serbia, ancl Slovenia.
2    Kosovo amid Vojvodina.



- 4 -
standard t'or the traf'fic they carry anld need improvements to handle expected traffic
increases cfl'iciently. The nlew Five-Year Plans (whichi are being prepared Oy tlhe lFederation,
the Republics, and the P'rovinces) are expected to address themselves to thesc needs.
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination
2.07        Af'ter World War 11, Yugoslavia (leveloped under a system  of' detaile(d central
planning of' the Soviet type. During this period, Governmenit policy gave low priority to
investments in the transport sector and f'avored the railways over the roads. Since the
1965 ecotnoImlic reforms, the econonmic system  has been decentralized and Government
policy has aimed to create economic conditions equally favorable for the development
of all transport modes. Imports of motor vehicles and parts have been liberalized and
expendittUres on the highway network have increased from  Din I billion in 1965 to Din
2.4 billion in 1969, malinly in real terms.
2.08        Thc ref'ormiis have liad ein,sortaint consequences lor the transport sector as a
wholc, and iidiVidvi aIl modes in palrtiel,l. Whilc iroad tranSiloit has grown rapidly, railway
transport has stagniated. As a result of the reforms, the railway enterprises are expected
to operJte without anly budgetary support, as are all other transport enterprises. This has
proved to be impossible at a time when changes in the structure of the economy have
changed  transport demand  patterns, when  the railways have had to face increasing
competition from road transport, when outside financing has been difficult to obtain,
and when the authorities have at times been slow to approve rate changes to reflect changed
economic conditions.
2.09        Decentralization has caused some other difficulties. An important deficiency
in the transport sector in recent years has been the lack of a clear, consistent, and well
coordinated transport policy. This is being recognized by the authorities and, within the
context of the  new  Federal, RK-publican, and  Provincial Five-Year Plans, they  are
re-examininlg the role of the transport sector, the priorities and linancinig of transport
investments, and staft'fing re(quirements. They are also considering measUres for improving
investment planning, project preparation anld coordination, and ways to define and to
delineate more clearly the responsibilities of' the various authorities in the transport sector.
This latter issue haLs been widely disCusse(d in Yugoslavia andI is a prime flactor for the
deilay in preparing the new Federal Planl, whichi was originially scheduled for lParliamentary
approval by the end of' 1970. The authorities expect that soluticns will be lound sooIn
and that the draf't Federal P'lan will be ready in the summer ol' 1971  for submission
to Parliament. They have asked the B3ank to send a mission to review the situation of
the transport sector and the draft Plans on transport. The Banik has agreed to send this
mission as soon as the draft Federal Plan is available.



-5-
111. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.   The Highway Network (Tables 4 and 5)
3.01        Yugoslavia has about 90,000 ktm of' roads, inclu(ling 22,000 kml of' paved roads
built mlostly since 1962. 'I'he roads are categorized in f'our classes: the Federal Assembly
designates Class 1, the Rcpublics and Provinces Class Jl and 111, and the Municipalities
Class IV,
3.02       The highway network is generally outdated and inade(uate t'or current traffic
loads. Most roads were built decades ago on a poor foundation and l'or light traffic. Thley
constantly require expensive repairs and maintenance, especially in areas subject to deep
frost. The same is true for many roads modernized since 1962 because moderniization
has been limited largely to placing a thin asphalt layer oni a gravel surface and lhas not
included foundation strengthening; these roads should be reconstructed. Also, many gravel
and earth roads carrying high traffic volumes should be upgra[ded. Moreover, several major
two-lane paved highways are congested and should be expanded to four lanes or even
replaced by four-lane divided expressways with access control and grade separation of
crossings. The authorities recognize these needs and are taking them into account in
preparing the new Five-Year Plans.
B.   Road Transport (Tables 6 and 7)
3.03        Road transport has developed rapidly and the vehicle fleet has grown from
126,000 in 1958 to 850,000 in 1969. This increase has been possible because domestic
production as well as imports of motor vehicles has expanded rapidly. Private car ownership
is steadily rising as per capita incomes grow. Entry into the trucking industry is free and
competition is keen. The rapid increase in tourism in recent years has added large volumes
of traffic on the roads.
C.   Highway Administration (Chart and Tables 8 and 9)
3.04       The Federal Government plays a minimal role in highway administration; it
hals been largely occupied with international cooperation and relations. The Republics and
lProvinces are responisible for maintenance and investnicnt in Class I to Ill roads (44,000
kin) and the Municipalities tior Class IV roads (46,000 ki'). Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia,
Macedonia, and Slovenia have Road FLunds to administer their roads; Montenegro, Serbia,
and Kosovo have Road C'ouncils; and Vojvodina has a Road Funld for investmnelnts and
a Road CouLncil lfOr maintenance. Signif'icant differences also exist in the degree of
autonomy, stazl'ing, andl scope of operations olf the various F'unds and Councils. In general,
the Funds have greatter administrative capabilities than the Councils.
3.05       The FLunds and Councils (Road  Fun(ds) genierally conf'ine themselves to
administration and supervision; they do not carry out any civil works. They usually award
engineering and economuic studies to domestic consulting firmi and research institutes. These



-6-
consultants are coimpeteilt and prodcuee Iigh (u.ality work; lhowever, thieir experience is
recent, limitecd, and needis improvement in specil'ic l'ields, sulch ais econoie c evaluation
of investment alternatives and priorities, and (lesigin of' low cost pavements. Construction
is awarded to Pre(lualified conistruIctionl enterprises, usually af'ter broad (lomilcst ic bidding
under uniit price contraicts. About 50 road constructioni enterprises exist, all hligilly 
mechanized; about one-tlhird caLn undertake works of US$30-50 inillion p.a., andl somieC
have won contracts abroad. For supervision, the RZoad  uLndls genoe-ally establish a special
group of competent experts assisted by outsi(de special institutes (soils andi materials
testing).
3.06        Maintenance works are carried out by road maintenance enterprises on the
basis of negotiated contracts. Following decentralization, these enterprises were hived off
from  the lhighway administration; they currently operate as any other enterprise in
Yugoslavia. Thieir numbers dlit'fer fromn one large amalgamated enterprise in Macedonia to
seven in Sloveniia. Maintenance hadl beeni badIly neglected before 1967, but has sinee
improved considerably. It varis;, liowcvcr. i;, cliality and extenit armong the ltepublics and
P'rovinces due to the lack of' uLlilforin standadicls, and clil'l'erenices ill maintenance methods
and availability of' funds.
3.07        One major achievement of decentralization has been that highway maintenance
and investment have gained considerable local support as evidenced by recent increases
in expenditures (para. 2.07). In 1969, the Road Funds spent Din 592 million for highway
maintenance, or an average of about US$1,100 per km compared with about US$250
per km in 1965. Current maintenance expenditures are high, but justified in view of the
poor condition ot' the network and the heavy traffic; part of these expenditures will be
saved as the road network is reconstructed and upgraded.
3.08        However, as indicated in para. 2.09, decentralizatioii has created problems
of staffing and coordination in highway planning, project preparation, research, and
administration. These were discussed with the authorities and, undcr the Third and Fourth
Highway Loans, the Federal Government and the Republics and Provinces agreed to: (a)
revise existing laws and regulations, in particular to ensure that earmarked fun(ds will be
used t'irst for highway maintenance; and (b) improve coordination in the highway sector.
Moreover, the Republics and Provinces also gave assurances that tlhey would: (a) enforce
iimits on motor vehiicle dimensions and axle-loads; (b) mainitaini their highway networks;
and (c) collect and analyze data for highway planning purposes. Thlese uncdertakings have
been reconitiriimed durinig loan negotiations.
3.09        The  authorities have  made  satisfactory  progress in implementing  these
undertakings, as well as in dealing with other problems. All laws and decrees related to
the highway sector are being reviewed as part of a national review of all existing legislation.
Meanwhile, highway maintenance has improved. The Road Funds have also increased the
size of thieir staffs ancl are interested in improving their expertise by the use of' foreign
COnuStUantS and providiing additional training abroad tor selected members of their staff
aIn1d cIOSCely aSSOCiatCed in StituitCS at(I eniterpriscs ( para. 4. 1 0). lltirtlhci-eiore, thc Road F u nids



- 7 -
are achieving a large measure of coordination as a result of worik on the new Federal
Five-Year Plan and through informal meetings at which problems of common interest suchI
as coordination of research and data collection are being (liscussed. A recent outcome
of these meetings has been a tentative agreement on establishing a Council of the
Republican and Provincial Road Organizations to deal with matters of mutual interest,
including cooperation with international organizations. To further improve collection of
traffic data and control of vehicle axle-loads, the Road Funds have prepared a list of
engineering equipment needed for these tasks and a plan for its use and location (para.
4.09).
D.   Highway Planning and Financing (Tables 8, 10 and II)
3.10       The new Federal Plan and those of the Road Funds (para. 2.09) are expected
to recommend a significant increase in highway expenditures based on the obvious need
to improve the network and on engineering assessments by the Road Funds of maintenance
and investment projects. The Federal Plan will also include a program of high priority
investments to be submitted by the Federal Government for Bank consideration. However,
economic evaluation of most of these projects and their priority and financing remain
to be worked out.
3.11       As to highway  financing, the revenue from  road user charges has been
estimated for the first time and, in 1970, is expected to amount to Din 3.3 billion. This
would exceed total higlhway expenditures of Din 2.8 billion, Under existing regulations,
55%, of the total revenuc lrom road user charges accrues to the Federal budget, 8' to
the budgets ot the Republics and Provinces, and 37% to the Road Funds for finanicing
highway mnaintenanice and reconstructioni. 'Tile earmarked revenue accruing to the Road
Funds covers only 45'%, of thleir total expeniditures and consequently they depenid heavily
on hud(getary allocations, public loans, bank credits, and voluntary contributionis ot
enterprises and citizens. To decrease their dependence on these latter domestic resources,
especially in view of the expected increase in highway expenditure, some Road Funds
are considering introducing tolls on major new highways. Furthermore, two preliminary
studies on the highway sector propose that fuel and oil taxes be increased and that Road
Funds receive part of the revenue from  road user charges now accruing to the budget
of the Federal Governmnent. The authorities are considerirlgy these and othier proposals.
IV. 'rHE li ROJECT
A.   General Descriptioni
4.01       Thc project comprises:
(a)   Constructioni and supervision of five paved highway sections totaling about
153 kni (see Map), as follows:



(i)  in the Republic of' Macedonia, a two-lanie section (36 km) between
Skopje and Tetovo, atInd a two-lane scction (54 kni) bctween Kicevo
and St. Raznio (Olbrid);
(ii)   in tlhe RepuIblic ol' Slovenia, a I'our-lanie divided expressway (9 kim)
between Postojna aniLl RazLdrto, and  a two-lane expressway (49 kin)
between lloce and Levec; and
(iii)   in the Autoniomous Province of' Kosovo., a two-lane section (5 kiii)
between Kosovo Polje and Pristina.
(b)   Purchases of engineering equipment (mainly traffic couLiters, vehicle weighing
scales, and laboratory equipment) for use by the Road Funds and Road
COulIcilS.
(c)   ConisultinLg service, to 1lu'.P 1he Road Funds and Councils ol' the lRepublics
and Provinces improve lriinway pLamnning, research, maintenance, and project
preparation.
(d)   Training abroad of qualified staff employed by the Road Funds and Road
Councils, and closely associated institutes and enterprises in fields such as:
highway, traffic, and maintenance engineering; transpor-tation economics; and
accounting.
B.   Highway Construction (see Map)
(a)   Macedonia: Skopje-Tetovo (36 kni) and Kicevo-St. Razmo (Ohrid) (54 kn)
4.02       Construction of these two sections would complete to modern paved standards
tour sections of the 255 km long "Western Road", linking Skopje to the Albanian and
Greek borders, via Tetovo-Gostivar-Kicevo-St. Razmo (Ohrid), and connecting to luropean
highways E5S and E27 in Skopje and E20 in Greece. The Bank is already helping to
fiinance the Gostivar-Kicevo section under the Third llighway Project. Large segnments of
the road, including the Kicevo-St. Razimo section, are in very poor condition and through
tratfic between Skopje and Ohrid is forced to take a long detour via the Central Hlighway
(199 km  instead ot' 144 km). The inadequate road conditions have hindered  the
development of the agricultural, forest, mining, and tourism potentials of the area, including
Lake Ohrid and its environs which are rapidly becoming important tourist ceniters. The
new road would be on a better alignment and would provide a more direct route between
Skopje and Ohrid. Thus the potentials of the area could be developed fully and new
facilities, such as the airport at Ohrid, could be used maximally.
4.03       The Skopje-Tetovo project section is in rolling terrain and would parallel the
existing two-lane paved road, which cannot handle present traffic effectively because of
its narrowness, poor geometric standards, and weak foundation covered by a thin and



9
uneven roadway surface. Major pavement failures are occurring and maintenance is
expensive; reconstruction would cost more than building a new road and would interfere
with traffic. The existing road would be retained for animal-drawn vehicles. The Kicevo-St.
Razmo projcct section follows a new alignment through rolling to mountainous terrain
and would replace a narrow earth-gravel road, which is primitive and impassable during
rain an(l snow.
(b)   Slovenia: Postojna-Razdrto (9 kin) andc Iloce-Levec (49 km)
4.04        Thle two project sections are part ol' Furopean llighway E93, whiicih affords
access to  Austria (Vienna) and  to  Italy  (Trieste), provides an importalnt route for
international i'reiglht transit and( tourism, and serves otC of' the miost developed regions
in Yugoslavia, includling the Adriatic ports of Koper and Rijeka. Thie existing two-lane
paved highway traverses several towJns and villages in mountainOuS terrain, and isgenerally
narrow  with steep gradients and sharp curves. The pavemenlt structure is weak, subject
to f'rost damage, and inadequate for present traffic. The road sections are heavily congested
despite measures prohibiting animal-drawn vehicles and restricting truck traffic during
weekends in the tourist season. Slovenia has given first priority to improvement of this
road and has planned its phased replacement over the next 10 to 15 years with a four-
lane divided expressway operated as a toll road. The existinrg road would be retained for
local traffic and traffic wishing to avoid tolls.
4.05        The first phase of replacement, involving the access to Italy, was started under
the Third Highway Project with construction of the Vrhnika-lPostojna section (35 km)
as a four-lane toll road. The proposed Postojna-Razdrto project section would be an
extension of this toll road. Construction of the Iloce-Levec project section would start
the second phase ol' replacemenlt by improving access to Atustria. This section carries less
traffic than the Postojna-Razdrto section and would be built initially as a two-lane
expressway without tolls. When future traffic warrants, the expressway would be widened
to four lanes and tolls would be introduced.
(c)   Kosovo:  Kosovo Polje-Pristina (5 km)
4.06        The only gap in the new paved trunk road between Pec and Pristina is the
5 km long, two-lane cobblcstone section between Kosovo Polje and Pristina, which carries
local trafi'ic at the outskirts of' Pristina (the capital of Kosovo). The Fourth Project included
two sectionis of' the l'ec-Pristina Road, but excluded this last sectioin because feasibility
studies and detailed eniginieering had not been completed. The existing narrowv section in
Flat terrain is olteil lloode(d and lias neither shoulders nor an adequate foundationi. It
is (luickly breaking utp becaiuse of heavy tral'fic and repairs are continLuously required,
which will urnI.t iply as traffic increases. Recoiistruction wouid not be feasible as it would
be too expCensive and would interf'erie witlh traffic. The proiect sectioil would parallel thie
existing road, wlhichl wouldl still be used lor animilal-drawrn carts.



10 -
(d)   Access and Connecling koads to Project Highways (Annex A)
4.07       'TVhe proposed project wouil(d not includc iMp-ovemienlts and/or construction
ot' any access anid connllecting roads rcqt uired to accoInnio(Lte tilC expected traf'ic Ironii
the project highiways; tlihsc wor-ks will be fiiianiced citirely by the relevant autthorities.
Annex A gives details ol' the roads re(quirintg ilmprovemllent by the Iimiie the project sections
are com1pleted. During  loan  Cnegotiations, the  Bank  o0tained  aSSurances 1'roni tihe
Governnment that the re(quired work would be carried out and(I also thiat all sucih roads
would be maintained and improvedl as reasonably required f'ar optimnum  utilizationi of the
project sections.
(e)   Design Standards and Elngineering (Table 12)
4.08        The proposed designi standards for construction are similar to those used for
the Third and Fourth llighway Projects and are satisfactory. All detailed design and
engineering cost estimates t'o, tiie -,;'Jecl .,ctions have been completed by competent
Yugoslav consultinig engineers and id e saislaciory. Bidding documnents are scheduled to
be completed in June 1971; they are expected to be substantially the same as those
approved by the Bank for the earlier higlhway projects.
C.   Equipment Purchases (Table 13)
4.09        The Republics and Provinces need to further imrprove the methods of collecting
traffic data, controlling motor vehicle weight limitations, aLnd preparing projects (para.
3.09). Although they already have some equipment for these task.s, the project provides
for the purchase of additional traf'fic counters, vehicle weighing scales, laboratory
equipment, and office equipment (e.g. microfilm machines). It also provides for purchase
of a new  type of pavement "profiler" to test the structural capacity of existing roads.
Table 13 indicates equipment requirements and cost estimates. These initial requirements
are reasonable.
D.   Consulting Services and Staff Training Abroad
4.1 0       Although considerable expertise on highway matlers is available in Yugoslavia,
experience is still limited in specific tields such as transportation economics, preparation
of feasibility studies, traffic engineerinig, and some aspeets of highway design and
mainteniance. To improve their expertise, the Road Funds are interested in employing
qualified and experienced experts from a loreign consulting firrn and in providiing additional
training abroad for selected members ot' their staff and closely associated institutes and
enterprises (mainly economic institutes and highway maintenance enterprises) (para. 3.09).
4.11        Details of the consulting services and training prograrmi were reviewed during
loan negotiations. The consulting services would involve eight to twelve experts, each for
varying periods of up to two years, or a total of about 120 mani-montils. The services
would be made available to the Republics and Provinces, which would designate an



- l  -
appropriate executing agency and appoint qualified counterparts. The training program
would cover about 60 professional staff members, on average for six months training
abroad, over a three-year period. The executing agency designated for the consulting services
would also be responsible for the overall administration of the training program.
E.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Costs
(Tables 13 and 14 and Annex B)
4.12        Total project costs, includ(ing contini,genicies, and ttlC best estimates ol' loreigni
exchange costs, are given in the lollowing table. Taxes and dIUtieCS are local costs and
represent about 1 2'  ot total construction costs.
4.13       'I'le constructioni cost estimates (Table 14) are based on quantities obtained
f'rom completed designs (para 4.08) and on unit prices frorr contracts recently awarded,
but adjusted in January 1971 to reflect the devaluation of the dinar. As witlh the earlier
Bank highway projects, supervision costs have been taken as a percentage (5%) of the
estimated construction cost. The equipment costs are based on the list givell in Table
13 and on prevailing c.i.f. unit prices for similar equipment. The estimated costs of
consulting services and staff training abroad are based on current average man-month rates.
These cost estimates are realistic.
4.14        A 10% contingency allowance for quantity overruns is believed to be adequate
for all project elements. Regarding price contingencies, the costs of highway construction
in Yugoslavia rose about 5-6% p.a. in 1969 and 1970. However, it would be appropriate
to provide an allowance of 8% p.a. to cover possible local cost increases since the eff'ects
of devaluation on t'uture prices is uncertain, and of 6%  p.a. for foreigni cost increases
between January 1971 when the project cost estimates were adjusted and the schieduled
(lates for completing the dif't'erent parts of tihe project. These percentages are consistent
with those used in other projects in Yugoslavia for which Bank loans have recently been
negotiated.
4.15        The  Government's  estimates  of the  foreigrn  exchange  component of
construction and equipment purchases take into account the recent devaluation of the
dinar and are satisfactory. The foreign exchange cost of consulting services and staff training
are based on B1ank experience. According to the most probable estimate, the foreigni
exchange cost of construction, including supervision and contingencies, would be US$28.6
million, or 34%i, of the total cost. This estinmate assumes that none of the conlstructioni
contracts would be awarded to a foreign firm, which has been the experience unlder previous
highway projects. The cost estirnates for equipment (mainly weighing scales and some
traff'ic counters) assumne that contracts totaling about US$250,000 might be won by
(loiflestic manuLflacturers. Thle (Government estimalted that the t'oreign exchange component
of these contricts might amiount to 40%/0, or US$ 100,000.



Foreign
Din millions                  1JS$ millions            Exchange
Item                           Local Foreign    Total        Local Foreign    Total         Component
I. Construction of 5
highway sections: /a
Skopje-Tetevo                 76.8   37.9      114.7         5.1    2.5        7.6           33
Kicevo-St. Razmo              82.1   44.2      126.3         5.5    2.9        8.4            35
Postojna-Razdrto              71.3   40.3       111.6        4.7    2.7        7.4            37
Hoce-Levec                   350.4  205.8       556.2       23.4   13.7       37.1            37
Kosovo Polje-Pristina          9.2    6.2        15.4        0.6    0.4        1.0           40
Sub-Total                  7                 9.    22.2                     61.5 
Supervision of I                41.6    4.6        46.2        2.9    0.3        3.2           10
Sub-Total I                631.4  339.0      970.h       h42.2   22.5       64.7           35
Contingencies on I Ab          204.0   91.8       295.8       L3.6    6.1       19.7            31
Total I                    835.4  L(1)-   1,266.2        ',5.8   28.6       84.4           34
II. Engineering Equipment:
Imported                       -      24.0       24.0         -     1.60       1.60         100
Domestically procured          2.3    1.5         3.8        0.15   0.10       0.25           40
Sub-Total                    2.3   757        277n       -757r  -T771                     -79
Contingencies /b                 0.4    4.5         4.9        0.03   0.30       0.33           92
Total II                     2.7   30.0       32.7        0.18   2.00        2.18          92
III.  Consulting Services               8.3    8.3       16.6        0.55   0.55        1.10          50
Contingencies /b                 1.1    1.1         2.2        0.07   0.07       0.14           50
Total III                    9.4    9.4       18.8        0.62   0.62        1.24          50
IV.  Training Abroad                   -      3.8        3.8         -      0.25       0.25         100
Contingencies /b                 -       0.5        0.5         -      0.03      0.03         100
Total IV                     -       4.3       4.3          -     0.28       0.28         100
Total I - IV
(less contingencies)       642.0  376.6   1,018.6        42.90  25.00       67.90          37
Contingencies              205.5   97.9      303.4       13.70   6.50       20.20          32
Total I - IV
(with contingencies)       847.5  474.5   12322.0        56.60  31.50       88.10          36
/a The construction estimate excludes the cost of land acquisition (US$3.0 million), project
preparation (US$3.6 million) and access and connecting roads (US$3.2 million), which have
been or will be borne by Macedonia, Slovenia, and Kosovo.
Ab Quantities: 10% on I-IV.
Prices: 8% p.a. on local currency component and
6% p.a. on foreign exchange component



- 13 -
F.   Project Financing and Execution (Annex C)
4.16       The proposed loan would finance 38%  (US$32.1 million) of the cost of
construction and supervision and the foreign exchange cost (US$2.9 million) of equipment
purchases, consulting services, and staff training abroad. Tlle Bank's participation in
construction and supervision woul(d cover the foreign exchange component (US$28.6
mlillioll) anIL somle local currecicy expendituire (US$3'.5 millioni).
4.1 7       [Ie  loan would be mzade to the Fecdcral Government, whichi would releiid
the proceeds to tlhe benc'iciary Republics andl Provinces at substanitially the samc teriis
as those of the loan. The proceeds allocated to construction would be relent by means
of three Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the proceeds allocated to equipment purchases,
consulting services, and staff training by means of a single Relending Agreement. A
condition of' the el'fectiveness of the loan would be the enactment of satisfactory Subsidiary
Loan and Relending Agreements. As for all previous highway projects, the Federal
Government has agreed to appoint the Yugoslav Investment EBank as fiscal agent, or focal
point, for coordinating such aspects of project execution as international competitive
bidding and withdrawal applications.
4.18       The Federal Government and the three Subsidiary Borrowers have indicated
that adequate local funds would be available to carry out the project, as well as necessary
improvements of access roads. Under previous highway projects, the Bank reviewed the
financing plans of each Subsidiary Borrower and required the enactment of Decisions on
Financing, whereby the necessary funds for highway projects are identified and committed.
These arrangements have ensured sufficient local funds for all previous highway projects
financed by the Bank. During loan negotiations, the detailed financing plans of each
Subsidiary Borrower were reviewed and it was agreed that the passing of satisfactory
Decisions on Financing would be a condition of effectivencss of the loan.
4.19        Slovenia plans to levy tolls on the Postojna-Razdrto section and on the
Hoce-Levec section when it is later expanded to a four-lane expressway (para. 4.05). The
Republics concerned with the Third and Fourth Highway Projects agreed on certain
principles for toll roads, as follows. Tolls would be considerecd additional road user charges
and would be pooled with other road user receipts. When applied, tolls would be set
at reasonable levels and in a flexible manner to ensure optimurn use of the project highiway
and alternative routes or means of transportation. The debt service of any loan lor
conistructing toll highways would be independent of toll revenue. The Road Fund would
be responsible l'or collecting tolls and lor maintaining the toll hiiglhways and facilities.
D)uring loan nlCgOtialtionS, assLjrances were obtained from Slovenia that the same principles
would apply to its project lhiglhway sections.
4.20        Macedonia. Sloveniia, an(d Kosovo have namiiedl the following entities as
CXCCutinIg IgCllCiCS lor constrLucting the project highway sections:



- 14 -
Republic or
HLighway Sections                   Province               _xecuting Agency
Skopje-'retovo and
Kicevo-St. Razino (Ohirid)        Macedonia              Road Fund of' Macedonia
Postojina-Razdrto andl
lloce-Levec                       Sloveniia              Road Fund of' Slovenia
Kosovo Polje-Pristina             Kosovo                 Road Maintenance
Frnterprise of Kosovo
Construction would be supervised by the executing agencies indicated above, assisted by
Yugoslav consultants and institutes experienced in soils and materials testing whicih preparel
the detailed higliway desigins. Undcer the Rclending Agreement, a suitably (qualitied
institution is to be designated as CxcCutitwg ;giency responsible l'or equipment pLurchases,
consultinig services, an(d staff traininlg (para. 4. 11).
4.2 1      The firm  for consulting services would be selected and the staff training
program  carried out according to procedures acceptable to th- Bank. Contracts for
construction and for equipment would be awarded to prequalifie(i firms on the basis of
international competitive bidding, except in the following two cases. First, about US$2.3
million of preparatory construction works in Slovenia (Hoce-Levec section) would be
confined to domestic bidding because they involve numerous small vworks, such as relocating
drainage and irrigation structures, which would be unattractive to foreign firms. Second,
about US$500,000 of imported equipment would involve contracts for items or groups
of similar items each with a value of less than US$ 10,000. International competitive bidding
for these relatively small contracts would be inappropriate; instead contracts would be
awarded, subject to Bank approval, on the basis of quotations received from  selected
suppliers.
4.22       For international competitive bidding purposes, three of the five project
highway sections have been divided into ten subsections (see Annex C); prequalifiedl
contractors would be able to bid for one or more subsections andi the contract would
be awarded otn the basis of the lowest combination of acceptable bids for each project
section. Of the twelve international bidding sections, one is valued at about US$ I million
and the others range in value from US$2 million to US$8 million. For equipment, similar
items would be grouped whenever possible into economic bidding packages and domestic
and foreign manufacturers would be able to bid subject to prior prequalification. In the
evaluation of bids, dcomestic manufacturers would be given a preference in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.23       The period for prequalification and for preparin)g constructioni bids would be
45 and 90 days respectively, except for the preparatory construction works tor whlicti
bids would be invited from a list of prequalified domestic firms and the bidding period



- 15 -
would be limited to 30 days. Prequalification procedures for international bidding are
scheduled to begin in May  1971  and bid invitations for construction are tentatively
scheduled for mid-August 1971. The preparatory construction works in Slovenia (para.
4.21) are likely to start in the last half of 1971, and the other works in the first half
of 1972; all works should be completed early in 1976. Elquipment purchases would be
completed in 1973, and consulting services and staff training in 1974.
G.   D)isbursements (Aniiiex D))
4.24        D)isbturse ments ol the loan WOUld he agailnsI approved contracts and releva;nIt
(bOClill mleta tioln, as lollows:
Iliglhway construction - 38%o ol paymaents to conilsruction contractors.
Supervisioni - 38X, of supervision Costs (such Costs would be taken to be 5'%,
ot payments to construction conitractors).
Equipment - 100%  of the c.i.f. landed cost of imported equipment; and 40%,
of the cost of domestically manufactured equipment.
Consulting services - the foreign exchange costs of payments to consultants.
Staff Training - the foreign exchange costs of staff training abroad.
4.25        The Bank would have the option of reducing the disbursement percentage
against conistructioll Costs, it they increase, so tlhat disbursemnents arc related to tllic progrcss
of constr-uctioni expeniditures.  Additional re(luirelnlenits for equipmlenit and consulting
services miay arise (luring project execution and it is recommended that any surplus lunds
in thie Loan Account not required for construction be used for these purposes, subject
to appropriate justification and prior Bank approval. Any suirplus remaining in the Loan
Account and not required for project purposes would be cancelled. Annex D sets forth
a schedule of cumulative quarterly loan disbursements.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General (Tables 14-16)
5.01        '['lie condition and characteristics of the existingi road sections are indicated
in Chapter IV. The costs used in the econiomic evaluation are indicated in Table 14.
FLxpectecl traffic oiln ea.ch ol' the live project sections in Macedonia, Slovenia, and Kosovo
is indcicated  in Table  1.5. These torecasts are based on  past traffic trelnds; recent
origin-andI-destination  studies; and  projectionis of production, tourism, and per capita
incomae in the zon1es of influence of the project highway sections. They take into account



- 16 -
the limited  capacity  of related highways, as well as additional traff'ic generated by
connecting higlhways whiich are being improved. In general, the projectionis assume that
traffic growth on the project roads will gradually decline 'roill rmabout 15/ p.a. durilig
the past five years to about 5'Y,, p.a. after 1990.
5.02       In selectitng the proposed investmiients, thc Road Funds evaluated several
alternative solutions suchi as reconistructinig the existing road(. constructing a niew one, stage
construction of' four lancs and pavemenits, trLck crawlinig lines, etc. [or each project
higlhway section the Imlost economical solution has been adopted. In eaclh case, new
construction is more economical than reconstruction because of the poor alignment andi
other poor f'eatures of existing roads and/or the high cost of widening them in heavily
settled areas.
5.03       The Skopje-Tetovo section in Macedonia and the two sections in Slovenia
parallel railway lines but their improvement is not expected to attract a significant volume
of railway traffic. In Macedon a, tl, r nilway supplies the Skopje steel mill with iron ore
from  a mine near Kicevo and carri;s Li vcry small volumle of passengers and freight. In
Sloveinia, mnost local passenger traffic is already carried by bus and most high-value f'reiglht
by truck. The Slovenian railways convey mostly international passenger traffic and bulk
commodities which are better transported by rail than by road; they also carry somiie
commnuLters.
5.04       The economic benefits taken into account are saving,s in road maintenance
and in vehicle operating costs. The expected unit savings in vehicle operating costs, ranging
between 14% and 43% for passenger cars (including those of tourists) and between 19%
and 47%  for trucks, represent the difference between the costs on the new road and
on the existing one without any improvement; they are consistent with Bank experience
in similar circumstances. These unit savin-s would be achieved when the new roads are
opened tor traffic; the higher unit savings in later years, as congestion on the existing
roads increases, have not been taken into account. Also, timne savings accruing to private
cars and passengers in buses, possible reductions in accident rates, and the greater comfort
of traveling on the new roads have not been considered. The above uniit savings, therefore,
unlderstate the full econiomic benefits of the proposed investments. Or this basis, the project
sectionls would yield rates of return ranging from  15%Y, to 20%.
B.   Macedonia: Skopje-Tetovo and Kicevo-St. Razino (Ohrid)
5.05       The full potential of this section as a major highway will not be realized
until road transport through Albania is normalized, particular]ly between the Adriatic Coast
and Ohrid. Although relations have improved recently, the possibility of such normalization
has been disregarded in the traffic forecast. On the Skopje-Tetovo section, present traffic
of 2,000 vpd is expected to grow  10% p-a during the next few years. The existing road
would be retained for about 300 animal-drawn vpd. Savings in vehicle operation and
highway miaintenance costs would yield a rate of return oft about 20%A. Trafl'fic on the
Kicevo-St. Razmo section is limited to about 200 vpd; recent origin-and-destination studies



- 17 -
indicate that about 500 vpd would normally use the road. WShen the new road is built,
traffic which has been detouring will be attracted; this has been taken into account in
estimating total savings. It is estimated that the proposed investment in the new road
would yield a 15% rate of return.
C.   Slovenia: Postojna-Razdrto and Hoce-Levec
5.06       About 53%  ol' the national incomc of Slovenia is produced in the zon0C of
influence of' these two project sections. Trafi'c on the existinig l'ostojna-Razdrto road
amounted to about 8,400 vpd in 1970. During the past few years, traffic growtlh exceeded
15%, p.a. It is likely that traffic will increase about 10%; p.a. during the seventies and
thereafter at a declininig rate, to about 5'%o in the nineties. O)rigin-and-destination studies
inidicate that over 75%S of' the traffic would divert to a new facility, while less than 25%Y
would remain on the existing road. A l'our-lane divided expressway will be needed withini
the next few years to accommodate the expected traffic. Engineering and econotnic studies
indicate that construction of four lanes would be more economnical than stage construction
and that the proposed investment would yield a 16% rate of return.
5.07       Traffic on the existing Hoce-Levec road amounted in 1970 to about 5,300
vpd and is expected to grow at about the same rate as on the Postojna-Razdrto section.
About 70% of the traffic would divert to the new highway, while 30% would remaini
on the present road (mainly local traffic between several villages along the road). A four-lane
divided expressway will also be needed in a few years to accommodate the expected
diverted traffic. However, engineering and economic studies show that it would be more
economical to build the highway in stages: two lanes should be built immediately and
the other two by approximately 1980. Savings in vehicle operating costs and highway
maintenance costs would yield a rate of return of 15% on investment in the first stage.
D.   Kosovo: Kosovo Polje-Pristina
5.08       This road will handle an important volume of' through traffic from  1972
onwards when the new road to Pec, a town of 70,000 people about 80 km from Pristina,
will have been completed. Total traffic that year is expected to reach 4,300 vpd and
to grow 15% p.a. in the immediate years thereafter. The existing road will carry about
200 animal-drawn vpd. The proposcd investment would yield a rate of return of 18%'.
E.   Summary (Table 17)
5.09       The  project would  produce  satisfactory  benefits, even  if' unfavorable
circumstances were to develop. It is estimated that individual project sections would yield
rates of return varying from  15'/% to 20'%,, according to most probable estimates of
construction costs, vehicle operating costs, base-year traffic, and traffic growth. All sections
would yield f'irst-year benefits exceeding 1lO% of' the proposed investment. Sensitivity tests
show  that a variation of' 10% in the construction costs combined with 10%', variatioins
in vehicle operating savings, and in base-year traffic volumres and traffic growth would



- 18 -
result in rates varying from  12% to 15%YG if the circumstances were unfavorable, and from
20%  to 25% if favorable. Furthermore, as explained in para. 5.04, these rates do not
reflect the full benefits which would be derived from the proposed investments. The above
results, therefore, indicate that the proposed project would be well justified.
Vt. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01       During loan negotiations, the Government gave a number of assurances; the
most important of these follow.  The Federal Governmenl., in cooperation with the
Republics and Provinces, will revise existing laws and regulations related to the highway
sector, and consider further measures for improving coordination in the highway sector
(paras. 3.08 and 3.09). The three Subsidiary Borrowers involved in construction works
also agreed to ensure adequate maintenance of the roads for which they are responsible
and to further improve the collecl on of traffic data and the control over dimensions
and axle-loads of vehicles (para. 3.G3.
6.02       Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be the execution of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements and of the Relending Agreernent, and the enactment by each
of the three Subsidiary Borrowers of Decisions on Financing, all satisfactory to the Bank
(paras. 4.17 and 4.18).
6.03       With the assurances indicated above, the proposed project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$35 million, with a term of 25 years, including a five-year
grace period.



TABLE 1
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Freight Traffic by Mode of Transport,, 1958-1970
Traffic (nillion ton-km)
Maritime                 Highway
Inland               Trucking      Own
Year            Railway    Waterway  Coastal  Enterprises  Account              Total
1958            13,031       1,b91       257          56o         945         16,284
1959            13,974       1,636       499          816       1,022         17,947
1960            15,191       2,009       390        1,C)16      1,928         20,534
1961            14,941       2,085       370        1,35?       2,208         20,986
1962           -15,033       2,212       358        1,,615      2,357         21,575
1963            17,345       2,569       376        2,024       3,155         25,469
19614           lh,258       3,108       370        2,399       4,424         28,559
1965           1T,036        3,313       407        3,029       5,382         30,167
1966            17,518       3,853       34?        3,612      6,695         32,020
1967            16,390       3,94k       246        4,J000      7,373         ?1,951
1968            16,372       4,334       674        4,832       8,956         35,168
1969            17,691       2,815       215        5,563       9,013         35,297
First six mouths
1969             8,164       1,189       107        2.!75        n.a.         n.a.
1970             8,lh78      1,581       122        2,i896       n.a.          n.a.
Average distance (km)
1965               241         359       283           84          17
1966               244         364       199           91          18
1967               238         358       147           98          20
1968               239         347       362          1.10         22
1969               252         237       142           98          18
Source:  Federal Bureau of Statistics, Statistical Bulletins and others
April 22, 1971



TABLE 2
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Passenger Traffic by Mode of Trsrisport,_95-1970
Traffic (nillion pass)
P                 er  Airway  Maritime  Inland
Year    Railway      Bus l/     Car -    Domestic Coastal Waterway            Total
1958     8,877       1,760        425      60       359?       30            11,511
1959     9,250       2,231        580       8       352        26            12,521
1960    10,4h9       2,826      1,877     114       370        27            15,663   ik
1961    10,089       3,139      2,620     136       36-L       23            16,368   _
1962     9,908       3,315      3,492     165       3413       21            17,249
1963    10,673       3,876      1,236      267      3014       16            19,372
1964    1z,308       1,63          -       366      241        18            22,894
1965    12,800       6,025      6,6314     480      21'        16            26,170
1966    12,196       7,986      8,879      537      1914       15            29,807
10,753      9,599      7,81414/   532      119         8            28,885
1968    10,281      10,686    10,245      620       165         9            32,009
1969    10,404      Lz,547    12,906       890      182        12            36,941]
First csb: months
1969     4.,928      5,722      n.a.      330        52         5              n.a.
1970     5,1.2       6,532      n.a.      347        63         4              n.a.
Average Distance (kn)
1965         5h         28       n.a.      757      44         43
1966         57         27       n.a.      907      50         146
1967         55         26       n.a.      833      36         37
1968         56         25       n.a.      835      47        168
1969         64         26       n.a.      80G      38        221
l/ Interurban public services only.
2/ Estimates for 1958-1966 based on the assumption that each
passenger car traveled about 16,100 km annuaLlly with an average
occupancy rate of 2.5 persons per car.
3/ Estimates for 1967-1969 based on the assumption that each
passenger car traveled about 10,300 km annually with an average
occupancy rate of 2.5 persons per car.
Source:  Federal Bureau of Statistics, Statistical Bulletins and others
April 22, 1971



TABLE 3
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cargo Handled by the Main Ports, 1958-1969
(thousand m tons)
RiJeka  Sibenik       Split      Ploce  Dubrovni.k   Koper    bar
1958       3,817      742       1,4B5        525       249        30      32
1959       3,965      875       1.,873       429       321        48      21
1960        4,055     724       1,689        487       381        106     23
1961        4,057     762       1,729        572       460        161     35
1962        4,645     960       1S960        632       440        252    56
1963        5,943     937        2,401       645       504        609     79
1964        5,841      941       2,330       730       571        658   131
1965        6,205      960       2,015        758      568        762    223
1966        8,386    1,039       2,107       797        388       750    441
1967        7,966     680       1,626      1,017       315        813    607
1968        8,436      560      1,527      1,165        248     1s100    616
Source: Federal Bureau of Statistics
April 22, 1971



YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Roads in the Six Republics and Two Autonomous Provinces,  969   /
R e p u b l i c s                                                     Autonomous Provinces
Bosnia-2-                                                                                                              Total
Type of Surface         Road Class       H                Croatia       Macedonia  Mb ntenegro         Serbia   2 Slovenia          Kosovo    Vojvodina         R 11 cs
Ppved                        I             1,011            2,241          598             472          2,909           811           359          661           8,042
II               530           1,893          391              191          2,363        1,200            151          949           6,568
III               112           1,426            79              44          1,782          764             84          565           4,207
IV                23             312          388               12            699          372            594        2 175           1 806
Sub-Total               I -IV              7_  36                                       719          7,1 37                     T7                           20,6233
Gravel                       I               693              232          274              142            364           22            49          --             1,727
II             1,882           1,965          429              329          i.747          498            153          386           6,850
III             1,589           4,779           309             264          3, /16       3,120            198          682          13,777
IV               132           8,958          649            1,344          :,526        6,153            401        1 068          22 762
Sub-Total               I - IV          4,296          15,934,1                       2,079            33         9,793            5021  45T
I               __                 1          31              __              6t          __              12           14              93
II               --                2           56              __             464          __              96          220             522
III               --               132          297             --           1,930          __             128          654           2,359
IV             3345            1 553        3 263                         112 821          --             235          888          20,982
Sub-Total               I - IV                                                                        Az= 4 --  -T1T --            h777677                   23,956
All Types                    I             1,704           2,474           903             61i4         3,334          833            420          675           9,862
II             2,lI12          3,860          876              520          4,574        1,698           1400        1,555          13,940
III             1,701           6,337          685              308          7,428        3,884           410         1,901          20,343
IV             3] 500         10, 823       4,I300           1 356         19 046        6 525          1 230       4 131           45 550
Total                   I - IV           .1=                                                                                      -2                         949.
1/  Class IV Public Road figures for 1968.
2/ Includes roads in the Autonomous Provinces of Kosovo and VojvodLna.
Sources  Federal Bureau of Statistics
April 22, 1971



TABLE 5
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Modernization of the Highway Syst.n,1958-1969 I'
(km)
Annual Increase of      Total Length of
Year               Paved Road Network      Paved Road Network
1958                      833                    5,01'4
1959                    1,047                    6,061
1960                      699                    6,760
1961                      985                    7,745
1962                    1,255                    9,000
1963                    1,053                   10,053
1964                    1,544                   11,597
1965                    1,353                   12,950
1966                    1,,424                  14,374
1967                    1,614                   15,988
1968                    2,71b                   18,703
1969                    3,0)1                   21,744
1/ All types of paved roads better than gravel roads; many
are former gravel roads paved with a thin bituminous surface
which, in general, will require reconstruiction in the next few
years.
Source: Federal Bureau of Statistics, Statistical Bulletins, 1958-1969
April 22, 1971



TABLE 6
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Registered Motor Vehicle Fleet, 3g58-:l969
(thousands of muits)
Motor-     Passenger                        Trailers
Year        cycles        Cars       Buses    Trucks   and others       Total
1958          37.6        28.3        3.9       43.6      12.8          126.2
1959         514.5        39.0       14.6       49.8      16.3          1614.2
1960         69.7         Ulbl 5.1              54.6      19.14         203.0
1961         72.1         75.5        5.2       50.5      16.6          219.9
1962>        91.0         97.9        6.1       58.0      19.2          272.a
1963         98.0        112.5        6.6       64.5)     20.3          301.9
19614       102.2        141.8        7.4       72.6      21.8          345.8
1965        106.14       187.8        8.2       814.14    24.7          1411.5
1966        112.3        253.3        9.8       98.8      27.6          501.8
1967        111.9        355.9       11.2      117.2      31.7          627.9
1968        107.0        439.9       12.3     12e.9       33.1          715.2
1969        111.9        562.5       13.3     131.2       36.o          854.9
Source: Federal Bureau of Statistics, Statistical Bulletins and
others, 1958-1 969
April 22, 1971



TABLE 7
YUGOSLAVIA
EIFTH HIGHW9AY PROJECT
Production and Import of New Vehicles, 1960-1969
(units)
Year             Cars          Motorcycles         Trucks           Buses
Production
1960            10,461           hi,41,4            4.,56!            899
1961            14,999           37,751             5,L426            829
1962            13,125           31,968             6,9454 hjhlj
1963            20,?93           43,113             7,975           1,8?2
1964            27,854           48,142             9,081           2,369
1965            35,880           48,774             9,572           2,287
1966            37,687           48,773             8,870           2,899
1967            47,888           49,559             9,654           2,h21
1968            59,381           58,481           -10,h65            ',857
1969            80,454           53,739            11,097           3,162
Imports
1960             1,150            7,913               277               75
1961             1,b47           11,292               6I9               39
1962               454            2,017               103             125
1963               953               142              527                1
1964             4,785               972            1,563               10
1965            13,049               929            1,544               50
1966            20,199             3,136            1,015               $9
1967            50,303            6,376             7,677              241
1968            53,035           11,117             5,542             6L0
1969            57,235           10,557             2,7W4              245
Exports
0                1960               266             3,594 %44                            77
1961               221.           6,007                30               96
1962               86e             5,392              218              126
1963               11h            5,46i               271              168
196[               67T             9,158              t61               31
1965             6,170            8,701             1 ,88               91
1966             3,621            9,375             1,q89             216
1967             5,60?            h,010               555 -              7
1968               961            8,900               461               51S
1969             1,897           10,296               263              P2
Source: Federal Bureau of Statistics, Statistical Bulletins, 1958-1969
and Statistics of Foreign Trade, 1958-L969
April 22, 1971



TABLE 8
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Financing of Highway Expenditures, 1958-1970
(Din millions)
Federal               Regional and               Total Investment
Year          Government_          Local Autborltee              and Maintenance
1958               161                      180                          341 3
1959              199                       203                          402
1960               271                      223                          494
1961               370                      277                          647
1962              326                       324                          650
1963              316                      X482                          798
1964              4211                     614                         1,025
1965              193                       802                          995
1966              140                       908                        1,048
1967               207                   1,224                         1,431
1968              286                    1,679                        1,965
1969 /            210                     2,208                        2,418
197U/'            n.a.                    n.a.                         2,800
1/ Investment only.
7/ Fnmding of highway investments and maintenance by Republics, districts.,
communities, donations from industrial and commercial enterprises,and,
public loans; the latter two sources account for less than 10% of the
total.
3/ Preliminary estimate.
Source: Federal Secretariat for Economy
April 22, 1971



TABLE 9
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH IIIGHWAY PR0OJECT
Highway Expenditures in 1969
(Din millions)
tPopublics
and
Autonomous            New                                 Paving of                 2/
*    Provinces          Construction      Reconstruction       Gra-vel Roads   Maintenance - Tota
Bosnia -                                                        3/
Herzegovina         85                  203                42             86
Croatia               77                  219                56            176          528
Macedonia              6                   54                  -            29           85
Montenegro            93                   17                               14          12L
Serbia                95                  281                 -             82          45E
Slovenia              25                    9                 4            152          19C
Kosovo               120                   42                  -             7          169
Vojvodina             -                   157                 -              6          20
Total          01                  982               102           _22
l/ Excludes cost of highway administr)-tion, debt service, and other financial
obli-gations of the Road Funds.
2/ Includes winter service and periodic maintenance.
3/ Includes unspecified works amounting to Din 42 million.
Source: Federal Secretariat for Economy
April 22, 1971



TABLE 10
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH HIG(HWAY PROJECT
Estimated Revenue from Road User Charges and its Distribution in 1970
(Din  millions)
Revenue                 Distribution
Road User Chares       Total       Federation   Leublics   koad Funds
Federal Sales Taxes
Fuel                  779            623         156
Oil                   525           420          105
Sub-total       1,304          1,043          261
Custom Duties           81)             '0                      -
Additional taxes on
Fuel and Oil        1,052                         -          1,052
License Tees            168            -                         168
Taxes on Foreign
Vehicles               21                         -             21
Total            3,355          1 853          261         12241
Source: Federal Secretariat for Economy
April 22, 1971



TABLE 11
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Financing of Highway Excpendituresin 196921
(Din millions)
Republics and           Earmarkedi/ Loans and    Federal        Republics and
Autonomous Provinces   Resources       Credits    Government  Municipalities   Othcr   Total
Bosnia-Herzegovina          98           229          21             48             73       469
Croatia                    245            48          -             193             81       567
# edonia                     62            -           -              40              5       107
Montenegro                  28            -           74              22             1       125
Serbia                     242            90         33              87             88      540
Slovenia                   220            -          -               22             38      280
Kosovo                     .25            28         82              23             12      170
Vojvodina                  133            -           -              24              3       160
Total                  1,053           395        210             459            3C1    2,418
1/  Includes cost of highway administration, debt service and other financial
obligations of the Road Funds and Councils.
Revenue from certain taxes on gasoline and oil, license fees, and taxes paid by
foreign motor vehicles entering Yugoslavia; this revenue is earmarked for highway
improvement and maintenance.
Source: Federal Secretariat for Economy
April 22, 1971



TABIE 12
YUWOSLAVIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Design Standards I/ 2/
For Four-Lane Divided Expressways (applied for four lanes on the Pcstojna-Razdrto expressway
section and only for tbo-lanes on the Hoce-Leyws  expreama  section)
Type of Terrain
Design Characteristics                        Unit                Fla             Rolling
Design Speed                                  km/h                 120            120(100)
Maximum Gradient                               %                    2150            4.00
Width of (a) Through Lanes                    Im                 2 0 3.75       2 @ 3.75
(b) Slow Moving LaneIV               m                    _                3.00
Minimum Width of Shoulder
(a) Including Slao
Moving Lane                       m                                    4.o00o
(b) Without Parking Areas
for disabled vehicles            m                     3.00           2.85
(c ) With Parking Areas far
disabled vehicles                m                     1.00            1.00
Minimum Width of Center Median4                m                    It.00          h4.00
Minimum Horizontal Sight Distance
(non-passing)                               m                  35(2            270(200)
Type of Wearing Surface5/                                           Asphalt Concrete
For Two-Lan  Higwayo of Category IIl'(applied for the trunk highwaV
Kosovo Poije-Pristina, SkopJe-Tetovo d Kiorvo-St. Razmo)
Ispe of Terrain
Design Characteristics                        Unit        Rolli.n     Hilly       Mointainous
Design Speed                                  km/h        100(80)      80(60)       60(40)
Maximum Gradient                               %            4          6             6(7)
Width of Lanes                                 m         3.75(3.50)  3.50(3.00)    3.00
Width of Shoulder                              m         2.00(1.50)  1.50(1.00)    1.00
Minimum Horizontal Sight
Distance (non-passing)                         m          185(130)    130(85)       85(50)
Type of Wearing Surface                                           Asphalt  Cono rete
1/ All project roads have been designed for a single-axle-load of 10 m tons. For
standards not covered in this list, the Federal Design Starxlards published in March 1969
will govern.
2/ Exceptional limits are indicated by ( ).
3/ An additional paved lane for heavy trucks and other slow morving motorized traffic on
steep up-gradients.
4/ Not needed initially for the section Hoce-Levec as only one-half of the h-lane expressway
is to be constructed.
,/ Only the asphalt binder course will be placed; an asphalt concrete wearing surface will
be applied in the future when required and is not included in the project.
6/ In mountainous terrain and in such other areas as may be deemed appropriate, parking
areas for disabled vehicles shall be provided.  They shall be 3.0 m wide (measured fmm
the wearing surface edge to the face of guard rail) by 40 m long, spaced at about 0.5 km
intervals on alternate sides of the road.
Sources Road Funds of Macedonia and Slovenia, Road Council of Koeovo, and Federal
Design Standards (March 1969)
April 22, 1971



TABLE 13
YMOSLAVIA
FIF'1  HIGHWAY PROJECT
Equipment Requirements and Cost Estbinates-
kNumber and US$ thousands)
Autonatic Traffic   Portable Weighing      Microfilm        Pavement
Counters             Scales            EquiPment        Profiler           Total
Provinces and Republics    No.                            Cost No.  1Cos            No.     Cost         Cost
Bosnia and Herzegovina      25       115        10         38        1       48      -        -            201
Montenegro                  10        46          6        23         -      -       -         -            69
Croatia                     51       235        15         56        1       48      1       50            389
Macedonia                   20        92         10        38        1       48      -         -           178
Slovenia                    211      110          8        30        1       48      -        -            188
*        Serbia                      40        184         -          -        -       -       -        -            184
Vojvodina                   20        92          -         -         -       -      -                      92
Kosovo                       6        28               -         -            -      -        -             28
Sub-total                                                                          T 7  T  T li     1  I3/  I
Miscellaneous engi-
neering equipment2/ 3/                                                                                 521
Total                                                                                                  1 850
1/  It is expected that about US$250,000 of equipment contracts would be won by domestic manufacturers, mainly
weighing scales and some automatic traffic counters.
2/ Mainly laboratory equipment (soil and material testing)
/  The Pavement Profiler (manufactured by only one firm) and most miscellaneous engineering equipment would not
be subject to international consetitive bidding.
Source:  Road Funds and Councils
April 22, 1971



TABLE 14
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Project Highway Sections
(Din and US$ millions)
Autonomous Province
R2Dublic of Macedonia       Republic of Slovenia              of Kosovo
Skqpje-      Rieevo-       Postojna-        Hoce-          Kosovo Polje-      Total All
Bank Financing        Tetovo      St. Razmo       Razdrto         Levec            Pristina         Sections
_       US$    Din   VS$     _ Din   US$   _      TJS$       Din     U -      D  _      VS$
Eligible:
Construction     114.7   7.6   126.3  8.4   111.6    7.4  556.21/37.12/    15.4         1.0      924.2    61.5
Supervision         5.7   0.4     6.3  0.4      5.6    0.4   27.8   1.9         0.8     0.1       46.2     3.2
Contingencies      36.2   2.4    38.8  2o6   34.2    2.3  183.1  12.2           3.5     0.2      295.8    19.7
Sub-Total    156.6  l0.4   171.4 11.4   151.4   10.1  767.1  51.2          19.7     1.3   1,266.2    84.4
Not Eligible:
Project
Preparation        4.2   0.3     5.3  0.4      4,0    0.3   38.6   2.6         Cl.3    __.       52.4     3.6
Right-of-Way        5.2  0.3      6.6  0.4      4.2    0.3  30.7   2.0          C. 4    __.       47.1     3.0
Sub-Total      9.4   o.6    11.9  0.8       8.2    0.6   69.3   4.6        0.7                99.5     6.6
Total        166.0  11.0   183.3 12.2   159.6   10.7  836.4  55.8         20.4      1.3   1,365.7    91.0
1/  Includes US$2.3 million of project works confined to domestic bidding.
7/  TAqq than US$100,000 equivalent.
Source: Road Funds of Macedonia and Slovenia and Road Council of Kosovo
April 22, 1971



T,1LE 15
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Average Daily Traffic, 1969-1990
Projections for New Highways
Highway Sections                      1970         1975      1980     1985      1990
Republic of Macedonia:
Skopje - Tetovo                  2,100         4,250    6,900    10,000  1lh,000
Kicevo - St. Razmo                  250          800    l,LhlO     2,1i,0    3,200
Republic of Slovenia:
Postojna - Razdrto               8,hoo        10,000   19,,000    30,000   38,000
Hoce - Levec                      5,3DO        8,200   i6.,0o0    26,000   35,000
Autonomous Province of Kosovo:
Kosovo Polje - Pristina           3,100        5,760   10,350    16,0o0   25,o00
j Preliminary estimate.
Source: Road Funds of Macedonia and Slovenia and i?.oad Cowucil of Kosovo
April 22, 1971



YUtSLA VIA
EFIFI HIEWAY PSJE CT
1ltor Vehicle Ocerat:ine Coats  id Sasing  per 
(Di)
Lopublic oJf A4&CoUaid                     _li.rOj Vf q1 twna                                                     Autornvnus Provine  t ,OosavO
Skopjie-Tetoo               Eicero-4brid (St. Rasno)              Posto,inaRa"drto                    Hoce-Levec                    RoSo Polje-Priatina
Existing   Proposed   Savings      Sxstirg   Proposed   Savings    &asting  Proposed   Saving         Existing  Proposed   Savings Hxistirg  Prqposed   Savinp
Hiav    HikhaV               z     Higkhwayv  Egig-hv w              piLy                   .   j      Hiiw Harhwav                S    EHa:asg   Hinhi              8
Passenger Carz       0.49        0.42     0.07  14      0.75        0.43     0.32  43      0.51      0.42      0.05  18      0.50      0.42    o0o8  16       0.48       0.41     0.07  15
(Fiat 1300)
Bus./                3.10        2.50     o.60  19      5.35        2.90     2.45  46      3.42       2,60     0.82  24      3.33      2.60    073  22       3.15       2.55     0.60  19
(44 seats)
Van                  1.20        1.00     0.20  17       1.814      1.05     0.79  43      1.30       1.00     0.30  23      1.26      1.00      0.26  21     1.20       0.98     0.22  18
(2 m ton)
Med(u  Truck         1.85        1-45     0.40  22      3.10        1.70     1.40 45       1.96      1.47      0.f49  25     1.89      1.47      0.42  22     1.75       1.43     0.32  18
(7 ton)
Heavy Truck           2.50       1.95     0.55  22       4.20       2.25     1.95  46      2.65       2000     0.65  25      2.55       2.00     0.55  22     2.37       1.95     0.42  18
(10 tmn)
Truck & Trailer       3.25       2.55     0.70  22       5.45       2.90      2,55  47     3.46       2.61     0.85  25      3.35       2.60     0.75  22     3.15       2.55     0.60  19
(7 ton &
10 ton)
I/ Excludes taxes.
/ Excludes the value of tin of driver aid passengers.
Y  Excludes tke value of time of passengers.
Source: Road Funds of Macedonia and Slovonia and Road Council of KoSoVr
April 22, 1971



TARLX if
YUGOSLAVIA
PIFTH HIGIHFAY PROJ ECT
Rates of Return
1/            2/
Most Probable       Lower        Higher
Highway Sections                      Estimate        LsF imate    Estimate
Republic of Macedonia:
Skopje - Tetove                        20              125
Kicevo - St. Razmo                     16              12            21
Republic of Slovenia:
Postojna - Razdrto                     16              12            20
Hoce - Levec                           15              12            20
Autonomous Province of Kosovo:
Kosovo Polje - Pristina                18              13            23
1/ Assumes a 10% increase in construction costs, combined with l10 decreases
in vehicle operating cost savings, base-year traffic, and traffic growth.
2/ Assumes a 10% decrease in construction costs, combined with 10, increases
in vehicle operating cost savings, base-year traffic, and traffic growth.
Source: Road Funds of Macedonia and Slovenia and Road Council of Kosovo
April 22, 1971



e', 



ANNE X A
TUWOSlAVIA
FIFTH HmsWAY PROMWCT
Construction and/or                                                  P eroeant of Aces  a1 Con tir, Roads  t ct H av Son
Width of Proposed Road-    ICstimated Total Cost        Completion of            Period of
Description  '                            t_        way and eaQ  ghoudre            (in zllio         _  Detailed Engineering       Construction
I.    Republic of Macedonia
Project Section
Skopje-Tstovo
1. Accesa Roads to Skopjea
(a) M.Tito Street at railway          1.0              13.0(6.0)               5.7              0.38        Completed               1971/72
(b) End of M.Tito Street              0.3               13.0(6.0A              1.7              0.10        Completed               1972/73
Total                                                                                     0 LT
Project Section
Kioevo-St. Razmo
1. Connecting Road
at 0oativar                         4.o               7.5(1.5)             12.1              0.80         Completed              1973/74
2. Access Roads to Ohridz
(a) at Podmolje                       0.2                7.0(1.15)             0.5              0.03         Completed              1973/74
(b) at St. Razmo                      0.1                7.0(1.15)             0.2              0.02         Completed              1973/74
(c) City Street                       2.5                7.0(2.0)              9.0              0.60         Completed              1973/7J
Total                                                                                    0
II.   Republic of Slovenia
Project Section
Postojna-Razdrto
1. Access Road at PostoJna             1.2               6.5(1.0)              1.0               0.07        Completed              1972/74
ProJect Section
Hoce-Levec
1. Access Road at Zice                 3.4               6.5(1.5)              5.9              0.39         Completed              1974
2. Existing Road
Pesnica-Hoce                        8.2              9.3(1.0)               2.2              0.15         July 1973              197W/75
3. Existing Road
-oce-Levec                         6.6           7.0-9.0(1.0)               2.7              0.18        Dec. 1971               1972/75
4. Existirg Road
Levec-Locica                        8.0          7.0-9.0(1.0)               3.1              0.21         Dec. 1973              1974/77
5. Existirg Road
Locica-Prevoje                      6.0          7.0-9.0(1.0)               2.3              0.15        Dec. 1971               1972/75
6. Existing Road
Prevoje-Crnuce                      7.0          7.0-9.0(1.0)               1.5              0.10         Dec. 1972              1973/77
III. Autonomous Province of Kosovo
ProJect Section
Kosovo Polje-Pristina                              No additi onsl work
required
V  All roadwsays will be       ned fcr a single axle-load of 10 m tone and wfll be asrfaood with asphlltic concrete.
2/ Unbracketed figures denote pavement width: bracketed single figure denotes width of shoulclder on each side of pavermnt.
Source: Road Funds of Macedonia ard Slovenia and Road Council of Kosovo
April 22, 1971



ANNEX B
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ProJect Financing/
(Din and US$ miluions)
Din                           US$
Govern-                       Govern-
Item                     ment    Bank       Total       ment    Bank       Total
I. Construction of 52/
Highway Sections -
Skopje-Tetevo                74.6   h5.8      120.LL        4.98   3.05       8.03
Kicevo-St. Razmo             82.2   50.4      132.6         5.49   3.35       8.84
Postojna-Razdrto             72.7   44.5       117.2        4.81   3.00       7.81
Hoce-Levec                  362.1  221.9       584.0       24.1h  14.80      38.94
Kosovo Polje-Pristina        10.0    6.2       16.2         0.68   0.40       1.08
Sub-Total I               601.6  368.8      970.4       40.10  24.60       64.70
II. Engineering Equipment
Imnported                     -      24.0       24.0         -     1.60       1.60
Domestically procured         2.3    1.5         3.8        0.15   0.10       0.25
Sub-Total II                2.3   25.5       27.8        0.15   1.70        1.85
III. Consulting Services              8.3    6.3       16.6        0.55   0.55        1.10
IV. Training Abroad                  -      3.8        3.8         -      0.25       0.25
v. Contingencies                 184.9  118.5       3038.:      12.30   7.90      20.20
Total I - V               797.1  524.9   1,322.0        53.10  35.00       88.10
1/  Bank financing to be 38% of I, including related contingency costs, and the
foreign exchange cost of II, III and IV, including related contingency costs.
2/ Includes cost of supervision, which is taken at 5% of cost of construction.
Source: Federal Secretariat for Economy and Mission Estimates
April 22, 1971



ANNEX C
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1/
Project Bidding Sections and Subsections
(Din and US$ millions)
Estimated
Length       Construc con
Sections and Subsections                                (km)            Costs
Din       US$
I.   Republic of Macedonia
Project Section Skopje-Tetevo
Skopje - Zelino                                       25.7        70.h       4.7
Zelino - Tetevo                                       1L0.6       44.3       2.9
3757  11L1.7      7W
4          Project Section Kicevo-St. Razmo
Kicevo - Izdeglavji                                   31.1        78.3       5.2
Izdeglavji - St. Razmo                                22.5        48.0       3.2
'77b      126.5,       T-T
II.   Republic of Slovenia
Project Section Postojna-Razdrto                          8.8      111.6D       7.4
Project Section Hoce-Levec
3/
* Preparatory Works                                    (4h9J)        35.0      2.3
Hoce - Slov. Bistrica                                 17.0       113.2       7.6
Slov. Bistrica - Zice                                  8.5        76.2       5.1
Zice - Dramlje                                         9.0        30.6       2.0
Dramlje - Levec                                      1.9 3/   i15.8         7.7
Structures over 50 m long                             (2.hY/   100.1         6.7
Tunnel                                                (1.6)-      85.3       5.7
III.   Autonomous Province of Kosovo
Project Section Kosovo Polje - Pristina                5.0        15.)       1.0
IV.   Total All Provinces                                     153.1       924.2      61.5
1/ All to be subject to international competitive bidding, except preparatory
works (*) for Hoce-Levec in Slovenia, which would be confined to domestic
bidding.
2/ Excludes contingencies and supervision.
3/ Lengths in ( ) not included in total length.
Source: Road Funds of Macedonia and Slovenia and Road Council of Kosovo
April 22, 1971



ANNEX D)
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                       Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                             at end of Quarter
(US$ thousand)
1970/71
June 30, 1971
1971/72
September 30, 1971                             500
December 31, 1971                            1,300
March 31, 1972                                3,,800
June 30, 1972                                8,600
1972/73
September 30, 1972                          12,400
December 31, 1972                           14,200
March 31, 1973                              15,300
June 30, 1973                               18,200
1973/74
September 30, 1973                          21,700
December 31, 1973                           23,400
March 31, 1974                              25,400
June 30, 1974                               27,800
1974/75
September 30, 1974                          29,800
December 31, 1974                           30,400
March 31, 1975                              31,200
June 30, 1975                               32,800
1975/76
September 30, 1975                          33,800
December 31, 1975                           34,600
March 31, 1976                              35,000
Source: Mission Estimates
April 22, 1971



YUGOSLAVIA: FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TYPICAL ORGANIZATION OF A ROAD FUND
r  -                          FEDERAL ASSEMBLY
I r ------ FEDERAL  EXECUTIVE  COUNCI
i     i                                          j' FEDERAL SECRETARIAT              FEDERAL SECRETARIAT
I     I                                          i       FOR FINANCE                       FOR ECONOMY
I     I                                                                                   ___                 . _          .-3
i                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT
r-~~~~---~~~~       - -       ------                 -                                                        FOR TRANSPORTATIO
SIMILAR            I                i        ASSEMBLY OF SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIJA  __
I ORGANIZATION    I                                             S            R          OF M -    _
IN THE OTHER                        i
FIVE REPUBLICS   I                  I
AND IN THE TWO I                    i          _  _                                      N
I AUTONOMOUS         i-                                EXECUTIVE COUNCIL OF MACEDONIA- -
PROVINCES *        j
L_________ ________    ____                                                        __ __            _      _7iiL          ZZ
_                      ROAD FUND                           1    i            SECRETARIAT   -
I__  :   L  FOR ECONOMY          j
21 MEMBER BOARD HEAOEO                        _!        ,<                               3
BY A PRESIDENT                                                           1fr--I: 
-   - --_______            -                                    -   R~~~~~~~~DEAFTMENT ]
DIRECTOR                          .FOR TRANSPOPTA  ON
PLDEPARTMENT FOR                                             DEPADEPARTM ENT                                                                   1              DEPARTM 'IPT r'R                          DEPARTMENT  FOR
I PLANN!NG, PROGRAMMING,                                  I |   -ONSTRUCTiON   |   |     MuItATENllNtAF                  I   EUDGET AND ACCCUNTS                  i  GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
STUDY AND DESIGN                                            COiAND  RECONSTRUCTION                                                                                                        _
r---- r                                                  ----4--t----------                    -                            I---------- -------------------------------
ENGINEERIN     A ECONOMIC                                                                                                 ROARNDF OA
AND SCIENTIFI            EN REINA                  ROTESTING                                          M    UAINEAC
ENTEflPRISE s NSTITUTES                                                                              ENTERPRISEEs  CONSTRUCTION  INSTITUTES  ENTEPISE  Orgonizations and enterprises
separate froint Rood Fund but
coopercting with it in the
-    IA                             execution of its duties
TE RN TOR IAL   I
3 Differences fur the other twro Repclins involved:
In Cruatta -  The Rood Fund reports to the Sootetaruo for Eco-omy ond does not includ  deportment for mointnone  d reconstructiont   f    r   d  the aurisdiction
of four regional offices repoMring direcly to the Seotetorut for Ecooo-y. There ore separate rood enterprises for each of seven maintenane territories.I
In S!ovenia - The Rood Fur-d combines all dties in only three Deportments, namely for Highways plonning, desiun end constr-ction)  Main-enonce nd Renonstr-ction, -nd GOne-al
(odministrotio-) . The Presid-nt is asit chief executive officer. There are separate roud enterprises fot each of seven territories.
J.,,u.ry 1971                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IRRI)-4339(2R)



I                                        --
I                     I



r                                                                                                                                                  b
s I
u  s  rR   I A                                                                                                                                                                                   
YUGOSLAVIA                                                         D0r4~.   -.                        :                         Pec xJzsv oo  ,...
HIGHWAY  SYSTEM                                                                                                           /, --:<  JrtGAk. .  *8-- .............*/O
EUROPEAN HICHWUYS                                                                                                      V 0 D   N A
0TIIC  CLASS 1 JIArFIwAAYS                                                                         c9       0                             Teo                                       _      
Al- HIO1AT UNDER CCNSTRAC[ION                                             4r   !*  
DA+--+ EUNDARIES UP DEPUALISS6 AUTONOMOUS PUCUISCES i' |                                                                                                                                                  -ijS;  (oe2 
I -4-I-4II  RU LWAYS
* FIRS 0 iiUUAAY UROtlECT  ;>  0s A(
~ SECOND  IR IGHWAY PRO iECT O                                                                                L           z           4<   K c> S  AEV 
PU_ FORIP USUAWAY PRUJECT                                                                                                                     .os          i \.                                )
II RIJUCA EROD6E AT RUSOXVO PUL iE (ANSI PRO iECT)                                                                                                
0,2       AND K0S0V0 PUL iE-PRI ST INA SECT ION (000 PRO iECT)                                                                                                        r        
rx @ E= PUOPOUED CI FTU ((ISNAP PRDIECCT                       D    2D   40   Po 80 PD      g 00;  '''                                                                         GR0   E                0
-                                                                                 ,                                   E m                                          x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,



