Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18033
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GOVERNMENT OF SEYCHELLES
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
AND
MARINE POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
(GEF GRANT No. 28627 SEY)
June 19, 1998
Water and Urban Division
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients Qnly in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency                 Seychelles Rupee (SR.)
Exchange Rate                 $1.00 = SR 5.00
$0.20 = SRI .00
FISCAL YEAR OF GRANT RECIPIENT
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare               2.47 acres
1 kilometer               0.621 miles
I millimeter               0.039 inch
I square kilometer (krn2)             0.386 square miles
1 kilogram                2.2 pounds
1 metric ton               2,205 pounds
I cubic meter               1.307 cubic yards
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CITES               Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species of Flora and Fauna
CODEVAR                 Compagnie pour le Developpement des Artisanm
EMPS                Environment Management Plan of Seychelles
GEF               Global Environment Facility
GOS               Government of Seychelles
MARPOL                 International Convention for the Prevention of Follution
from Ships
MoFA                Ministry of Foreign Affairs
MoE               Ministry of Environment
Mol               Ministry of Industry
MPA                Marine Parks Authority
MTT                Ministry of Tourism and Transport
PMSD                Ports and Marine Services Division
PUC               Public Utilities Co.
SAREC                Swedish Agency for Research and Cooperation in
Developing Countries
SFA               Seychelles Fishing Authority
SIF              Seychelles Island Foundation
SWAC                Solid Waste and Cleaning Agency
WIOMSA                 Western Indian Ocean Marine Science Association
Vice President:                Callisto Madavo
Country Director:              Michael Sarris
Technical Manager:             Jeffrey Racki
Task Team Member:              Mehrnaz Teymourian



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SEYCHELLES
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
AND
MARINE POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
(GEF GRANT NO. 28627 SEY)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
PREFACE.i
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.1i
Project Objectives and Components ..................................................      ii
Implementation  Experience  and  Results ..................................................  iii
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned ..................................... iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATCION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ...................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ...................................................3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ........................................8
D. Project Sustainability ...................................................9
E. Bank Performance ..................................................                   10
F. Grant Recipient Performance .....................                             -         12
G. Assessment of Outcomes .....................                                          13
H. Future Operations .....................                                               15
I. Key Lessons Learned .....................                                             16
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES AND ANNEX
Tables:
Table 1:        Summary of Assessments
Table 2:        Related Bank Credits/Loans
Table 3:        Project Timetable
Table 4:        Grant Disbursements
Table 5-6:      Key Indicators
Table 7:        Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:       Project Costs
Table 8B:       Project Financing
Table 9:        Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:       Legal Covenants
Annex 1         Borrower comments on the ICR
Annex 2         ICR Mission Aide-Memoire
Map: IBRD No.23521R and 23522R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SEYCHELLES
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
AND
MARINE POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
GEF GRANT No. 28627 SEY
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for a Biodiversity Conservation and
Marine Pollution Abatement Project in Seychelles, for which GEF Grant TF 28627 in an amount
of SDR 1.3 million (US$1.8 million equivalent) was approved on January 15, 1993 and made
effective on February 9, 1993.
The Grant closed on December 31, 1997, one year after the original closing date of
December 31, 1996. All funds under the project were fully disbursed by May 31, 1998.
A first draft of the ICR was prepared by an independent consultant with the assistance of
the coordinator of the Environment Management Plan of Seychelles (EMPS), Mrs. Kerstin Henri.
The final report has been prepared by the Task Team Member, Mehrnaz Teymourian, and
reviewed by Carl Lundin, (ENV), Orville Grimes (LCODR), Robin Broadfield and Jan Post
(ENVGC), the peer reviewers, and by Michael Sarris, the Country Director, and Manorama
Gotur, the Country Operations Analyst for Seychelles. The report has also benefited from the
comments and observations of the staff of various implementing agencies in Seychelles.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission,
from November 4 to November 22, 1997. It is based on material in the project file. The Grant
Recipient contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing documentation, exchanging
views and commenting on the draft ICR, as well by preparing a brief assessment on Grant
implementation experience.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SEYCHELLES
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
AND
MARINE POLLUTPION ABATEMENT PROJECT
(GEF GRANT No 28627 SEY)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The project grew out of the Bank's involvement in the preparation of the Environmental
Management Plan of Seychelles (EMPS). At the Government's request, certain projects in the
EMPS were incorporated by the Bank into an integrated Envircnment and Transport Project
which included the GEF component. The GEF part which is reviewed in this report consisted of
actions to reduce marine pollution and several measures to protect biodiversity. This included the
restoration and preservation of the ecosystem of Aldabra Atoll, the protection of endangered sea
turtles and giant tortoises and the design of waste reception facilities at the Port of Victoria.
Complementary financing for biodiversity conservation activities was provided through a Dutch
Trust Fund in 1994 which was also administered by the Bank.
Project Objectives and Components
2.    The objectives of the GEF Project as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report were to
protect biodiversity and limit pollution of international waters around Seychelles. The project
comprised three main components:
Component 1: Restoration and preservation of the Aldabra ecosystem. This was to be
achieved by the rehabilitation of the scientific research station; strengthening of scientific and
managerial personnel; and eradication of feral goats and preparation of a long term management
plan for Aldabra.
Component 2: Conservation of biodiversity. This was to be achieved by the preparation of
comprehensive management plans to prohibit or restrict the exploitation of two species of marine
turtles, a Green Turtle protection program and the Hawksbill Turtle protection program. Two
important modifications were made subsequent to the Appraisal Report, namely the removal of a
turtle ranching component and the inclusion of a Giant Tortoise protection and Management Plan
component.
Component 3: Actions to limit pollution of internationalwaters. This was to be achieved by a
feasibility study and engineering designs for the construction of facilities to receive and dispose
of waste from commercial and fishing vessels at the port of Victoria. The purchase of oil spill
tracking and control equipment, subsequently added to this component, was made possible when
additional funds were made available following exchange rate fluctuation between the SDR and
US dollar.
Overall the Project objectives were appropriate and realistic.



iii
Implementation Experience and Results
*  Institutional Development: Institutional development has been satisfactory although
further improvements are still necessary to develop the managerial capacity at the
Seychelles Islands Foundation which manages Aldabra and Vallee de Mai World
Heritage sites. The project has resulted in improvements in legislation, policy and
scientific skills.
*  Physical Objectives: Physical objectives of the project have all been achieved and in
some cases have even been surpassed. The research facilities on Aldabra, which
originally were to be repaired only, have now been successfully reconstructed.
Equipment for the laboratory, turtle monitoring, and oil spill tracking and control (not
foreseen in the original plan) was purchased and delivered.
*  Global Environmental Objectives: Global environmental objectives are deemed to have
been achieved satisfactorily. The turtle shell industry is now illegal, and turtles and
tortoises protected and monitored. While disposal of the turtle shells collected under the
turtle protection component was not part of the agreements under the project, the
existence of some shells, even in sealed containers, could present a danger to the
continued successful enactment of the legislation to ban turtle shell trade.
*  Overall Implementation and Operation: Overall implementation and operation under the
project are considered to have been highly satisfactory. The National Environment
Management Plan (EMPS) Coordinator has facilitated the process locally and the
implementing agencies have further improved their abilities to supervise implementation
of various components.
*  Costs and Implementation Timetable: The project closing date was extended from
December 31, 1996 to December 31, 1997 based on the availability of additional funds in
the budget from exchange rate fluctuations between the Special Drawing Rights (SDR) in
which the Grant was made available, and US$ in which the Grant was disbursed.
Additional activities were undertaken using these savings.  All original project
components were completed within the projected budget with the exception of the Study
of Waste reception facilities which had an actual cost overrun of 43 percent in dollar
terms as compared to appraisal estimates. This cost overrun was due to underestimation
of the scope of the study during project preparation and to exchange rate fluctuation
(between US$ and NGL) during implementation and not caused by poor management.
* Performance of the Bank and the Grant Recipient: In spite of high staff turnover on both
sides (the Bank has had a turnover of three task managers during the first two years of
project implementation and the Grant recipient has had three project coordinators) and
difficulties in supervising project implementation on Aldabra, the teams were successful
in implementing the project satisfactorily. The overall performance of the Bank and the
Grant Recipient is deemed to have been highly satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
3.    Overall, the outcome of the project is highly satisfactory. All of its objectives have been
achieved and in some cases (preparation of giant tortoise management plans, and reconstruction
of the Aldabra research station) they have surpassed the original project expectations. Sector
policies, financial, physical and environmental objectives were all met. The project has benefited
the international community, by addressing issues of global concern, and the Seychelles by



iv
assisting it to protect key components of its biodiversity.
4.    The Aldabra component has been instrumental in establishing a working environment
that is conducive to scientific work as well as long term management of the Aldabra World
Heritage site. The new research station will permit future generations of scientists to build on the
already existing body of work that has been conducted in Aldabra. The implementation of the
management plan will ensure that the long term objectives of preserving Aldabra for posterity
will be accomplished.
5.    The restoration of the fragile ecosystem of Aldabra through the removal of one of the
main introduced threats has been completed, although the eradication of goats on most of the
atoll remains somewhat elusive due to the existence of a few remaining animals. Though strong
signs of inbreeding have been noted on the most recent goats eradicated, there remains a risk that
the population rebuilds itself over time. The SIF recognizes the threat and has decided to
undertake a continuous goat eradication campaign to address the problem. The goat eradication
campaign is now combined with the effort to eradicate cats and rats on Aldabra.
6.    Incremental cost analysis: The benefits generated through the GEF project have been
primarily global in nature. The eradication of goats is almost entirely a global benefit. The other
benefits include improvement of the management capacity on Aldabra and reconstruction of the
research facility, with a view to facilitate international scientific research.
7.    It was highly unlikely for the GoS to be able to allocate any of its own scarce resources
to finance the Aldabra restoration program, or to secure any financing for this purpose without
GEF assistance. To ensure sustainability of the achievements under the project and recognizing
that Aldabra is unlikely to become financially self-sufficient in the near future, the SIF has
committed itself to continue subsidizing the operations and maintenance of the research station
for the benefit of humanity as stipulated in the World Heritage Convention.
8.    The sea turtle component has led to a dismantling of about 1% of the industry base of
Seychelles thus having some negative impact on the country's economy. The negative impact
has been offset through the artisan retraining program. All the artisans in the turtle shell business
have been retrained and are now exercising other revenue earning professions. The goodwill
generated and the increased tourism revenues from the turtle protection campaigns can be
sustained through maintenance of a healthy sea turtle population and are also considered positive
impacts. Over the next few years the likely increase in turtle population could also have positive
global benefits and would market Seychelles as a unique place for sea turtle eco-tourism.
9.    Future Operations and Recommendations: It is recommended that a project be designed
to build the facilities recommended in the MARPOL study. Turtle and tortoise legislation can be
further improved by removing the inconsistencies in the existing laws and by enforcing a more
realistic level of fines. The institutional capacity of the SIF should be strengthened through
appointment of a high level executive officer with appropriate scientific and managerial
experience, and the position of National Coordinator should be enhanced to better reflect the
importance of its role.
Key Lessons Learned:
* In countries with limited human capacity, a focal Government-appointed project
coordinator, in this case the EMPS Coordinator, with experience in project management
and a good understanding of the sectoral issues is key to timely implementation of the



v
project and can ensure smooth linkages between the implementing agencies and the
donor community.
* A high staff turnover during project implementation can be detrimental to the successful
implementation of projects with a large number of technically different components.
*  For project components involving strong socio-economic elements, such as eliminating
industries based on endangered turtles, a socio-economist or environmental economist
should be involved in project design and implementation.
*  For complex natural resources projects, adequate resources should be in place to ensure
close supervision of the project by a multi-disciplinary team.
*  For projects which will be implemented in isolated areas, such as Aldabra, project design
should include measures (e.g. improved communication links, frequent staff turnaround)
to alleviate human and environmental pressures on the project staff.



SEYCHELLES
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
AND
MARINE POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
(GEF GRANT No. 28627 SEY)
PART I:    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.   Introduction: The project grew out of the Bank's involvement in the preparation
of the Environmental Management Plan of Seychelles (EMPS). Of the EMPS programs,
actions to protect biodiversity and to limit the pollution of the international waters around
Seychelles were identified as the most consistent with the goals of the Global
Environment Facility (GEF). These and certain other projects in the EMPS were
incorporated by the Bank into an integrated Environment and Transport Project approved
on December 2, 1992, and closing on June 30, 1999. The project cost was estimated at
US$7 million. The Environment and Transport project was financed by a Bank loan of
US$4.5 million and by a Government of Seychelles (GOS) contribution of US$0.7
million, in addition to a Global Environment Facility (GEF) grant of US$1.8 million.
2.    The GEF-financed biodiversity measures included the restoration and preservation
of the ecosystem of Aldabra Atoll, and the protection of endangered sea turtles. For the
marine pollution reduction, the GEF would finance the design and feasibility study of
waste reception facilities at the Port of Victoria. The project (the GEF portion) as
described in the Staff Appraisal Report of 1992 had the following components:
a) Aldabra Ecosystem Restoration Program. The objectives of this program were the
restoration and preservation of the Aldabra ecosystem. This was to be achieved by:
* Rehabilitation of the scientific research station (it was subsequently decided to rebuild
the research station given the extent of deterioration);
* Strengthening of scientific and managerial personnel;
* Eradication of feral goats;
* Preparation of a long term management plan for Aldabra;
* Preparation of a Giant Tortoise census and monitoring system (this was subsequently
added to the program).
b)    Protection of endangered sea turtles. The objective was formulation of
comprehensive management plans to prohibit or restrict the exploitation of marine turtles.
This was to be achieved through:



2
*  Green turtle protection program: stock assessment, and preparation of a plan for the
achievement and maintenance of a sustainable yield of green turtles;
*  Hawksbill turtle protection program: a turtle ranching feasibility study; a program
(legislative measures, publicity campaigns, etc.) to control the supply and demand of
turtle shells; turtle shell compensation study; and a compensation, retraining and
reinstallation program for turtle shell artisans;
*  Three important modifications were made subsequent to the Appraisal Report namely
the removal of the turtle ranching component, the inclusion of a Giant Tortoise
Protection and Management Plan component, and the removal of the maintenance and
sustainable yield of green turtles in the Green Turtle protection program because it
was believed to be unrealistic and contrary to the conservation objectives of the
project.
c)    Abatement of Marine Pollution. The objective was to support the study and
design of facilities that would improve the capacity of the port to handle ship wastes.
This was to be achieved by:
*  A feasibility study and engineering designs for the construction of facilities to receive
and dispose of waste from commercial and fishing vessels at the Port of Victoria;
*  The purchase of oil spill tracking and control equipment was added to this component
to be financed from extra funds acquired through currency fluctuations.
3.    The design, production and launching of the IEMPS was the most significant
environmental policy move of the Government of Seychelles since Independence. The
GEF Project components were all EMPS projects developed by the relevant Government
agencies. The Government identified these projects as high priorities.
4.    The GEF Project objectives supported the Seychelles commitment to biodiversity
conservation and protection of marine environment. The Project allowed for the
implementation of a program that takes full account of socioeconomic, institutional and
legal aspects of the protection of endangered species. Accordingly the Project Objectives
are considered to be appropriate and realistic.
5.    The Project has enabled important linkages to be established with other ongoing
priority programs, such as the Abatement of Marine Pollution, municipal solid waste
collection and the Solid Waste and Cleaning Agency (SWAC), the parastatal institution
charged with solid waste collection.
6.    Collaboration and linkages with NGOs and other organizations involved in the
project, as envisaged in the Staff Appraisal Report, resulted in a more comprehensive
picture of overall progress of environmental actions than any single agency, including the
Bank, could have produced.



3
B. ACHIEVEMENTS OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives.  Achievement of the
majority of the global environmental objectives of the Project can be considered to be
substantial (Table 1). This was the case for sector policies and financial, physical and
environmental objectives. A research station has been constructed on Aldabra and is
operational, a draft Management Plan has been drawn up, and the atoll has been purged of
all but a few goats. The turtle and giant tortoise populations have been assessed and
management enhanced, personnel trained, artisans re-installed in new professions and
turtle shell trade effectively terminated. Regarding abatement of marine pollution the
country now possesses detailed proposals for waste disposal facilities that could be
constructed to comply with MARPOL. The global environmental objectives of biological
diversity protection and abatement of marine pollution were met through the enhanced
capacity of Seychelles to implement the provisions of the Biodiversity convention,
CITES and MARPOL.
8.   Institutional development was 'partially achieved. The management of Seychelles
Islands Foundation (SIF), responsible for the management of Aldabra, could be
improved. In addition to filling the vacancy for the Executive Officer, who has now been
appointed, the need for a senior staff with appropriate management and scientific skills
has become apparent. The design of the project was not fully appropriate, as it did not
foresee the implementation difficulties for components to be undertaken on Aldabra. In
particular, this involved the goat eradication program, which had to be extended twice to
allow a more realistic time frame to implement the objectives. The MARPOL component
was strictly an engineering design, not providing funds for the actual construction of
waste facilities or for training. Early difficulties in implementing turtle shell legislation
and compensation of the turtle component were due to changes in local implementing
staff, as well as deep sociological patterns of behavior in Seychellois society.
9.    Component 1. Restoration and Preservation of Aldabra Ecosystem. This
program consisted of four parts: (i) rehabilitation of the scientific research facility on
Picard island, Aldabra; (ii) provision of personnel to strengthen SIF research and
conservation management; (iii) control of feral goats on islands of the atoll; and (iv)
preparation of a long-term  management plan for Aldabra.  Tortoise census and
monitoring was added as a fifth objective subsequent to the Appraisal Report.
10.   SIF was to manage all facets of the Aldabra program. To define roles and
responsibilities, a Memorandum of Understanding was concluded between the
government and SIF for implementation of the program. Signature of the Memorandum
of Understanding was a condition of disbursement of the GEF grant. SIF was responsible
for recruitment of the scientific and managerial personnel, and of consultants for the goat
control program. It was intended that the managerial and scientific personnel recruited
would eventually be major contributors to the long-term management plan. This program
was also supposed to address other issues such as the number and frequency of visits to



4
Aldabra by non-scientists, area designation for conservation purposes, supervision of
visitors while on the island, liaison with other reserves and national parks in Seychelles,
and the prospects for ecotourism programs.
11.   Originally the research station was to undergo refurbishment only. However, in
the interval that the station had been assessed and the project implemented, the facilities
had completely deteriorated. Therefore it was mutually agreed between the Bank and the
Grant Recipient that a new station should be built. The construction of the new research
station was completed satisfactorily. The research station was built on already existing
foundations of the old buildings and this led to cost savings as well as preventing
potential environmental damage caused by earthworks if new foundations had to be
installed. The log buildings made from treated imported timber are well suited to the
environment of the atoll.
12.   The Goat Eradication Program involved the so-called Judas Goat, a radio-tagged
nanny goat that would be released and would gregariously seek out other goats which
were then hunted. Afterwards the nanny was released again to seek out more goats.
There were certain initial difficulties in identifying suitable consultants who had practical
field experience in this technique and who could live in isolated areas for substantial time
periods. The Consultants who were recruited have conducted three campaigns and have
now effectively cleared the atoll of all the animals except a handful in inaccessible areas.
T he risk of population expansion will remain until the last goat is removed. Although
locating and hunting these last ones is the most difficult part of the project, efforts are
continuing on Aldabra to ensure complete eradication, using the rangers and the research
officers on Aldabra to continue the hunt.
13.   The Long Term Management and Scientific Plan for the atoll was completed by
the scientific officers recruited under the project and who had lived on Aldabra for a year
at each interval. However, the first draft of the documents was believed to be overly
detailed and voluminous, thus reducing their value as practical management tools. The
SIF pledged to edit and pare down the documents, and contracted two members of its
scientific committee to do this work. A draft of the newly revised version has been made
available recently and has been distributed for comments.
14.   Disbursements lagged  owing  to  SIF  delaying  contract signature  and
disbursements at the beginning of project implementation. This was due to lack of
capacity within SIF to adequately manage projects. The Executive Officer is the only
executive employed by SIF and moreover does not have middle management staff at his
disposal. He is further burdened with many tasks, which are multidisciplinary in nature.
15.   Personnel difficulties on Aldabra continued to hinder project implementation
throughout. There has been a substantial turnover of staff on the atoll and difficulties
with staff discipline and productivity. This was partially resolved in 1997 when SIF
withdrew the Logistics Manager from the atoll. Additional efforts are being made to
create a more professional working environment on Aldabra. Access is still difficult as it



5
involves air travel in small planes to Assumption, a nearby island and then travel in a
small boat through what can be difficult sea conditions to Aldabra.
16.   Due to the high cost of travel and transportation constraints, the Bank was able to
field only two missions to visit Aldabra, one prior to project launch and another after
completion of the Research station. A more frequent supervision of the project
components on Aldabra would have alleviated some of the staff and managerial issues
that arose during implementation.
17.   Component 2. Protection of Sea Turtles. The two species of marine turtles in
Seychelles, the Green (Chelonia mydas) and Hawksbill (Eretmochelys imbricata), are
both Globally Threatened species. The Sea Turtle Protection Program was designed to
implement a comprehensive set of actions to restrict or prohibit marine turtle exploitation.
The green turtle protection program was designed to define the sustainable level of
exploitation for the species in order to accommodate domestic consumption. However,
the original program design was found to be of little value for conservation and without
doubt unsustainable taking into account the large historical catches of these species. The
focus was therefore modified to be oriented more towards monitoring and conservation.
18.   The Hawksbill turtle protection program included a feasibility study of Hawksbill
turtle ranching, a turtle compensation study, retraining and compensation for artisans
presently working turtle shells, and educational materials to Seychellois and tourists on
the consequences of trade in and purchase of turtle products. The ranching proposal had
been introduced during project preparation because some proponents of the project
believed it was essential to farm turtles so as to continue their consumption, and also to
increase the wild population by releasing captive bred juveniles, so-called headstarting.
This sub-component was subsequently dropped because a ranching operation would
clearly not be accepted by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species
of Flora and Fauna (CITES); because there were no similar ecologically sound and
economically viable operations anywhere in the world; and because there was no proof
that headstarted turtles survived or bred successfully.
19.   The Turtle Protection Program was to be managed by what was then the
Conservation and National Parks Section of the Environment Division. The Seychelles
Fishing Authority (SFA), with long experience of trying to manage sea turtle stocks, was
to become involved in implementation of the program. SFA was also to be called upon to
enforce the Green turtle quota regulations that were likely to form part of the
management plan. With the creation of the Marine Parks Authority (MPA) in 1996, the
management of the component was divided between the MPA (where turtles nested and
were found in Marine Parks) and what became the Conservation Division in the present
Ministry of Environment. SFA's involvement was withdrawn since turtle conservation
was thought to be more in line with the objectives of the two previously mentioned
organizations.  Government removed management of turtles from  the Fisheries



6
Regulations and new Regulations were enacted under the Wild Birds and other Animals
Protection Act.
20.   For the Hawksbill program and as a condition of disbursement of the GEF grant, a
Memorandum of Understanding was concluded between the former Ministry of
Environment, Planning and External Relations (MEPER) and the Department of Industry
(DOI) in collaboration with CODEVAR, the artisan development company. This
agreement outlined the responsibilities of DOI/CODEVAR for undertaking the turtle
trade compensation study and the re-training and compensation of artisans. Legislation
was to be put in place prior to December 31, 1993 but in reality it was only effective in
mid-1995.
21.   The legislation entailed banning the sale of turtle shell and a cessation of the
commercialization of turtle meat and associated products. Because of the socio-economic
background of the Seychelles and strong feelings regarding continuing utilization of
turtles by certain sections of society, it was extremely difficult for the Grant Recipient to
implement these sub-components within the deadlines defined by the project. While the
legislation for banning the use of turtle shells did become effective, the stock collected
from the artisans has not been disposed of completely and the stock has been sealed in a
container since its collection. It should be mentioned that disposal of the turtle shells was
not part of agreements under the GEF.
22.   The turtle shell compensation program was implemented successfully.  All
licensed turtle shell artisans were included in this program. Six artisans were paid
retirement compensation; eleven artisans were paid cash compensation; and fourteen
were paid credit compensation for the purposes of training, purchase of equipment and
materials and to initiate alternative businesses.
23.   Subsequent to the Staff Appraisal Report, a Giant Tortoise Protection Program
was added at the request of the Grant recipient and mutually agreed with the Bank. Due
to the ranching proposal having been dropped, there was now added funding flexibility
that allowed for this program to be easily introduced in the project portfolio.
24.   The performance of the consultant recruited to implement the Turtle and Tortoise
Protection Program has been highly satisfactory. The Consultant has interpreted her TOR
in the broadest sense and in certain instances such as DNA analysis, brought the latest
scientific methods to bear upon her work. Furthermore, the Consultant's previous work
experience within the Seychelles, especially remote islands with insular human
populations, enabled the successful execution of sub-components that could have been
potentially problematic or troublesome. The addition of the Giant Tortoise component
has not detracted from the original objectives but in fact further complemented
implementation success.



7
25.   The long-term sustainability of this component is secure. The Ministry of
Environment has assigned tertiary level staff such as Park Rangers to follow up on the
activities. Currently missing is a senior officer who has a dedicated role in taking over
from the Consultant. This is largely due to staffing constraints within the Conservation
Division. There are at present only two college graduates in this Division, only one being
a national. This person is responsible for follow up on all threatened species.
26.   A major outstanding issue to date is the disposal of the turtle shell stock. Several
mutually agreed on dates for disposal have passed with a minor amount of shell being
dumped at sea during the Regional Integrated Coastal Zone Seminar in October 1996.
While disposal of the shells was not one of GEF covenants or conditionalities, the Bank
strongly encouraged the Recipient to dispose of these shells as soon as possible. But the
efforts have been only partially successful. The Grant Recipient has been made aware of
the risk involved with respect to credibility with the Bank and other donor agencies if the
stockpile is not disposed of in a suitable manner.
27.   Component 3. Abatement of Marine Pollution. This component consisted of a
study to design and evaluate the waste reception and disposal facilities at the Port of
Victoria that are needed to comply with the requirements of the International Convention
for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL). Actual construction of the
facilities was to take place in a subsequent phase, beyond the scope of the current project.
28.   The local counterpart functions were handled successfully by the Ports and
Marine Services Division (PMSD), which liaised with all concerned parties including the
private sector. The Consultants for the project were in direct contact with the Director
General of the PMSD who ensured that this component was on line at all times.
29.   The recommendations of the consultants to build a marine oil waste treatment
facility and solid waste incinerator, while appropriate for the amount of waste produced at
the Port of Victoria, are nevertheless too costly for the Government to feasibly finance in
the short term and under Government Budget; the cost is about US$3 million to build and
about US$500,000 to operate annually. Project funds, coming out of savings owing to
currency fluctuations, were sufficient to purchase some oil spill tracking and control
equipment. Therefore, it now falls upon Government to decide whether to seek
additional funding to implement the recommendations.
30.   Performance Indicators. Progress towards project objectives as measured by
key indicators is an integral part of progress reporting. Key indicators were identified in
the Staff Appraisal Report. Monitoring of Key indicators has been the responsibility of
the National Coordinator.
31.   All performance indicators have been fully met except for the goat eradication
program where a few goats remain in inaccessible areas. These can be removed by a long
term control effort that is underway on Aldabra. The Aldabra Research Station is filly



8
completed and all laboratory and communication equipment has been delivered. The
scientific and managerial staffs have been successfully recruited. A draft of the long-term
management plan is completed. Nevertheless, this voluminous document requires further
editing. The tortoise monitoring programs have now resumed.
32.   The turtle ranching study was found to be inappropriate and was dropped from the
project. The Turtle Shell Compensation Study was completed in time and under the
budget. All registered turtle shell artisans have either been compensated for ceasing their
activity or been rehabilitated in new jobs. Training, as described in the Turtle Shell
Compensation Study, and artisans compensation has been completed. The Stock
Assessment has been completed.  Turtle legislation banning the trade has been
promulgated and is being enforced and the Turtle Management Plan completed. Thirty-
eight persons have been trained in turtle monitoring techniques. Introduction of new
tagging systems were completed. The giant tortoise monitoring and assessment is
completed. Five persons have been trained in monitoring techniques. The study of the
waste reception facilities is completed. Oil spill tracking and control equipment has been
bought.
33.   Procurement and Disbursement. For a period of two years, the National
Coordinator in-post had inadequate experience with procurement and disbursement
procedures of the Bank. This had a negative effect on the speed and efficiency of project
implementation.  The performance of the present National Coordinator has been
satisfactory throughout the project and this has facilitated project execution. Certain
delays in disbursement occurred owing to personnel constraints and turnover in two key
implementing institutions, the Ministry of Environment and the SIF. With the exception
of the SIF, Seychellois counterparts in implementing institutions were by and large
expeditious in solving bottlenecks once Bank staff or the National Coordinator had
identified them. Towards the end of the project, Seychellois counterparts have improved
their skills in following procurement and disbursement procedures of the Bank,
preparation of Terms of Reference (TORs), tender documents and contracts. This was an
investment cost on the side of the Grant Recipient, but is considered to be a positive
benefit for further GEF involvement. The principal constraints in this regard continue to
be lack or turnover of trained staff in key institutions, in particular the SIF.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
34.   Factors not generally subject to government control. The project closing date
was extended by one year from December 31, 1996 to December 31, 1997. The
extension was possible due to the availability of additional funds in the budget, in part
because the project benefited from exchange rate fluctuations between the Special
Drawing Rights (SDR), in which the Grant was made available, and US dollars, in which
the Grant was disbursed. Additional funds were also made available after the turtle
ranching study was dropped. The extension was mutually agreed upon in order to allow
for implementation of additional project activities such as the oil spill tracking and



9
control equipment and the tortoise monitoring on Aldabra. This had no negative impact
on project implementation.
35.   Factors generally subject to government control. The Grant Recipient did not
have a National Coordinator with adequate experience in procurement and disbursement
procedures for a period of two years and this delayed communication and certain
procedural operations. There was also a high staff turnover at the Ministry level for the
first few years of project implementation. This resulted in slow implementation and
disbursement lags during the initial years. The appointment of a qualified National
coordinator and reduction in staff turnover during the last three years of project
implementation resolved the problem.
36.   Disbursement bottlenecks between the Ministry of Finance and the implementing
agencies have also had some adverse effects on project progress, i.e. the inactivity of the
special account at the Nouvo Banque. The Project Accountant and the National
Coordinator experienced difficulties in receiving monthly statement of accounts from the
Bank. These were resolved when the Bank met with the Ministry of Finance and
requested that these statements be sent directly to the project unit. The achievement of
project objectives was negligibly affected.
37.   In some instances, audit reports from the SIF did not follow the standard terms of
reference agreed and presented in the Project Implementation Handbook. Discussions
between the Bank and the Grant Recipient ensured that further reports were in line with
the accepted format. This had a negligible impact on the Project.
38.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.  Delays in
disbursement by certain national agencies, in particular the SIF, led to delays in
completing certain project activities. In various instances in the early stages of project
implementation, the SIF could not complete TORs, contracts, and disbursements on time,
the responsibility of which had to be taken over by the Project Accountant and the
National Coordina.tor. This partially affected the project achievements. The appointment
of an Executive Officer at the SIF resolved this problem.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
39.   Overview. Overall, it is likely that the Grant Recipient will sustain general
project achievements. Despite certain capacity constraints, typical of small island states,
all the implementing agencies are committed to sustaining and furthering project
components. Since the project has resulted in progress in infrastructure development,
scientific knowledge and skills, institutional building, policy and legislation, and public
awareness, as well as in project planning, management, and monitoring skills in key
organizations, Grant Recipient interest in sustaining the project is high. In fact, relevant
activities under the turtle and Aldabra components have already been incorporated in the



10
work program and recurrent budget of the respective implementing agencies. Turtle and
tortoise monitoring, for example, have become routine activities undertaken by staff of
SIF, the Ministry of Environment, the Marine Park Authority and islands such as Cousin,
Cousine and Aride.
40.   The sustainability of marine pollution abatement is uncertain at the moment.
While this project component has been successfully completed, the actual construction of
reception facilities, which was outside the original project scope, is still uncertain as it is
not clear how the Government can initiate construction within the short term unless it
receives external assistance to do so.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
41.   Introduction. The Bank played a pivotal role in the overall success of the project
and its role in assisting the Seychelles with the preparation of the EMPS led to linkages
with other donors involved in implementing EMPS projects. Project identification and
preparation took place prior to and after the launch of the EMPS in 1991. The signing of
the agreement was on January 15, 1993. Midterm review was in November 1994. Staff
turnover on the Bank side during the initial project implementation period had some
adverse effects on supervision of the project.
42.   Identification and preparation. The identification and preparation of the project
grew out of Bank involvement in the preparation of the EMPS. During this period, as a
Seychelles team of staff and consultants prepared the EMPS, the Bank's advice was
sought on specific topics, such as protection of sea turtles and waste management.
Together with other donors, the Bank analyzed the EMPS at the donors meeting in
February 1991 and indicated its priorities for support. Of the EMPS programs, actions to
protect biodiversity and to limit the pollution of international waters were identified as
the most compatible of the goals of the GEF.
43.   Appraisal. The Appraisal Mission visited Seychelles in July 1992 and consisted
of three Bank staff. The mission worked closely with the Ministry of Economic Planning
and External Relations as well as the staff of the former Division of Environment.
44.   Resource Mobilization. The Project design was such that all activities were
provided with what was believed to be adequate funding for implementation. Resources
proved to be largely adequate for all project components except for the Waste Reception
Facilities which had a cost overrun of about 40 percent. Overall, due to cost saving under
some project components (the turtle artisan compensation program and the turtle ranching
study) and due to exchange rate fluctuations the funds available under the project were
sufficient to cover cost overruns and to allow for extra activities to be undertaken
(reconstruction of the Aldabra research station instead of mere rehabilitation, preparation
of the Giant Tortoise Management Plan).



I 
45.   Working Documents. Detailed documentation was prepared and distributed to
the Grant Recipient during Appraisal including information on Bank policies and on the
GEF. An Implementation Handbook was produced and the National Coordinator trained
in its use. Copies of a guide for preparation of accounts and audits were also presented to
the Project Accountant.
46.   Supervision. The Bank devoted some 80 staff weeks to the supervision of the
Envirorunent and Transport Loan, the Dutch Trust Fund, and the GEF program through
1997. During the first three years of operations from 1993 to 1995, supervision focused
mainly on progress toward achieving specific objectives, such as completion of works,
the studies, and on monitoring the performance of implementing agencies. Towards 1996
and 1997, the emphasis shifted more fully toward evaluation of results and follow-up.
The Bank continued a policy of open, two-way exchange of information with all
environmentally related agencies in, Seychelles. Limited budget availability made
adequate supervision of the many project sub-components difficult as it was not possible
to send a multidisciplinary team on all supervision missions.
47.   There was a high staff turnover during the first two years of project
implementation which had some negative impact on project implementation. It is also
noted that the alternating system of the Task Managers did not always respond to the
Grant Recipient's needs. In certain cases when the Task Manager was not in-office in
Wa'shington, the Grant Recipient had difficulties in communicating with the Bank
regarding project-specific issues.  Overall, however, smooth and excellent liaison
between the present National Coordinator and the Task Manager has been the norm
throughout the project.
48.   There was adequate flexibility in implementing the objectives of the project
throughout.  Previous working experience between Bank staff and the personnel
representing the Grant Recipient ensured easy communication thus leading to rapid
identification and approval of changes in either project scope or design. When writing
the TOR for the Turtle Consultant, for example, it was mutually agreed that an additional
objective of the Consultant should be Giant Tortoise Protection Program including
Management Plans. Modifications were also made during project implementation largely
through changes in implementation schedules due to logistical and personnel constraints
and also to allow a more realistic time schedule for one of the project components.
49.   Mid Term Review. A mid term review focusing on EMPS implementation as a
whole was carried out in November 1994. The review was carried out jointly by the
Bank and the Grant Recipient. Resources for Bank participation were included in the
supervision schedule, as well as in the Bank's economic and sector work program for
1995. This exchange of views resullted in the mutual evaluation of the success at mid-
term of project elements and agreements on remedial actions and certain modifications.
The review also covered the overall managerial efficiency and performance of SIF, the
progress in the sea turtle protection program and the tortoise monitoring. The Grant



12
Recipient prepared a report on the progress of impleimentation with emphasis on the
above-mentioned issues for purposes of the mid term review.
F. GRANT RECIPIENT PERFORMANCE
50.   Project Preparation.  Project preparation was satisfactory.  As mentioned
previously, the projects were prepared for the EMPS, an exercise which was facilitated
and encouraged by the Bank as part of the National Environment Action Plan (NEAP)
process ongoing in many parts of the world. The relevant sectors' views were sought on
the different priorities and gaps within their respective mandates and projects were
formulated to implement these priorities and bridge the gaps. A team composed of
Seychellois staff and consultants prepared the projects with advice from the Bank, other
donors and technical agencies. The document was finalized at a pre-donors' conference
and technical seminar where working groups analyzed and refined the project proposals.
51.   The intended beneficiaries participated in project design and preparation in
several specific ways. Turtle shell artisans were consulted on the approach taken in the
turtle management program to facilitate their re-absorption into the labor force in another
occupation, as was the parastatal artisanal company CODEVAR, the implementing
agency for this sub-component. Scientists associated with the Royal Society and the
Smithsonian Institution who have worked on Aldabra have been closely involved with
the proposals for restoration and preservation of the atoll at all times. The Ministry of
Tourism and Transport (MTT) through the Ports and Marine Services Division (PMSD)
was involved in the marine pollution component at all stages.
52.   Project Implementation.  The project was demanding for the Grant Recipient.
A substantial component of the project involved remote locations where certain quite
demanding works had to be realized. With Aldabra, for example, the remoteness of the
Atoll, the difficult sea conditions and the constraints in communication posed a definite
challenge for the transport of construction material and workers and the actual building of
the structures.
53.   The normal manager-worker relationship on Aldabra, typical of islands in the
Seychelles, needed to be modified to provide an enabling environment for scientific and
conservation officers working and living permanently on the island.  This was
compounded by difficulties in recruiting educated and competent nationals to staff key
functions on Aldabra. The remoteness and limited communication and access have had
adverse cost implications on conducting scientific research.
54.   The appointment of a National Coordinator and Project Accountant has greatly
facilitated the project implementation process. The implementing agencies have also
improved their implementation and operational capacity as the project progressed. There
has been a strong learning element in the project and all the implementing agencies have
seized the opportunity to better their project management skills with time.



13
55.   Reporting. The Grant Recipient has prepared quarterly reports describing the
progress of each program element from the standpoint of its physical, financial, and
socio-economic elements. These reports have reviewed the performance of implementing
agencies, monitored the key indicators of progress in fulfillment of program goals, and
identified major key indicators of progress.
56.   Covenant Compliance. Financial covenants have been complied with. All
records and accounts including those of the Special Account have been audited and
furnished to the Bank on a timely basis. All expenditures with respect to withdrawals
have been maintained in accordance with Bank procedures and made available to the
Bank.
57.   Project Complexity and Risk. The project was complex and risky for the Grant
Recipient. In the case of the Turtle Shell Compensation Study conducted by CODEVAR,
the risk involved both convincing turtle shell artisans and policy makers of the necessity
of the phasing-out of the industry, as well as the design and initiation of a retraining and
re-installation program. This came at a time when Government had begun tentative
moves to promote free enterprise and more democratization. For the country as a whole,
the banning and complete removal of an activity that had been one of the few traditional
crafts in the island, as well as the cessation of turtle meat sale, was difficult to implement
into law and comply with.
58.   Counterpart Funds. Counterpart funds have been managed in a satisfactory
manner. There have been no instances of mismanagement or misallocation of counterpart
funding.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
59.   Overview. Overall, the outcome of the project is highly satisfactory. All its
original objectives have been achieved and in certainr cases surpassed. Sector policy and
financial, physical, and environmental objectives have been met. The project has
benefited the Seychelles by assisting it to protect key components of its biodiversity, thus
fulfilling national objectives for nature conservation as well as sustainable development
laid out in the EMPS. The project has also benefited the international community by
addressing issues of global concern, in particular abatement of marine pollution in
international waters, protection of a World Heritage Site and protection of globally
threatened marine turtles.   The endangered turtles component has become a
demonstration project for meeting the challenges of conservation through win-win
situations; alternative forms of livelihoods and compensation have been provided for the
foregone benefits of turtle harvesting to local populations. The Aldabra program being
solution-oriented did not only arrest degradation but achieved restoration and scientific
management of the ecosystem as well. As the Seychelles was the first Western Indian
Ocean Nation to have signed the MARPOL Convention, the design of port waste



14
reception and disposal has clearly demonstrated the willingness of the international donor
community to assist developing countries in complying with international conventions.
60.   Institutional Development. Institutional development has been satisfactory.
Several steps have been taken to strengthen the coordination and management role of the
project team and key implementing agencies. The project has resulted in improvements
in turtle legislation, policy and scientific skills at all levels. Enforcement of legislation
has also been improved in the case of the turtles. In a move not related to the project, the
Division of Environment was upgraded to a Ministry in 1997. There are still efforts to be
made in institutional development within the SIF to better prepare it to manage Aldabra.
One step would be the appointment of a highly motivated and experienced senior
executive officer with relevant scientific background and managerial expertise to manage
and promote international scientific research on Aldabra.
61.   The appointment and continuing role of the National Coordinator has been made
possible due to the strong recommendations of the Bank. Due to staff turnover, four
persons have served in this capacity to date. Despite a substantial period where
coordination was weak, the overall objective of having one focal point with the
responsibility of supervising the progress of EMPS execution, providing advice to
implementing agencies, and exchanging information has been a success. The
development of certain skills of participating staff in the MoE, CODEVAR and the SIF
has been an important achievement of the project.
62.   Physical Objectives. Achievement of physical objectives of the project have been
fully satisfactory. The renovation and repair of buildings and facilities on Aldabra have
been successfully completed and are currently being utilized by the SIF. The research
station has also been equipped with laboratory and other field and management
equipment. Equipment for goat control has also been delivered and has been used in the
goat eradication campaign. Materials for turtle and tortoise monitoring, and tagging have
been purchased and used in the appropriate manner. Emergency oil spill tracking and
control equipment have been financed and delivered.
63.   Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives. Achievement of global
environmental objectives are deemed to, have been fully satisfactory. The turtle shell
industry is now illegal but also importantly, virtually moribund. Training, information,
resources and linkages provided under the project has led to augmentation in protection
of turtles in the field. Owing to the long term monitoring now in place, the knowledge
base for conservation of turtles has been increased. The Giant Tortoise sub-component
has led to knowledge for the first time in Seychelles of the numbers of captive tortoises
and the trade in the animals. Draft Management Plans for Turtles, Tortoises and Aldabra
Special Reserve will serve as benchmarks for future conservation work.
64.  Incrementallity of GEF Financing. The project was primarily focused in areas
with limited national benefits like the rehabilitation of Aldabra World Heritage Site and
the protection of Seaturtles; both constitute resources that can not be used for



15
consumption anymore. Consequently most of the financing can be assessed as globally
incremental and only a minor part would be primarily of national benefit. Obviously the
existence of seaturtles in Seychelles is of value to the tourism industry and so will a better
management capacity of the Aldabra. The project also generated further private and
official investments in conservation and helped catalyze the governments efforts in
conservation and marine pollution pre vention.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
65.   Recommendations.  It is recommended that the Government of Seychelles
implement the following in order to maximize project benefits and ensure its
sustainability:
a) Project for construction of waste facilities. To enable the Seychelles to comply
with MARPOL, it is suggested that a project be implemented to build the facilities
recommended in the study for design of facilities for reception and disposal of waste.
This project should include measures to make operations of the facility more
economically viable.
b) Improve turtle and tortoise legislation. Certain loopholes still remain in the turtle
legislation. This concerns for example the possession of worked shell by artisans. In
addition, the current fines and sanctions in the legislation are far too low compared to
the potential revenues to be earned by violating certain aspects of the law. Regarding
the Tortoise legislation, this was promulgated in 1976. The legislation needs to be
completely updated and modified. Local matching commitments to CITES must also
be included in the legislation to enable the country to comply to this international
agreement to which it is a Party.
c) Strengthen the institutional capacity of SIF. Difficulties with project implementa-
tion indicate that the post of executive officer may be too demanding for one person.
The holder of the post is expected to have experience in personnel management,
administrative and financial matters, project design and implementation, logistics,
scientific and technology issues, public awareness, protected areas management, and
conservation of biodiversity in general. Such a multidisciplinary person may be
difficult to come upon, and if located may not find the salary structure attractive. It is
recommended that an additional position be created at a more senior level i.e. chief
executive officer to take up the demanding technical and management
responsibilities.
d) Review the composition of the SIF Board. The difficulties in management of the
project, the personnel on Aldabra, logistics and operations make the review of the SIF
Board necessary. Problems experienced during the project are systemic and ongoing.
It may mean that persons with recent practical and proven experience in capacity
building, environmental project implementation and biodiversity management should



16
be appointed to provide better oversight and advice for the overall management of
Aldabra and to ensure sustainability of the project components put in place there. As
the guiding force of two World Heritage Sites, the Board must reflect current
expertise and approaches in the world of biodiversity conservation and sustainable
use of its components. Related to the above, it is further recommended that the SIF
forge links and formal partnerships with organizations having experience in
biodiversity program management within the country and in the region to augment its
expertise, build synergy and increase awareness. Such organizations include for
example the Marine Parks Authority and BirdLife International in Seychelles, and in
the region the Mauritius Wildlife Appeal Trust, the IUCN Eastern African Regional
Office, the Western Indian Ocean Marine Science Association (WIOMSA) and the
SAREC marine and coastal program for Eastern Africa. Participatory approaches are
now known to be crucial to the long-term success of biodiversity conservation.
e) Enhance the National Coordinator position. Lessons learned during project
execution lead to the conclusion that a motivated National Coordinator is the corner
stone of successful project management. Nevertheless, this is presently a relatively
low position in the administrative hierarchy and does not allow for meaningful
interactions and interventions on various levels. It is recommended therefore that the
Government enhance the position of the National Coordinator to more fully reflect the
importance of the role.
66.   Recommended Bank follow-up. The Bank's Mission of June 1997 reviewed
with the Government a series of operations and projects that could be considered under a
new GEF. These projects have been identified and project proposals drawn up and
submitted. They are:
e Implementation of Turtle Management Plans for Seychelles;
- Conservation of Avian Ecosystem;
* Seychelles Whale Shark Program - Telemetric Tracking Proposal;
* Restoration and Preservation of World Heritage Sites;
* Control of Freshwater Aquatic Weeds in Seychelles;
* Establishment and Implementation of a Critical Marine Protected Area; and
*  The Bank and the Government of Seychelles are currently discussing the possibility
of initiating a 'second EMPS'.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
67.   Overall, staffing constraints have been a strong limiting factor. Local staff in
implementing agencies were burdened with many demanding and conflicting activities.
In addition, management skills, which are a center part of implementation success, were
found to be weak in many cases. In most cases delays and bottlenecks in the project
implementation were caused by lack of competent staff. To ensure smooth project
implementation, motivated and qualified staff with management skills and sector-specific
knowledge should be appointed as Project coordinators.



17
68.   For project components in'volving strong socio-economic elements, such as
turtles, a socio-economist or environmental economist should be involved in project
design and implementation for the purpose of quantifying benefits and costs of natural
resource management and use options. This may also ease general populist claims of the
creation of economic disadvantaged classes and social inequalities by international
agency programs.
69.   Projects involving remote islands such as Aldabra should be approached with care
and thorough inquiry into the logistics, and management capabilities of the implementing
agencies. During this project, the distance and obstacles in communication with Aldabra
posed a problem.
70.   Overall, waste facility projects should consist not only of design components but
should be more proactive and incorporate implementation modalities as well. The study
for designing of waste reception and disposal facilities was intended as a means to build
consensus on the need for building cost efficient reception and disposal facilities at the
port of Victoria. The project has achieved this objective but it is still difficult to identify
funding requirements for the actual construction.
71.   Additional budgetary resources for adequate funding for supervision by the Bank,
especially for projects involving complex natural resource components, has proved
necessary. However resources were only provided for one supervision mission a year.
The multidisciplinary nature of the GEF program made it difficult to adequately
supervise and monitor all the sub-components within the time and resources allocated.



I



19
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Tables:
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Grants
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Grant Disbursements
Table 5 & 6:  Key Indicators
Table 7:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9A:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Legal Covenants



20
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Project Objectives
Assessment      1 Substantial    Partial   f   Negligible    Not Applicable
Categories
Macro Policies                                                          X
Sector Policies            X
Financial Objectives        X
Institutional                            X
development
Physical objectives         X
Poverty reduction                                                        X
Gender concerns                                                         X
Other social objectives                                                 X
Environmental               x
objectives
Public sector                                                            X
management
Private sector 
management
Private sector                                                           X
development
Other                                                                    X
B. Project Sustainability
Likely          |Uncertain                  |Unlikely
x~~~~~~~~~~~
C. Bank Performance
Stage of Project    Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory          Deficient
Cycle
Identification              X
Preparation                 X
Appraisal                   X
Supervision                 X



21
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
D. Borrower Performance
Stage of Project  J Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory    |     Deficient
Cycle
Preparation                 X
Implementation              X
Covenant                    X
Compliance
Operation                                       X
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly        Satisfactory     Marginally     Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                    Unsatisfactory
x



22
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Grants
Loan/Grant/Title              Purpose               Year of          Status
Approval
L 3551 Sey           - Assist with implementation of    1995      Implementation
the Environmental Management
Seychelles             Plan of Seychelles (EMPS)
Environment and      - Support environmental programs
Transport Project     in resource management,
Biodiversity conservation, and
marine pollution control
- Improve the basis for sustained
tourism growth by facilitating
tourist access, while preserving
or restoring environmentally
sensitive areas
TF 23465 Sey         - Preservation and maintenance of  1994          Closed
Seychelles unique Eco-system
Dutch Trust Fund
- Preservation of biological
diversity
Medium Sized GEF    - Avian Ecosystem Conservation      1998         Appraisal
Conservation of      - Establishment and Protection of
Biological Diversity  a critical marine protected area
- Restoration of the World
Heritage Sites
Institutional        - Assist with revision of the      1998        Preparation
Development Fund       existing and preparation of a
(IDF) Environmental    new Environmental
Management and         Management Plan for
Hazard Prevention      Seychelles (EMPS)
- Capacity building on emergency
response to Environmental
Hazards



23
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date planned        1    Date actual/estimate
Identification (Executive           September 1991               September 1991
Project Summary)
Preparation                          January 1992                 January 1992
Appraisal                             June 1992                    June 1992
Negotiations                       November 1992                 November 1992
Board presentation                  December 1992                December 1992
Signing                              January 1993                15 January 1993
Effectiveness                        January 1993                9 February 1993
Midterm Review                     November 1994                 November 1994
Project closing Date'             31 December 1996             31 December 1997
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.
Table 4: Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
IBRD Fiscal Year    Appraisal Estimates  Actual Disbursement         Actual as
(in '000 USD)        (in '000 USD)         Percentage of
Estimates (in %)
FY 1993                 300                    0                     0
FY 1994                 700                   416                   22
FY 1995                 600                   615                   54
FY 1996                 200                   327                   72
FY 1997        __471                                                96
FY 1998        __71                                                 100
Total                 1,800                 1,900
The Project was extended based on the availability of additional funds in the budget. The project
benefited from exchange rate fluctuations between SDR (Special Drawing Rights), in which the grant
is made available and USD in which the grant is disbursed. The extension was agreed upon to allow
for implementation of additional project activities.



24
Table 5 & 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Overall Project: Biodiversity Conservation and Marine Pollution Abatement
Project Objectives:   1. Assist with implementation of the Enviro.nental Management Plan of Seychelles (EMPS)
2. Support environmental programs in Biodiversity conservation and marine pollution control
3. Improve the basis for sustained tourism growth by facilitating tourist access, while preserving environmentally sensitive areas
Expected Cost         USD 2.1 million with USD 1.8 million (SDR 1.3 million) GEF grant funding and USD 0.3 million Government funding
Actual Expenditure:   USD 2.2 million with USD 1.9 million (SDR 1.3 million) GEF grant funding and USD 0.3 million Government funding
Component 1: Restoration and Preservation of the Aldabra Eco-system
Project Objectives:   1. Renovation and Repair of Research Station
2. Strengthening of Managerial and Scientific Personnel
3. Control of Goats
4. Preparation of Long Term Management Plan
5. Aldabran Giant Tortoise Census (additional: not defined in staff appraisal report)
Expected Cost:        Total USD 645,000 with USD 595,000 GEF grant funding and USD 50,000 Government funding
Actual Expenditure:   Total USD 955,000 with USD 905,000 GEF grant funding and USD 50,000 Government funding
Objective and description     Output expected              Output achieved              Impacts expected             | Impacts achieved
I. Renovation and0R epai 6ofAda Research Station
Renovation and repair of     Completion of research        Research facilities on Aldabra    *  Rehabilitation of the 20  Improved research quality on
buildings & facilities       facilities on Aldabra         have been rehabilitated instead  years old research station,   Aldabra based on the
of repaired using log homes      through financing of its  rehabilitation of the 20 years old
installed on already existing    second phase after        research station
foundations:                     completion of 1989 phase
*   Renovation of the
laboratory
*   Repairs to the
accommodation block
*   Construction of sanitation
system



25
Objective and description   Output expected              Output achieved               Impacts expected             Impacts achieved
Purchase of laboratory & other   Procurement of laboratory &  *   Equipment acquired:  *  To acquire necessary      *    More suitable facilities
equipment                   other equipment                   tables, bookcases, water    equipment to replace and        for improving quality of
and gas supply, beds,      supplement existing             research on Aldabra are
camping equipment           facilities in order to         in place
*   Rapid Reaction boat         improve quality of research
purchased                   on Aldabra
*   Additional outboard
engines purchased
*   Laboratory equipment
purchased
*   Communication and
Computing facilities
purchased and installed
2. 2.'.'gohening~f Manhagerald and Sct"fi cPersonnel
Employment of Scientific and    Recruitment of Scientific and    Two teams of two research  *    To ensure necessary  *  Necessary continuity of
Managerial Officers on Aldabra  Managerial staff          officers/warden (expatriates)     continuity of action for    action for conservation
have been recruited for a 4 year  conservation programs       programs ensured
period
Renovation of SIF head office    Upgrading of SIF head office    SIF Head office renovated,  *    To provide a better  *   Better environment for
facilities on Mahe (additional    Mahe                    supplied with proper office       environment for the day-     day-to-day management of
activity - not defined in staff                          equipment:                        to-day management of          World heritage Sites
appraisal report)                                                                           World Heritage sites         affairs provided
*   Provision of proper           affairs
signboards to attract
visitors
*   Environmentally friendly
decoration of SIF window
*   Purchase of office
equipment including
furniture and computer



26
Objective and description  | Output expected          | Output achieved              J Impacts expected         1 Impacts achieved
E=m==: _= ===1
Feral Goat Eradication Program   Completion of Feral Goat    Feral Goat Eradication was  *   To improve habitat   *   Habitat conditions to
Eradication Program       completed with its last phase      conditions to foster        foster growth of Giant
financed under the Dutch Trust    growth of Giant Tortoise     Tortoise population have
Fund                              population                   been improved
*   Goats do not destroy trees
and shrubs which the
tortoises need for shade
*   Goats do not compete for
food with Giant Tortoise
Population
*   Goats do not disturb
regeneration of vegetation
*   Soil erosion minimized
*  Destruction of vegetation
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _sto p p ed   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
,,; <,=-ra, ,iFFE .... i .;, ..   r.   .l,,;DtiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;iiiii....     ...........spe
Long Term Management Plan    Completion of Long Term    Draft of Long Term Management *  To ensure long temi      *  Improved knowledge on
Management Plan           Plan completed, final version     planning for Aldabra        Eco-tourism prospects
being edited locally by SIF                               *  Improve knowledge on
Board Members                                                institutional requirements
for SIF and management
system for Aldabra to
ensure long term
sustainable management
of Aldabra
Completion of Aldabran Giant   Completion of Aldabran   Field report on Aldabran Giant    *  To ensure long term  *  Improved knowledge on
Tortoise Census and Vegetation  Giant Tortoise Census and    Tortoise Census and Vegetation  management of Giant      population dynamics
Dynamics Study (additional   Vegetation Dynamics Study   Dynamics Study completed, final  Tortoise Population on  *  Improved knowledge on
activity - not defned in staff                          report being edited               Aldabra                     vegetation dynamics
appraisal report). 



27
Component 2: Sea Turtle Protection Program
Expected Cost:          Total USD 1.26 million with USD 1.06 million GEF grant funding and USD 200,000 Government funding
Actual Expenditure:     Total USD 806,000 with 606,000 GEF grant funding and USD 200,000 Government funding
Project Objectives:     1. Green Turtle Management Program: to establish and maintain a sustainable harvesting regime
2. Hawksbill Turtle Management Program: to enable Seychelles to comply with the stipulations of the CITES convention
3. Giant Tortoise Management Plan (additional: not defned in staff appraisal report)
Objective and description     (Output expected               Output achieved                 Impacts expected             Impacts achieved
.                                    ,   ,  .   :,   '  . ... ..  -   ' ' ' :'.'::.';,' - ........... ........................................   .. ... ... ... ... .    . ... .. ... ...... ... ... ... ... ... .  
Stock Assessment              ] Update of 10 years old data  Stock assessment data base      *    Improved knowledge    *    Knowledge on number,
completed:                           on number, size,             size, gender and location
gender and location of       of Green turtles has been
*    International Consultant       Green turtles to ensure      improved to ensure
hired                          better monitoring of its      better monitoring of its
*   equipment purchased             population growth and         population growth and
*   Knowledge on species            better preservation of        better preservation of the
improved                       the species                   species
*    Data base established and
regularly updated
*    MOE capacity built and
local staff trained in stock
assessment
Management Plan                Preparation of Management    Management Plan and              *  To improved MOE's         *   MOE capability in
Plan including feasible       monitoring programs for main       capability in enforcing       enforcing regulations has
monitoring programs           islands and some outer islands     regulations                   been improved
completed:                     *   To reduce numbers of      *   Number of turtles killed
*    Monitoring programs           turtles killed for            for consumption and trade
used on main and some         consumption and trade         between islands have
outer island by MOE and       between islands               been reduced
other stakeholders
*    Local staff trained and
sensitized                                     .



28
Objective and description   J Output expected           j Output achieved             Impacts expected              Impacts achieved
Feasibility study of Hawksbill    Completed feasibility study    shelved              *  To improve knowledge on   *  none
turtle farming                on turtle farming                                           full costs as well as
benefits of turtle farm
Turtle trade compensation study  Completed turtle trade   Study has been completed    *   To improve knowledge on  Knowledge obtained as basis
compensation study                                          stock of turtle which is    for artisans compensation and
being sold, worked and   training
re-sold as finished product
artisans possessing a
license
*   To improve knowledge on
artisans possessing a
license
Re-training of artisans involved   Artisans trained in new  *   All artisans who      *   To provide artisans with    *   Artisans have been
in working Hawksbill turtle   professions                      requested training have     new business                  provided with new
shell                                                          been trained                opportunities in order to     business opportunities in
form new livelihoods          order to form new
besides turtle shell          livelihoods besides turtle
artisanary to stop killing    shell artisanary to stop
of turtles for this purpose   killing of turtles for this
purpose
Provide revenue compensation    *    All artisans being   *   All artisans have been    *    Artisans provided with    *   Artisans provided with
for artisans for a period of up to  compensated (cash or       compensated (cash or         start up facilities for new  start up facilities for new.
three years                        credit) as required         credit) as required          business or retirement      business or retirement
*    Work shell to be     *    Work shell was bought        compensation                compensation based on
bought off artisans         off artisans                                            their requirements
Stock assessment              Update of data              *   Stock assessment data    *   Improved knowledge on    *   Knowledge on number,
base completed;            number, size, gender and      size, gender and location
*   Intemational               location of Hawksbills to      of Hawksbills have been



29
Consultant hired          ensure better monitoring     improved to ensure
*   Equipment purchased       of its population growth     better monitoring of its
*   Knowledge on species      and better preservation of   population growth and
improved                  the species                  better preservation of the
*   Data base established                                  species
and regularly updated
*   MOE Capacity built
and local staff trained
in stock assessment
Management Plan             Preparation of Management    Management Plan and      *   To improve MOE'S         *   MOE's capability in
Plan including feasible    monitoring programs for        capability in enforcing      enforcing regulations
monitoring programs        main islands and some outer    regulations                  has been improved
islands completed:        *   To reduce numbers of     *   Number of turtles killed
*   Monitoring programs       turtles killed for artisanal  for artisanal purposes
used on main and some     purposed and trade           and trade between the
outer island by MOE       between the islands          islands have been
and other stakeholders                                 reduced
*   Local staff trained and
sensitized
3. Giant Tortoise Management Program (additional not defined in staff appraisal report)
Stock Assessment            Update data                *   stock assessment data   .   To improve knowledge on  *   Knowledge on number,
base completed:           number, size, gender and     size, gender and location
*   International consultant  location of Giant tortoise   of Giant Tortoise
hired                     population on main islands   population on main
*   Equipment purchased   *   MOE capacity building        islands has been
*   Knowledge on species                                   improved
improved                                          *   MOE capacity building
*   Data base established
and regularly updated
.      *   MOE capacity built and
local staff trained in
stock assessment



30
Management Plan                 Preparation of Management    Management Plan and           *    To improve knowledge on   *    Knowledge on species
Plan including        monitoring programs for           species                          has been improved
feasible monitoring    main islands completed      *    To advise general public    *    General public has been
programs                                                on Giant tortoise keeping        advised on giant tortoise
*    To capacity built MOE's         keeping
staff in enforcement of    *    Capacity building for
regulation                      MOE's staff in
enforcement of
____________________________   _______ __________________  _________________ ________   _________________________ _   regulation



31
Component 3: Abatement of Marine Pollution: The MARPOL Convention
Expected Cost:        Total USD 203,000 WITH USD 153,000 GEF grant funding and USD 50,000 Government funding
Actual Expenditure:    Total USD 365,000 WITH USD 315,000 GEF grant funding and USD 50,000 Government funding
Project Objectives:    1. Study Phase 1 A:   Identification of scope and nature of pollution problem in Port Victoria
Recommendation of adequate collection and disposal of waste for Port Victoria
2. Study Phase 1 B:    Detailed engineering designs for proposed waste reception facilities
3. Purchase of oil spill tracking and control equipment (additional: not defned in staff appraisal report)
Objective and description     Output expected               Output achieved             Impacts expected            Impacts achieved
1. Study  Phase   IA I:A                            :      :   : ::_::_._:_:_                                                           ;_E_E
Scope & nature of pollution   Study on pollution from ships in  Study on scope and nature of  *   Provide improved  *   Knowledge improved
problem in Port Victoria      Port Victoria                 pollution from ships in Port    knowledge on pollution   *   Basis for further study
Victoria completed              problem for better           and design of waste
management of the Port      reception facilities
*   Provide basis for design    provided
of waste reception
facilities for Port
Victoria
Recommendation of adequate    Preliminary design of waste   Preliminary design of waste    *   Provide basis for    Basis for detailed design of
collection and disposal facilities  reception facilities in Port  reception facilities in Port  detailed design of waste  waste reception facilities for
for Port Victoria             Victoria                      Victoria completed              reception facilities for    Port Victoria has been
Port Victoria          provided
2. Study Phase I B
Detailed engineering design for  Provision of detailed      Detailed engineering design    *   Pilot project for waste    *   Pilot project for waste
waste reception facilities    engineering designs for waste    for waste reception facilities  reception for a port in   reception facilities for a
reception facilities          provided                        the region                   port in the region
*   No actual facilities
were built (outside the
TOR of the project)



32
Objective and description    Output expected              Output achieved             Impacts expected           Impacts achieved
3. Purchase of oil spill tracking and control equipment (additional; not defned in staff appraisal report)
Purchase of oil spill tracking  Purchase of oil spill tracking  Oil spill tracking and control   *   Supply Seychelles  *   Seychelles Coast Guard
and control equipment        and control equipment        equipment purchased              Coast Guard with           has been supplied with
emergency equipment        emergency equipment
to re-act to minor oil    to react to minor oil
spills                    spills
Oil spill emergency training and  Improved capacity of    Capacity of Seychelles Coast  *   To equip Coast Guard    *   Coast Guard has been
capacity building for Seychelles  Seychelles Coast Guard  Guard improved:                 better to deal with         better equipped to deal
Coast Guard                                               *   Coast Guard personnel       minor oil spills            with minor oil spills
trained (regionally,
internationally



33
Table 7:       Studies Included in the Project
Study                         Purpose as defined   Status      Impact of study
at appraisal/re-
defined
1. Restoration and
Preservation of Aldabra
Eco-system
Assessments of change in the  New project        Field report   Better knowledge of change in Giant
Giant Tortoise Population and    activity, not defined  completed,    Tortoise Population and Vegetation
Vegetation Cover of Aldabra   at appraisal       fnal report    Cover on Aldabra to allow for
Atoll over the past two decades                  being         monitoring of the vegetation and
prepared      detecting deterioration at early stages
in the future
Aldabra Long Term             Defined at appraisal  Draft being    Long Term Management Framework
Management Plan                                  edited        for Aldabra put in place to ensure long
term management of the World
=______________________________ = __________________  H eritage   Site
Reports on Feral Goat Control    Defined at appraisal  Completed  Feral Goat Population controlled and
Project                                                        their threats to Tortoise habitat
eliminated
2. Turtle Protection Program
Turtles Shell Compensation    Defned at appraisal  Completed   Provided Basis for Artisan
Study                                                          Compensation and Training in order
to phase out turtle shell trading
Tortoise Management Plan      New project        Draft being    Policy and Management Frame work
activity, not defined  edited    provided
at appraisal
Sea Turtle Management Plan    Defined at appraisal  Draft being    Policy and Management Frame work
edited        provided
Sea Turtle Monitoring Programs  Defined at appraisal  Draft being    Provides for collection of long term
for different islands                            edited        data sets and population monitoring
Sea Turtle Ranching Study     Canceled
3. Waste Reception Facilities
(IMARPOL) study
Waste reception facilities for  Defined at appraisal  Completed  Provided detailed designs for waste
Port Victoria (Tebodin report)                                 reception facilities for the Port of
Phase IA                                                       Victoria
Waste reception facilities for  Defined at appraisal  Completed
Port Victoria (Tebodin report)
Phase 1B                           _



34
Table 8A: Project Costs
Item          Appraisal Estimates (in SR '000)    Actual Total (in SR '000)
Local costs  | Foreign | Total     Local  [ Foreign | Total
l Costs                Costs     Costs       _
1. Restoration and    397         2,576     2,973      757      3,768      4,525
Preservation of
Aldabra
Ecosystem
2. Protection of     3,029        2,284     5,313      1,344     1,686     3,030
Sea Turtles
Program                                                      .
3. Waste               77          688       765       110       1,465     1,575
Reception
facilities
(MARPOL) Study
Total                3,503        5,548     9,051     2,211      6,919     9,130
Table 8A: Restoration and Preservation of Aldabra Ecosystem
Item          Appraisal Estimates (in SR '900)    Actual Total (in SR '000)
Local costs   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign 1  Total
Costs  j            Costs     Costs
1. Rehabilitation     208         678        886       552      2,208      2,760
of Research
Station                                _
2. Strengthening       74          923       997        40       500        540
of Managerial and
Scientific
Personnel
3. Control of          88          732       820        80       670        750
Goats
4. Preparation of      27          243       270        10        90        100
Long Term
Management Plan                                      _ _
5. Tortoise Census     --          --        --        75        300        375
Total                 397         2,576     2,973      757       3,768     4,525



35
Table 8A: Sea Turtle Protection Program
Item         Appraisal Estimates (in SR '000)    Actual Total (in SR '000)
Local costs J Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Costs            ICosts       CostsI
1. Green Turtle       332        1,306      1,638     360       1,440     1,800
Management
Program
2. Hawksbill         2,697        978       3,675     984        246      1,230
Turtle
Management
program                                                    _
Total                3,029       2,284      5,313     1,344     1,686     3,030
Table 8A: Waste Reception facilities (MARPOL) Study
Item               Appraisal Estimates                 Actual Total
(in SR '000)                    (in SR '000)
Local costs   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Costs               Costs     Costs
1. Phase 1A           50          445       495        70       640        710
2. Phase 1B            27         243       270        40        350       390
3. Oil spill          --           --        --        --        475       475
Emergency
Response
Total                  77         688       765        110      1,465     1,575



36
Table 8B: Project Financing
Item     r        Appraisal estimates      1           Actual Total
(in '000 USD)                     (in '000 USD)
Local     Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign     Total
costs      costs      costs       costs      costs       costs
GEF Grant         0.6        1.2         1.8        0.5         1.4        1.9
Govennment        0.3        --          0.3        0.3         --         0.3
Total             0.9        1.2         2.1        0.8         1.4        2.2



37
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
During the appraisal of the project, a cost-benefit analysis was not prepared.
The following items are major benefits as projected in the appraisal report. All benefits
have been achieved:
In-country benefits:
1.    Collection and maintenance of data;
2.    Careful monitoring of impact;
3.    Systematic use of environmental impact assessments for major investments;
4.    Provisions of alternative forms of livelihood for turtle harvesters;
5.    Restoration and preservation of World heritage Site Aldabra.
Regional benefits:
1.    Pilot project for waste reception facilities in Port Victoria
International benefits:
1.    Pilot project in preserving endemic biodiversity in isolated island community.
As stated in the staff appraisal report, it is a necessary exercise to review the EMPS
(Environmental Management Plan of Seychelles 1990 - 2000) programs, including the
GEF measures, to determine its impacts on the country's ability to manage its natural
resources efficiently on completion of the plan by the year 2000. Ideally, the impacts will
be quantified as costs and benefits and one or more valuation techniques will be applied
to them. The World Bank is presently appraising a mid sized GEF for Seychelles where
this activity is likely to be included.



38
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreementt    Covenant  Status        Original          Revised         Description of
Section        Type              fulfillment date   fulfillment date    Covenant
GET Grant        Financial    C    Six months after                      Accounts/Audits
the end of each
No. 28627 SEY                       financial year
4.01                                (June 30,
______ ______   _______ _   1994-1998)  ___



39
Annex 1
Borrower comments on the ICR



40
REPUBLUC OF SEYCHELLES
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Maison Queau de Quinssy Mont Fleuri P 0 Box 666, Victoria, Mahl Seychelles
Tel: (248) 22 46 88 - Fax (248) 22 48 46 - E mail: mfapesey2seychelles.net
Please address all correspondence to the Principal Secretary
Our Ref: ECON/ENV/5/10
Date: 8. June 1998-
Mrs. M. Teymouian                                             SCANNED FILE CoPY
Task Manager                                              sin *N -
The World Eank                                        ,       Oste&
FILE (CIa.IAIPWrmmOot #) *nfC? GRITf ES WCcPRg Adm Proc
Dear Mehrnaz,l
RE:                 Global Environmental Facility (GEF)
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
Reference is made to the above-cited Implementation Complefion Report.
We are pleased to enclose the comments on the ICR by Government of Seychelles (GOS) and
GOS' report on the implementation experience of the GEF.
We would like to take this opportunity to endorse the ICR prepared by the World Bank in its
present form.
But for good understanding of the document,  6 on page IV should be corrected. This
paragraph makes reference to the disposal of turtle shell. The aim of the GEF was to eliminate
turtle shell circulation f trade. As you are aware, the shell has been safely despotised in a
container after being collected. We therefore feel, that the "outstanding disposal (buming /
dumping at sea)" is not an issue which undermines the overall success of this GEF component.
We hope, the above comment is useful to the overall ICR.
Please allow us to take this opportunity to thank the Bank and the task management team in
particular, for the excellent support and co-operation provided during implementation of the GEF.
We do hope to continue with this fruitful working relationship during the implementation of the
new MS - GEF's.
Thanks you for your usual co-operation.
Best regards,
Kerstin Henr (Mrs.)
Project Coordinator
For: PRINCIPAL SECRETARY



41
1
Government of Seychelles
B1otve-rstv Co  rvcLa&wi, y
A b)tenett of M ar6fle P&Ukttort'
Project
Implementation Experience
Key lessons leamt
The project grew out of the Worldl Bank's involvement in the preparation of the
Environmental Management Plan of Seychelles (EMPS). Out of the EMPS programs,
actions to protect biodiversity and to limit the pollution of the international waters around
Seychelles were identified as the most supportive of the goals of the GEF. These and
certain other projects in the EMPS were incorporated by the Bank into an integrated
Environment and Transport Project. The project cost was estimated at a total cost of
US$ 7 million. The Environment and Transport project was financed by a Bank loan of
US$ 4.5 million and by a Govemment of Seychelles (GOS) contribution of US$ 0.7
million, in addition to a Global Environment Facility (GEF) grant of US$ 2.2 million.
The GEF-financed biodiversity measures include the restoration and preservation of the
ecosystem of Aldabra Island, and the protection of endangered sea turtles. For the
marine pollution reduction the GEF would finance the design and justification of waste
reception facilities at the Port of Victoria.
General implementation experience:
The outcome of the project is satisfactory. All its objectives have been achieved and in
certain cases surpassed through the implementation of additional activities, such as
purchase of oil spill preparedness equipment and tortoise census. Sector policies,
financial objectives, physical objectives and environmental objectives have been met.
The project has benefited the Seychelles by assisting it to protect key components of its
biodiversity; thus fulfilling national objectives for nature conservation as well as
sustainable development laid out in the EMPS. The project has also benefited the
international community by addressing issues of global concern, in particular abatement
of marine pollution in intemational waters, protection of a World Heritage Site and
protection of globally threatened marine turtles.
The Aldabra program being solution-oriented did not only arrest degradation but
achieved restoration and scientific management of the ecosystem as well. The project
was demanding for GOS and the Bank. A substantial component of the project involved
remote locations where certain works had to be realised within a certain time frame. With
Aldabra, for example, the remoteness of the Atoll, the sometimes difficult sea conditions



42
2
and the constraints in communication posed a definite challenge for the transport of
construction material and workers and the actual building of the structures. The research
station has been constructed and is operational, a draft Management Plan has been
drawn up, and the atoll has been purged of all but a few goats.
As the Seychelles was the first Westem Indian Ocean Nation to have signed the
MARPOL Convention, the design of port waste reception and disposal has clearly
demonstrated the willingness of the intemational donor community to assist developing
countries in complying with intemational conventions. Seychelles now possesses
detailed proposals for waste disposal facilities that could be constructed to comply with
MARPOL. The component was strictly an engineering design, not providing funds for the
actual construction of waste facilities or for training.
Another demanding part of the project was to do with turtle products. The project
entailed banning the sale of turtle shell and a cessation of the commercialisation of turtle
meat and associated products. Because of the socio-economic background of the
Seychelles and strong feelings regarding continuing utilisation of turtles by certain
sections of society, it was extremely difficult for GOS to implement these sub-
components within the deadlines defined by the project The turtle and giant tortoise
populations have been assessed and management enhanced, personnel trained,
artisans re-installed in new professions and turtle shell trade effectively terminated. Early
difficulties in implementing turtle shell legislation and compensation of the turtle
component were due to changes in local implementing staff, as well as deep sociological
pattems of behaviour in Seychellois society. The endanaered turtles component has
become a demonstration project for meeting the challenges of conservation through win-
win situations; altemative forms of livelihoods and compensation have been provided for
the foregone benefits of turtle harvesting to local populations.
Overall, it is very likely that GOS will sustain general proiect achievements. Despite
certain capacity constraints, typical of small island states, all the implementing agencies
are committed to sustaining and furthering project components. Since the project has
resulted in progress in infrastructure development, scientific knowledge and skills,
institutional building including in policy and legislation, public awareness, project
planning and monitoring, and management skills in key organisations, GOS interest in
sustaining the project is high. In fact, relevant activities under the turtle and Aldabra
components have already been incorporated in the work program and recurrent budget
of the respective implementing agencies. Turtle and Tortoise monitoring for example
have become routine activities undertaken by staff of SIF, the Ministry of Environment,
the Marine Park Authority and islands such as Cousin, Cousine and Aride.
The sustainability of marine pollution abatement is uncertain at the moment. Although
this project component has been achieved successfully, the actual construction of the
reception facilities, which was outside the project scope, is still pending. It is uncertain
whether Govemment can initiate construction within the short term unless it receives
assistance to do so.



43
3
Key lessons learnt
* The structure of the project team should be retained for the next GEF project. An
efficient National Co-ordinator (GOS) and Task Manager (Bank) have proven to be a
key factor in ensuring project success and smooth linkage with the Bank.
* The alternating system of the Task Manager did not always respond GOS needs. In
certain cases when the Task Manager was not in-office in Washington, GOS had
difficulties in communicating with the Bank regarding project-specific issues. Overall,
smooth and excellent liaison between the present National Co-ordinator and the
Task Manager has been the norm throughout the project.
* Overall, staffing constraints have been a strong limiting factor. Local staffs in
implementing agencies were burdened with many other activities. In addition,
management skills, which are a centre-part of implementation success, were found
to be weak in some cases. Also, the mere presence of adequate staff is essential. In
most cases involving delays and bottlenecks in the project, staff competence and
presence (or lack of) was an important inhibitory factor.
* For project components involving strong socio-economic elements, such as turtles, a
socio-economist or environmental economist should be involved in project design
and implementation for the purpose of quantifying benefits and costs of natural
resource management and use options.
*  Projects involving Aldabra and other remote islands should be approached with care
and thorough inquiry into the logistics, and management capabilities of the
implementing agencies. During this project not only was the distance and obstacles
in communication with Aldabra a problem, but capacity constraints within SIF
compounded the difficulties.
* Waste facility projects should consist not only of design components but be more
proactive and incorporate implementation modalities. Whereas it may be difficult to
identify funding requirements prior to design, leaving this component out is
impractical since GOS is left with a situation where implementation becomes difficult
and the project output regarded as yet another paper study.
* Budgetary resources should be available for adequate supervision by the Bank,
especially for projects involving complex natural resource components. Resources
were provided for only one supervision mission a year. The multi-disciplinary nature
of the GEF program made it difficult to adequately supervise and monitor all the sub-
components within the time and resources allocated.



44
4
Recommendations:
It is recommended that the Govemment of Seychelles implements the following on an
individual project level in order to maximise project benefits:
a) Project for construction of waste facilities. To prevent the abatement of marine
pollution study from being yet another 'report on a shelf ', and to enable the
Seychelles to comply with MARPOL, it is suggested that a project be implemented.
In addition, this project should include components, which would recommend
measures to make operating the facility economically viable.
b) Improve turtle and tortoise legislation. Certain loopholes still remain in the turtle
legislation. This concems for example the possession of worked shell by artisans. In
addition, the current fines and sanctions in the legislation are far too low compared to
the potential revenues to be eamed by violating certain aspects of the law.
Regarding the Tortoise legislation, this was promulgated in 1976. The legislation
needs to be completely updated and modified. Local matching commitments to
CITES must also be included in the legislation to enable the country to comply with
this intemational agreement of which it is a Party.
c) Strengthen the Institutional Capacity of SIF. Difficulties with project implementation
indicate that the post of executive officer may be too demanding for one person. The
holder of the post is expected to have experience in personnel management,
administrative and financial matters, project design and implementation, logistics,
scientific and technology issues, public awareness, protected areas management,
and conservation of biodiversity in general. Such a multi-disciplinary person may be
difficult to come upon, and if located may not find the salary structure attractive. It is
recommended that an additional position be created at a more senior level (chief
executive officer?) to take up the demanding technical and management
responsibilities.
The following recommendations are proposed for possible consideration by all
concemed:
1. Program objectives need to be clearly defined and pro-active, resulting in physical
project implementation
2. Program activities should be all executed as far as possible and should allow for
certain flexibility in their original design.
3. Performance indicators should be introduced in all program design.
4. The total amount of funds involved in supervision should be adequate.
5. Future GEF's for Seychelles should rather be designed as smaller, individual grants
covering just one or two components in order to ease project supervision (such as
the new Mid Sized GEF initiative)



45
Annex 2
ICR Mission Aide-Memoire



46
Mission Aid-Memoir
November 1997
Preparation of the Medium Sized GEF Projects for
Management of globally threatened Birds in Seychelles
And, Marine Biodiversity Conservation
ICR for Biodiversity Conservation and Marine Pollution
Control GEF
A World Bank mission led by Mehrnaz Teymourian (Financial Analyst) and
including Carl Gustaf Lundin (Environment Specialist) visited Seychelles between
November 5 and November 20, 1997 to:
(I) assist in preparation of two medium sized Global Environmental Facilities for
(i) Management of Globally threatened Birds in Seychelles and (ii) Marine Biodiversity
Conservation in the Seychelles (the draft project Briefs are attached, Annex 1).
(II) discuss possibility of preparation of an Institutional Development Facility
(IDF) to assist in increasing Government capacity for (i) emergency preparedness and
mitigation plan, (ii) basic project design and implementation.
(II) review and discuss with the Government the first draft of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for the GEF for Biodiversity Conservation and Abatement of
Marine Pollution (TF 28627).
The mission also took the opportunity to meet with the officials at the Public
Utility Company (PUC) and the Land Transport Division (LTD) to briefly discuss the
progress under the ongoing Environment and Transport Project (Ln 3551). The mission
visited the roads on Praslin where rehabilitation works have been stopped due to floods
and incessant rain since August 1997.
The sites of the Dutch Trust Fund (DTF) projects administered by the Bank, on
the Curieuse and Ile Coco were visited. It was agreed with the Government that a
separate Implementation Completion Report should be prepared for the DTF project that
is also due to close on December 31, 1997.
The mission is most grateful for the assistance and cooperation it received during
its meetings with officials at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Economic Planning
(MFA). The Ministry of Environment (MoE), the Marine Parks Authority, the Marine
Conservation Society (MCSS), the Seychelles Islands Foundation (SIF), Bird Life
Seychelles, the Land Transport Division (LTD), the Disaster Relief Committee, and the
Public Utility Corporation (PUC).
A summary of main issues discussed and agreements reached with the
Government of Seychelles during the mission is presented below. Detailed findings of
the mission follows the summary.



47
...     .- .    -.. .-- . .- .- .    --...- . . .  .... .     .     . . . . .  . . . . ..  ..   ..  . ..     . . . .. .  . .  . .     .     . . .. . .. . .  .. . .
...     -.....Y :OFISES  DISCUSSEDAND AGREEMENTS REACHED
M......... m............. ... ...
en. danger  Birds:.The mission reviewed  d commented on vanou p   pect posasnd:it
~as areedthatthe rojet bref~  ibew finalzd anssbite t teBak arqs thels
~~~~~~~....  .....   ....1.fi-                       b'th6          EY
lem ing  Acyfpr essnyDecmbr15 7. 1                  it was dgrethat1th:eov :eral
dmiistrationnd nancial man.e men:Laofthe to proposed medium sized GEFs (esfimated at:
.SS 740,000 each) will.be with th-eEMWS coodinato a sr    pn t accountant atthie
A. TheMinistryofFina ne    the'requesiotfthie  MFA:will facilitate opengof separte.
.   .   ~ ~ ~.    ...   ...  . .  ... . . .. .  -  . . .         .. .           -
accounts at dtheCentral lBank fr- each.of hie prLojcts with the EMPS  and te sni
pu.jeet accowitanat the  FA as coesignatores t:.  .: the   :u nt      :
Govenme  an th ohe implmeningAcies (i.e SU:, athe Artias lIe lies on the furst
dra.of.the .IC.R  ill.betransmittedto the Bnkbe-rethe end o.. vem er .-nide-tion.
utch  Tr       d ......  .mp..io   Co..pleti. Rot  ..o. nt .. nances
pmaaitoft:h        -Gs reotudrth  i.Te ITFCompletion   n-r ille sbmitte to te
Bank for its comments b te  of November 1991 and will b rEvon           theC
Boiv .i Coer io an nePoUtion C                   l ..  . :.: . .   . ono l. ..
.tt  .to.a..e  Facilty: .T.e  ssion agreed.to subt t.Fi    for                :
on       of  the- B               Thet      F rquestwibe for i cty buling for
project .d . and m      ent, ) capacity b    for emergency preparedness and mitigatio
plannig.      ovrnmentwill submitits two proFsals for Bank considrtoer
3l>.l  ...........    .  .... :::    ::: :::    .:   -: p: t:   -biu ri t   toth
Envirornet an   .Tranpr Pjet (ii 3551>;;:
TeGovernents' requso exted te Loa closin dt for toyer fro  ue 30, 199 t
Jun3,k 1999 was ap.toved in June 1997 and tm e Loan agreement:wasamended to allow for
copleton ixofwrs for the Baie Lazare Water. Supply Scheme, the Casce foot Path and
Praslint Roads reabilitationu-The works for the Cascade foot Path and the w aslin roads have
however not .yet start.   due to heavy rains and:flodng since AUgUSt 19il. -
Aiix  :~~~~~~~~~~~ ::   -: : ::: ypearde
PUC: Audits o.the. PublcUtility Company for the year ending December 31, 1996, which were
due.by June 30, 1i 997 hae not yet been prepared.. The miiission would .like to raise its concerns
aot PUC';s contiued delays in preparnlg its acconts and having them audited. The mission
would like to req~t that the PUC and the Goverm entiproidet it-saccount ng divisone    wt
assijtance -it Wia r  iJo improve its fi9ancidl management and aceoun  g y . Te
'       .ission wciul labilitathat the submission th udCts is -aeand coe t of the Proj ct
Ageeent,sge beteen,s .t.he. Gvernment and the Worl-d Banik an4 failure to 'comply with this
cvan cl4 rult in suspension of disbusemients under this: comrponent of thie Loan. The
misiiircuaahth audte aconsallreport siuated in Atcle TV of the sad
awevert tbe .sub.ittedto the Bank as early as possible, and in any: event before December I 
SW: The audit of the .SIF i accounts for  f rY 1996 which .were due by June 30. 1997, have na y
ben received. . Sumissionw of the audit rport an the .Bank's approval of the proposed
Gwouliing Sreu i.th ePUCared with the Goverrnment thata aseparate audit will be
~~~~~. .       .. ..  ---. .. .-. ..    .-.... .I             .
Complet  a...io .. ...d..s 'been agree fdanca  aaretadkcutn            h
conducted on:the GEF and Dutch Trust Fund- afer they close onDecenbet. 3 ,h 197.
2



48
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF MISSION FINDINGS
I     Preparation of the Medium Size GEF Projects in Seychelles
The mission reviewed and discussed all the initial concepts that were prepared in May
and were subsequently developed with the project proposers and the MFA. The
following are the two main proposals that were deemed to conform best with the
specified Project Brief Requirements.
(i) Proposed Medium sized GEF for Marine Biological Diversity Protection
After discussion with MFA the following components will be submitted by the
government of Seychelles to the World Bank for consideration by the GEF: (a) Mooring
Installation Program; (b) Whale Shark Program; (c) Aldabra Group Marine Biodiversity
Management Program; (d) Sea Turtle and Coastal Habitat Management. Draft of these
project Briefs is attached in Annex 1.
Overall tk.e proposed components form a well balanced project addressing most of the
key biological diversity issues of global concern facing Seychelles marine and coastal
environment at this time. The proposed activities are all integral parts of the National
Bio-diversity Strategy and Action Program (NBSAP), and have excellent chances of
successful implementation as well as full government backing and endorsement. All the
above components were reviewed by the mission and discussed with the key proposers as
well as other relevant actors. Detailed comments have been given directly to the main
drafters of each component.
The co-financing of the project looks very promising since both government and private
as well as NGOs have been closely involved in the preparation of the proposals. The
mission would like to see further work particularly by SIF on securing research
cooperation with other donors or universities to provide additional resources for
successful implementation, particularly of component (c).
Overall the poor performance of SEF over the passed 8 months is the main concern facing
the implementation of this proposal. If a more functional administrative system can not
be put in place the implementation of the SIF components will be a serious concern. A
condition for approving the proposal as a whole should be the setting-up of a new
efficient and adapted management structure in the SIF office. If this is not undertaken
immediately the mission believes that much of the efforts done under the previous GEF
project will have been in vain.
(ii) Proposed Medium sized GEF for Management of Globally Threatened Birds in
Seychelles
The proposed project would consist of the following components: (a) Preparation and
3



49
initial implementation of Scops owl recovery plan; (b) Preparation and initial
implementation of Paradise flycatcher recovery plan; (c) Assessment and initial
restoration of habitat for globally threatened birds; (d) Preparation of action and recovery
plans for key threatened bird species; (e) Implementation of initial recommendation of
island restoration plan; (f) Socio-economic model of island restoration and management
of birds. Draft of this project Brief is attached in Annex 1.
Overall the proposed components form a well-balanced project addressing many of the
key biological diversity issues of global concern facing Seychelles birds at this time. The
proposed activities are all integral parts of the National Bio-diversity Strategy and Action
Program (NBSAP), and have excellent chances of successful implementation. All the
above components were reviewed by the mission and discussed with the key proposers as
well as other relevant actors. Detailed comments have been given directly to the main
drafters of the project brief
The co-financing by BirdLife Seychelles of the projects looks promising although the
mission believes that it could be larger than what is included in the proposal at this time.
The active involvement of the Ministry of Environment and in particular the Division of
Conservation would be anticipated, particularly since some of the proposed activities
have been high on the governments agenda for quite some time. The mission would like
to see a firm amount of support, in kind or, in other forms of support from MoE,
quantified in the final proposal sent to the World Bank. Without the partnership between
government and BirdLife Seychelles as well as other NGOs, parastatals and private
interests the implementation of the prepared action plans will be impossible. BirdLife
International's proven track record in this respect is an important factor in the missions
confidence that this project will succeed, but further commitments particularly. from the
Government would be extremely valuable.
Proiect Implementation Arrangements: The responsibility for administrative
management of the two medium sized grants will be with the EMPS Coordinator and the
Senior Project Accountant at the MFA who will form the GEF Project Unit (GEFPU).
Presently the EMPS coordinator is the GEF focal point in the Govermment and the main
coordinator of Bank related projects in Seychelles. Having successfully implemented
the Biodiversity Conservation GEF and the Environment and Transport Project over the
past years, it is the mission's belief that the EMPS coordinator with the assistance of the
Senior Project Accountant has the capacity to undertake administration of the proposed
new operations. The GEFPU will keep the record of all the accounts and disbursements.
It will be the focal point for all correspondence from the Bank to the recipient of the
Grant.
Financial Reporting: The mission has reviewed the financial reporting requirements
under the proposed grants and has agreed on the following arrangements with the
Government. The GEFPU will prepare separate quarterly reports for each of the new
operations, which it will submit to the Bank within a month after the end of each quarter.
The report will include (i) a progress report on the status of each component referring to
the indicators as defined in the project brief and their status, (ii) a Financial statement
4



50
which includes a summary of sources and uses of funds, the updated six months forecast,
the accounts reconciliation forecast and an expenditure by category statement. Where
applicable a summary of the status of contract signatures should be included. Samples of
the format for these reports have been submitted to the GEFPU.
Project Accounts: The mission has discussed the possibility of creating separate
accounts for each project at the Central Bank and to provide for the GEFPU to be
recognized as the owner of the account. Accordingly the GEFPU will also be signatory
to the accounts and will able to request statements on more timely basis. The mission has
received the Ministry of Finance's approval in principal and will await formal
confirmation of the above as part of the proposal pac]kage to be sent to the Bank.
Audits The Grant accounts will be audited by independent auditors on a semi-annual
basis. The audits will be financed by the Government as part of its contribution to project
implementation. The terms of reference of the audit, to be prepared by the GEFPU, will
be sent to the Bank for its review and comments.
The mission has been notified that the Bank is to receive a formal request from the
Government including:
(i)   two separate project briefs prepared by the GEFPU;
(ii)   a copy of the letter of with the Ministry of Finance on the
project account arrangement;
(iii)  confirmation of the administrative and financial management & reporting
arrangements as stated above;
(iv)  copies of memorandums of understanding between MFA and the various
project implementers (i.e. Ministry of Environment, SIF, Bird Life
Seychelles, Marine Conservation Society, and Marine Parks Authority).
II    GEF Implementation Completion Report
The Implementation Completion Report for the first GEF project done in Seychelles has
been drafted by a consultant together with the EMPS coordinator with input from the key
implementing agencies as well as the Bank mission. The draft has been accepted by the
grant recipient as reflecting the accomplishments under this project. The next step will be
a review of the ICR by the World Bank and the GEF CounciUSecretariat.
Overall the project has been rated very successful and the sustainability of most of the
components seems good. The Bank mission would, Ihowever, like to highlight a couple of
critical issues that remain to be addressed in the time before completion.
The first concern is the issues facing SIF and its capacity to manage project
implementation. For example, while the technical drafting of the long term management
plan for Aldabra was completed by external consultants within the time frame allocated
5



51
to it, its final editing, under the responsibility of the SIF, has taken much longer than
originally envisaged and the process has been far from transparent. It is unfortunate that
so little attention and effort has been devoted by the SIF Board to use this opportunity to
lay a proper foundation for the management of Aldabra. Recent discussions with key SIF
Board members do indicate that some progress can be made on these issues within the
next few weeks. If a proper management structure is not put in place the business as
usual will see most of the accomplishments under this project disappear within the next
few years. This would include the recovery of the feral goat population on Aldabra, the
deterioration of the largely unused research station on Aldabra and the resumption of bad
management practices including poaching and other illegal activities constantly
threatening Aldabra's fragile ecosystems.
Restoration Component: The preliminary findings of the tortoise census indicate that the
populations have seen a dramatic drop over the last 25 years. This could partly be
explained by the change of habitat caused by the goat population. A complete eradication
of the goats would need to be undertaken by SIF, probably using a low intensity hunting
effort. SIF needs to give a convincing explanation of how this will be accomplished.
Management Plan: A final version of the management plan should be a top priority for
the SIF board. The current draft materials available are technically sound enough to
permit competent members of the Board to complete this task. If no such members are to
be found on the Board, then the idea of expanding the Board to include competent and
forward looking persons from both the local private and public sectors should be strongly
considered. International institutions with an ability to provide relevant support to the
long-term management of Aldabra should be encouraged to participate in the Board.
Research Station: The completed research station is currently underused. The reasons for
this is primarily a poor marketing capacity by SIF linked with a rigid concept of what
kind of activities should be encouraged. It is also a reflection of the fact that the current
management structure lacks the ability to logistically accommodate the institutions that
do try to use the station. This needs to be addressed. Aldabra needs to be brought up to
speed with the capacity of a modem conservation organization.
m     Dutch Trust Fund
The Dutch trust fund is due to close on December 31, 1997. The mission agreed with the
Government on the need for a review of the performance of the projects funded under the
Grant has suggested that a completion report be prepared for it. The report can be
prepared along the lines of the Implementation Completion Report for the GEF and cover
the following topics: (i) Objectives, (ii) Achievements of the Objectives, (iii)
implementation issues and sustainability, (iv) Trustee and Recipient performance and
(v) Key lessons learnt.
As part of the supervision of the DTF, the mission visited Curieuse and Isle Coco as well
6



52
as Felicite. The following are the mission's observations of the implementation of the
components visited.
The Coco de mer plantation on Curieuse seems to have been partly successful with some
palms growing at about expected germination rates. The mission did, however, see
several completely submerged holes where the early phases of germinating nuts would
risk rotting. The previously used pre-germination, before planting on the slopes, should
be fully evaluated and the most beneficial system put in place.
The board walk through the mangroves seems to be in tact through continued
maintenance efforts. It is likely that much of the wood will need to be replaced over the
next few years. When this is done a more suitable local wood should be chosen.
The implementation of the Isle Coco Marine Park leaves much to be desired. The current
practice of leaving the rangers for 8 hours drifting in a small boat without possibility to
use the nearby island of Felicite needs to be changed. According to a pervious agreement
with the Minister of Environment a small building on Felicite should be renovated for the
use of the rangers. MPA should take immediate action to change this situation. The delay
in purchasing the boat is also due to insufficient project management capacity within the
Marine Park Authority. The installation of mooring buoys should have been done before
the park was opened to visitors. The park should also be zoned so that some of the more
sensitive areas are out of bounds for tourists. It might also be advisable to discourage the
presence of poor swimmers in the park, due to the shallow nature of the reef Immediate
steep finds should be imposed on anyone breaking the rules, including breaking of corals
and illegal fishing activities.
IV    Institutional Development Facility (E)F)
The Government of Seychelles has requested Bank's assistance in developing local
capacity in two main areas.
One area is the national preparedness for disaster relief While the country was able to
repair the main damages caused by the flood and respond to the more urgent needs
following the heavy rains in August, the incident has revealed the country's vulnerability
to natural disasters and its inability to deal with them in an efficient and urgent manner.
Responding to the Government's request to assist in setting-up of a control unit, the
mission met with the members of the Disaster Relief Committee which was set-up at the
onset of the August floods. The Committee's main concern is to ensure that the country
is well prepared in case a new disaster hits. In view of the continuous heavy rains since
August and exceptionally high tides the Committee felt in needs to prepare itself for any
disaster being landslides, more flooding, or serious damaged to infrastructure such as
roads and bridges.
The mission has agreed to consider an IDF request and submit it for the Bank's
consideration with the objective of developing the local capacity to prepare mitigation
7



53
plans and public awareness. The total amount of the IDF will have to be calculated based
on the cost of technical assistance and training required. The details of the proposal will
be developed by the office of the President with the assistance of the MFA.
Another area where the Bank's assistance is requested is to develop local capacity in
basic project design, administration and management. The MoE handling one of the
more diverse and demanding portfolios of the Government is most affected by the
inadequate human capacity. The I1)F request that is being prepared by the Government
will seek Bank assistance in developing the Ministry's capacity to prepare proposals and
manage them. It is suggested that the preparation of the Environment Management Plan
of Seychelles (EMPS) for the years 2000-2010, be not only one of the main outputs of
the IDF but also serve as case study for the staff that are being trained.
The mission has informed the Government that it will review and submit the two
proposals as soon as they are received by the Bank.
v     Environment and Transport Project
The mission met briefly with the Land Transport Division (LTD), and the Public Utility
Company (PUC) to discuss progress under the ongoing components of the project.
LTD  The two components under the implementation responsibility of LTD, namely the
rehabilitation of Praslin Roads and the Cascade footpath have not started, due to the
exceptionally high rainfalls and flooding since August. While the contractor is mobilized
and the works supervision contracts signed, the works cannot start until the rains stop.
The damage to the roads have been specially acute on Praslin where the roads are mostly
built at low levels above the sea. The drainage problems that had caused the original
failures on the resurfaced roads have intensified with the heavy rains and floods. In some
instances a whole section of the road had been immersed under the sea water for days.
The mission believes that the repairs should only start after the drainage problem on the
whole area close to the roads is resolved. This would include not only the road drainage
but also the farms and fields around them.
In view of the recent road failures tlhe LTD is beginning to consider changing the
specifications for the repairs to include concrete covering instead of asphalt. The LTD
will submit its proposal to the Bank. for its review and comments.
PUC The mission was informed that advertisement for the pipes has been made in the
local newspaper about the same time it was published in the Development Business. The
bids should come in by February 15'h. The bidding documents for filters and
chemidosers are also ready and the advertisement for them will be published shortly.
The mission was also notified about the damages caused by the floods on Praslin to the
electrical system of the pumping station on fonds B'Offay. This damages have now
been repaired.
8



54
The mission is conerned about the continuous delays in preparation of the PUC audit
reports and requests that the necessary measures be taken for the audit to be prepared as
soon as possible and before they result in the suspension of disbursements under the PUC
component.
For the World Bank
Mehrnaz T o
<4X.
November 20, 1997
9



]MAPECTI_



IBRD 23521R
46E15'                                                           46'20'                                                           46-25'                                                           46-30'
SEYCHELLES
GEF INVESTMENT: BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION
ALDABRA ISLAND                                                                                                                                     920
Poyonio                                              Tile Malobar    or    Middle Island
il. Piwcd
W.vl 1,o1od
RESEARCH                                                                                                                                                                                           II  0Cr
STATION  \
RkIOI                  Grande  Terre
or
R. E.poi
f, :.                                   S out Ih  Island              AlrmWip CCIr
01/                                                         so t R46o30hq
0~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ 5                                                                                                                                                              4 b   :    : '' ' i5'SO
Terre               or                                  r.                                 RESEARCH STATION                                   KENYA
T r   OTHER BUILDINGS                                    KENYA
TRACKS OR FOOTPATHS                                         N
MANGROVE SWAMPS                                            I
CHANNELS                                              0onbli                                                     LPI. 0
SHALLOW AREAS WITHIN LAGOON           9                                                  SEYCHELLES
TANZANIA                                        Alo- ..
--- iNTERNATiONAL BOUNDARIES
S      1      2       3      4       5      6      7          WKLOMETERS                             AIdobra I..   c ,"
O  i  i     iS4                    5 MILES                                  '8U,.mp""1    4 a.0.5 1.MILES
COMOROS       IE.I
ek., bo,,  .'oopth dno m"of ,ooIK 00 A. oft 7h. VWord Boo'ksolrr
; m   n' Iodgo..of =nr_ 4.0 M zooI .10 ofrl oop o,0*o,  or 00,'     MOZAMBIQUE
46e15'                                                           46520'                                                           46-25'                                               MADAGASCAR
NOVEMBER 1



IBRD 23522R
S E Y C  H E L L E S
GEF INVESTMENT:
ABATEMENT OF MARINE POLLUTION
. 0 F    '^VICTORIA FISHING AND COMMERCIAL PORTS
*       PROPOSED LOCATION OF PROJECT
COMPONENTS
.  CM    PORT FACILITIES
I  _______  ROADS
DREDGED AREAS
CORAL REEFS
ISOBATHS IN METERS
MER  TURNING~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIR
, sAS N o rmBASI
\ \\ X IH A R                                                                                              0                  M ETER S I      0 5   --
IIEII RIIE~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*RdI
\  /- *S_EY C:A ' HELLES S, ;'
I-r~~~                                                                                                      
\ / --ARBO                                       F'd UURTIO
NOVERWTOI 1994



