Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11259-SEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES
ENVIRONMENT AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
DECEMBER 2, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency                              Seychelles Rupee (SR)
Exchange Rate                         Sl.00 = SR 5.0
$0.20   SR I
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                US/UK
I ha                                 2.47 acres
I km                                 0.62 miles
I mm                                 0.039 inch
I km2                                0.386 square mile
I kg                                 2.2 pounds
I metric ton                         2,205 pounds
I m'                                  1.307 cubic yards
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFTC                        Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation (UK)
CITES                       Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species
CODEVAR                     Artisan Development Cooperative
DCA                         Directorate of Civil Aviation
DOE                         Department of Environment
DOI                         Department of Industry
EC                          European Community
EEZ                         Exclusive Economic Zone
EMPS                        Environmental Management Plan of Seychelles
GEF                         Global Environment Facility
GET                         Global Environment Trust Fund
ICBP                        International Council for Bird Preservation
IDC                         Islands Development Company
IERR                        Internal Economic Rate of Return
IMO                         International Maritime Organization
IUCN                        International Union for the Conservation of Nature
lcd                         Liters per capita per day
LTD                         Land Transport Division
MARPOL                      International Convention for the Prevention of Marine
Pollution from Ships
MEPER                       Ministry of Environment, Economic Planning, and External
Relations
MTOW                        Maximum take-off weight
MTT                         Ministry of Transport and Tourism
NDP                         National Development Plan
ORSTOM                      Organisation des recherches scientifiques et techniques
d'Outre-mer (France)
PIP                         Public Investment Program
PMSD                        Ports and Marine Services Division, Ministry of Tourism and
Transport
PUC                         Public Utilities Corporation
RSNC                        Royal Society for Nature Conservation
SFA                         Seychelles Fishing Authority
SIF                         Seychelles Island Foundation
SPPF                        Seychelles People's Progressive Front
SPTC                        Seychelles Public Transport Corporation
TRL                         Transport Research Laborarory (UK)
TRRL                        Transport and Road Research Laboratory
ULC                         Union Lighterage Corporation, Ltd
UNDP                        United Nations Development Program
UNDTCD                      United Nations Depanment for Technical Cooperation and
Development
UNEP                        United Nations Environment Program
GOVERNMENT OF SEYCHELLES FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



SEYCHELLES                         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ENVIRONMENT AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .                 ................................   i
I. COUNTRY AND SECTOR SETTING .........                      ....................   1
A. Tourism, Environment, and the Economy  ..........1............ 
B. Environmental Preservation: Strategies and
Practice .....................................  2
Strategies .....................................  2
Policies and Institutions . ...............................   3
C. The Transport Sector ...................................    5
Roads and Road Safety . ...............................    5
Marine Transport ...................................    6
Aviation .....................................  6
D. Previous Bank Experience and Current Strategy ........... .                    7
II. THE PROJECT ..........................................    8
A. Project Origin and Concept . ...............................   8
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement . .............................   8
C. Project Objectives and Description ..........        .................   9
D. Cost Estimates  ....................................                          12
E. Financing Plan  ....................................                          13
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited
Seychelles in July 1992, and which comprised Messrs. 0. Grimes (economist and mission
leader), A. Zohore (financial analyst), F. Cardy (environmental specialist), C.G. Lundin
(ecologist), and L. Rasmusson (sanitary engineer). Messrs. B. Bostrom (transport economist) and
M. Audige (port engineer) helped to prepare the transport and marine pollution abatement
components respectively. Ms. A Kiss (environmental officer) advised on the content and progress
of the GEF program. Messrs. J. Post and R. Tillman were the peer reviewers for the project.
Assistance with report production was provided by Mmes. C. Kok Shun, G. Chartier, N. Ford,
and N. Wong. Messrs. M. Blanc and F. Aguirre-Sacasa are the managing Division Chief and
Department Director respectively for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Em
IH.  IMPLEMENTATION    ......................................    16
A. The EMPS and its Implementation  ...........................   16
B. Project Implementation Arrangements  .........................   16
Resource Management Program    ..........................   16
Biodiversity Conservation and Marine Pollution Abatement Program    ...   17
Transport Program    ..................................    18
C. Procurement .........................................  18
D.  Disbursements   .......................................   21
E.  Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing   ...................   22
F. Training   .            ..........................................   22
G.  Supervision   .........................................    23
H.  Monitoring and Evaluation  ................................   23
IV. FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS   ....................................   25
A. Budget and Expenditures for Enviromment  ......................   25
B. PUC (Praslin/La Digue) Financial Performance
and Prospects ......................................    27
C.  Road Sector Financing and Road User Charges  ...................   28
D. Pricing and Financing of Praslin Airport Services ..................   29
V. PROJECT  JUSTIFICATION  AND  RISKS   .........................   30
A.  Project Benefits .......................................   30
B.  Internal Economic Rate of Return ............................   30
C.  Environmental Aspects  ..................................   31
D.  Impact on Poverty Groups  ................................    32
E.  Risks and Safeguards   ...................................    32
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....                                                     .......... 33
ANNEXES
Annex  1: EMPS: Progress on Implementation  ...........................   35
Annex  2: EMPS: Establishment of National Coordinator  ....................   52
Annex  3: Restoration and Preservation of the Aldabra Ecosystem   ...............   55
Annex  4: Turtle Protection Program   .................................   59
Annex  5: Reception and Disposal of Marine Wastes at the Port of Victoria  ....                           .....   63
Annex  6: Praslin Improvement Program    ..............................   66
Annex  7: Detailed Cost Estimates   ..................................   72
Annex  8: Organization Chart of Environment Division   .....................   86
Annex  9: Organization Chart of Directorate of Civil Aviation  .................   87
Annex 10: Organization Chart of Public Utilities Corporation  ..................   88
Annex I1: Organization Chart of Land Transport Division ....................   89
Annex 12: Road Safety   .........................................    90
Annex 13: Air Seychelles: Financial Performance    ........................   93
Annex 14: Schedule of Estimated Disbursements ..........................   94



Annex 15: Implementation Schedule and Supervision Plan ....................  95
Annex 16: Progress Reporting and Key Indicators .........................  99
Annex 17: Economic Analysis ....................................   104
Annex 18: Financial Analysis and Projections  ..........................   105
Annex 19: Selected Documents and Data available in the Project File  ....          .......  108
Tables
Table 2.1: Project Cost Estimates ...................................  14
Table 2.2: Summary Financing Plan  .................................   15
Table 3.1: Procurement Arrangements ................................  20
Table 3.2: Disbursement Arrangements  ...............................  21
Table 4. 1: Division of Environment: Budgets Requested and Approved ....            ........  25
Table 4.2: Seychelles Island Foundation: Financial Summary ..................  26
IBRD 23524: Praslin Improvement Program
IBRD 23521: GEF Investment: Biodiversity Protection
IBRD 23522: GEF Investment: Abatement of Marine Pollution






i
SEYCHELLES
ENVIRONMENT AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Republic of Seychelles
Beneficiaries:-L           Ministry of Environment, Economic Planning, and External
Relations (MEPER); Seychelles Island Foundation (SIF); Land
Transport Division (LTD); Public Utilities Corporation
(PUC); Directorate of Civil Aviation (DCA); Ports and
Marine Services Division (PMSD); Seychelles Fishing
Authority (SFA)
Amount:                    US$ 4.5 million
Cofinancing from Global Environment Trust Fund grant of
SDR (1.25 million) (US$1.8 million).
Tenns:                     Standard variable interest rate and maturity of 15 years,
including a grace period of 5 years.
On-lending Terms:          Interest rate of 8 percent for 13 years, including 3 years of
grace.
Co-Financing:              Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) Grant
PrQjQ OjQectives:          The objectives are to:
a. Assist with implementation of the Environmental
Management Plan of Seychelles (EMPS);
b. Support environmental programs in resource management,
biodiversity conservation, and marine pollution control; and
c. Improve the basis for sustained tourism growth by
facilitating tourist access, while preserving or restoring
environmentally sensitive areas.
Prject DescLiipin:         The project consists of actions in three programs: resource
management, biodiversity conservation and abatement of
marine pollution, and transport.
Resource Management
* water supply on Praslin island



ii
* water resources study and preparation of water
management plans for outer islands
* preparation of management plans for marine resources
* organizational study of Division of Environment
Biodiversity Conservation and Marine Pollution Abatement
* restoration and preservation of the ecosystem of Aldabra
atoll
* protection of endangered sea turtles
* study of waste reception facilities at the Port of Victoria
Transpo
* road rehabilitation on Praslin island
* airport improvements on Praslin island
* action plan for road traffic safety
Benefits:                  The project would support the implementation of a
comprehensive national environmental action plan in
Seychelles. It would provide more dependable basic
infrastructure on Praslin island, which will be a spur to
realization of the potential of the island for nature tourism.
The biodiversity and marine pollution programs would benefit
the international community by addressing issues of global
concern.
Risks:                     The main risk is that of delays in implementation due to the
scarcity of trained staff. Short-term technical advisers to
provide specialized inputs, careful monitoring, and training are
designed to minimize this risk.
Proiect Cost:               The total cost is estimated at US$7 million equivalent, with
US$5 million (72 percent) in foreign exchange. Detailed cost
estimates in December 1992 prices are shown in the following
table:



iii
PROJECT COS ESrDUATES
Local      Foreign                     Local    Forc4in                  % Forcin      . of
Currencv    Exhte           Total      Cwrncy   Exchange         Total      Ewarteg   Total
------- SR000 ----------                   ---USS'000 ---------
L ENVlRONMENT
A. ResoulMe M g        t Pr0m
1. Prslin Water Supply, Phase I              5303          193.5       723A          106.1       38.7       144.             27        2
2. Water Resources Study and Mangement
Plans for Outer Islands                    956.        3,841.0      4,797.0       191.2       768.2       959.4            80       14
3. Marin Resource Management Plans            401.0      2575.0       2,976.0          0.2      515.0       595.2            82        S
4. Orpnizational Study of Division of
Enviromnment                               117.0        275.0        392.0         23.4        55.0        78.4           70        1
Sub-total                                2,0043       6,8t4.5      8,tSS          400.9     1,376.9     1,777.S           77       25
B. Bidriwsity Commtica md Marine
Poluiom Abateat Progrm  (GEP)
1. Restoration and Preservation of Aldabra
Ecosystem                                  397.0      2,576.0      2,973.0         79.4       515.2      594.6            87        8
2. Protection of Sea Turtles                3,029.0      2,284.       5,313.0        605.8      456.8      1,062.6           43       15
3. Waste Recqition Facilities (MARPOL) Study  77.0        688.0        765.0         15.4       137.6       153.0            90        3
3.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w _ Waste_ Reepio P_iik                    _.RP   _____.    ------    ------           -------   ____
- - -- --     -     -
Sub-total                                3,503D       5,548.0      9,051.0        700.6     1,109.6     1,810.2           61       26
EL TRANSPORT
A. Praslin Road ImprovementProgam           2,9383       7,037.7      9,976.0        587.7     1,407.5     1,9952            71       28
B. Prslin Airport improvements                253D0      1,1833       1,4363          50.6      236.7       2873             82        4
C. RoadTrmfficSafetyProgmm                    422.0      1,792.0      2214.0          84.4      358.4       442.8             1        7
Sub-total                                 3,6133      10.013.0     13,6263         722.7     2,002.6    2,7253             73       39
TOTAL BASE COST                                 9,120.6     22.445.      31,566.1      1,824.2     4,489.1     6,3133            71       90
Physical Contingencies                            469.7      1,463.4      1,933.1         93.9      292.7       386.6            76        6
Prce Contingencies                               392.7       1,136.5      1,529.2         78.5      2273        305.             74        4
OT-P-c----- ______    -----            -      -   -_ ___.    7,00-.               72--    1_
TOTAL PROJECrT cosr                             3.3A        25,045.4    35,M.4         119% J     5,0091      7,0.1.             72      100



iv
F1andng Plan
(USS mlllon)
Local               FomeiRn          Total
IBRD Loan            0.7                 3.8              4.5
GET Grant            0.6                 1.2              1.8
Govenmuent           0.7                   -              0.7
TOTAL                2.0                 5.0              7.0
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY93         FY94         FY95          FY96         FY97         Tol
Annual
IBRD Loan                 0.8           1.9          1.1          0.5           0.2          4.5
GET Grnit                 0.3          0.7           0.6          0.2            -           1.8
Govemment                 0.1           0.2          0.2          0.1           0.1          0.7
Total                      1.2          2.8          1.9          0.8           0.3          7.0
Cumulative
IBRD Loan                 0.8           2.7          3.8          4.3           4.5          4.5
GET Grant                 0.3           1.0          1.6          1.8           1.8          1.8
Government                0.1           0.3          0.5          0.6           0.7          0.7
Total                      1.2          4.0          5.9          6.7           7.0          7.0
Economic Rate of Return:               About 22 percent for 38 percent of project costs.
Staff Appraisal Report:                 Seychelles, Environment and Transport Project
(Report No. 11259-SEY)
kw:                                     IBRD Nos. 23521, 23522, and 23524.



I. COUNTRY AND SECTOR SETrING
A. TOURISM, ENVIRONMENT, AND THE ECONOMY
1.1          Seychelles, a group of 115 granite and coral islands in the western Indian Ocean,
well illustrates both the potential and the vulnerability of small island economies. The natural
beauty and narrow resource base has led to a heavy emphasis on tourism and fisheries, without
much additional scope for diversification of production and export. Its geographic isolation,
combined with the distances between islands (the most remote is 1,200 km from the main island
of Mahe), make transport critically important to an economy whose zone of influence extends
over nearly 1.4 million sq km of ocean. The population of 70,000 is growing at 1 percent per
year. Nearly 90 percent of the population lives on Mahe, and an additional 10 percent live on
Praslin and La Digue, two neighboring islands of growing importance as tourist destinations and
sources of local growth.
1.2       Throughout the 1980s, the public administration was by and large effective at coping
with swings caused by downturns in tourist arrivals and other external events, using imported and
domestic savings efficiently, and carrying out generally prudent fiscal policies. Wage restraints
and price controls on essential consumer goods kept the annual rate of inflation from 1986-91 at
about 2 percent. As tourism arrivals were rising steadily, to a peak of 104,000 in 1990, real
GDP grew at about 5.4 percent during 1986-1990. However, the after-effects on tourism of the
Gulf war are still being felt, as well as the global economic slowdown, and the number of arrivals
in 1992 is not likely to match the 1990 figure. The government is monitoring these developments
closely, and it is determined to take the necessary corrective measures to contain any fiscal or
balance of payments slippages. It has also embarked on the preparation of a three-year public
investment program, with the objective of improving the management of public investments and
preserving the country's external creditworthiness.
1.3       The positive economic performance, resulting in a per capita GNP of US$5,160 in
1991, has made it possible to improve social and living standards. Life expectancy of 70 years,
infant mortality of 17.1 per thousand, and a literacy rate of nearly 100 percent compare favorably
with the indicators of many higher-income countries. A consensus however is emerging that,
even though an interventionist approach in social sectors has yielded visible benefits, its
application elsewhere in the economy has discouraged investment, distorted labor incentives, and
led to the government taking on tasks that could have been better left to private initiative.
1.4       The extent to which the private sector can claim a greater stake in development will
depend heavily on the outcome of political liberalization.  The transition to multi-party
democracy, announced in December 1991 and scheduled to lead to presidential and legislative
elections by early 1993, has been accompanied by the relaxation of price and import controls and
by measures to promote private investment. The ruling Seychelles People's Progressive Front
(SPPF) party obtained a 58% majority in elections held in July 1992 to name the commissioners
who will draft a new constitution. The opposition party, under a former president of the country
who spent 15 years in exile prior to his return in 1992, did not seriously contest its 33% of the
July 1992 vote, and appears to be settling into a role of loyal opposition. Continued political
stability is essential if the country is to achieve its stated goals of sustainable development with
preservation of its pristine but vulnerable environment.



2
B. ENVIRONMENTAL PRESERVATION: STRATEGIES AND PRACTICE
Strategies
1.5       As a series of small island ecosystems, Seychelles has long been conscious of the
need to manage its resource endowment on a sustainable basis. The two main sources of growth,
tourism and exploitation of marine resources, both depend for their well-being on a healthy
environment. The government strategic objective of sustainable development therefore calls for
public and private investment to be fully consistent with the environmental objectives of:
(a)      protection of unique or endangered species and ecosystems;
(b)      development of health and environmental quality standards for air, water,
noise, and marine pollution, effective disposal of solid wastes and
sewage, and worker health and safety;
(c)      sustainable use of renewable resources and efficient use of non-renewable
resources and ecosystems;
(d)      mandating of environmental impact analysis for major development
projects;
(e)      improvements in public information and training programs on the
linkages between environment and development; and
(f)      expansion of participation in regional and international organizations
dealing with the environment.
1.6       To achieve these goals, environmental and resource management issues have been
integrated into the current development plan (National Development Plan, NDP 1990-94). The
projects and portions of projects in the NDP focused on the environment were expanded and
brought together during 1990-91 in a National Environmental Action Plan called the
Environmental Management Plan for Seychelles (EMPS). The EMPS thus became a more detailed
and operational extension of the NDP.
1.7       The EMPS, consisting of 52 projects in 10 programs, has advanced to the
implementation stage. In February 1991 it was presented to donors at a meeting co-sponsored
by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), the United Nations Environment Program
(UNEP), and the Bank. Donor commitments to EMPS programs include the European
Community (EC) (coastal zone management), UNDP (information, training, and monitoring),
French aid (FAC) (environmental assessment guidelines), the Commonwealth Fund for Technical
Cooperation (CFTC) (offshore oil drilling control program), the African Development Bank
(AfDB) (waste management), and the Netherlands (coastal zone management, biodiversity, and
institutional support) (see also para. 2.15). EMPS projects are being carried out by a wide range
of public and private groups. A detailed description of the EMPS and implementation issues
associated with it is contained in Annex 1.
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -     ---------



3
Policies and Institutions
1.8        Efforts to protect vulnerable areas and species began over 200 years ago in 1778,
only eight years after the islands were first settled. The French commandant of that era tried to
limit the taking of crocodiles, giant tortoises, and other species. These efforts did not succeed:
sea cows, the Seychelles race of giant tortoises (as opposed to the Aldabra variety), and several
birds, as well as the crocodiles, have all disappeared. Over the years since that time, many reef.i
have been mined for coral to use in construction, islands have been cratered as guano was
extracted, and mangrove forests drained. Introduced plants outcompeted much of the native
vegetation, which was also destroyed by fire, absent from the islands as long as they were
uninhabited.
1.9        Real conservation can be said to have begun in the late 1960s, with the creation of
the National Parks and Nature Conservancy Commission (later the Seychelles National
Environment Commission) and the conferring of full responsibility for the management and
preservation of Cousin island to the International Council for Bird Preservation (ICBP).
Regulations issued in 1971 under the National Parks and Nature Conservancy Act provided the
basis for the network of national parks and preserves which now amounts to 42% of the land area
of the country and about 27,000 ha of surrounding seas and reefs. Other specific legislation
protects land birds, sea birds and their eggs, marine turtles, shells, marine mammals, at least 25
species of trees, and giant tortoises. Following the Cousin island example, Aride island has been
managed since 1973 by the Royal Society for Nature Conservation (RSNC). Seychelles has also
played a major role in international conservation, especially in securing approval from the
International Whaling Commission for an Indian Ocean Sanctuary for whales, and in launching
the proposal for what is now the UNDP Convention for the Protection, Management, and
Development of the Marine and Coastal Environment of the Eastern Africa Region.
1.10       Seychelles Island Foundation (SIF). In 1979 SIF, a charitable trust, was established
to manage and conduct scientific research on Aldabra, the world's largest coral atoll and a largely
undisturbed environment for terrestrial and marine life. SIF is formally in the Office of the
President, but its operations are strongly influenced by the Ministry of Environment, Economic
Planning, and External Relations (MEPER). The Foundation is administered by a Board of
Trustees which includes representatives from the government and from sponsoring international
organizations including the Smithsonian Institution (USA), the Royal Society (UK), the
International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), and ORSTOM (France). The Board
meets annually in Mahe, while a local executive group of the Board meets once a month to
handle current matters. In addition to Aldabra, SIF since 1989 has been entrusted with
management of the Vallee de Mai national park on Praslin island. Both Aldabra and the Vall6e
de Mai have been designated as World Heritage Sites.
1.11       As the responsibilities of SIF expand, its management will require strengthening.
In particular, a more permanent leadership structure is needed for handling of funds,
administration, support to scientific personnel, and the monitoring of field activities.
1.12       Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA). SFA , under the supervision of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Fisheries, is responsible for management, policy, and research on fisheries
management issues. Its program includes studies on fishing practices and the establishment of
quotas to maintain sustainable yields for tuna, sea turtles, lobsters, and artisanal fisheries. SFA
handles licensing of tuna fishing by foreign fleets and assists with monitoring and enforcement
of existing regulations. Despite an SFA ban, however, sea turtles continue to be caught for their



4
value in consumption or in the market. The management of marine resources has moreover been
hampered by poor planning and lack of knowledge of the numbers and location of marine species
such as lobsters (whose stocks are apparently rising again after a near complete depletion).
1.13      Ports and Marine Services Division (PMSD). Operations at the Port of Victoria are
the responsibility of PMSD, a division of the Ministry of Tourism and Transport. The port
benefited from support under the IBRD-assisted Transport Project (Ln. 2492-SEY), approved in
1986, and generally operates effectively.  PMSD has been instrumental in establishing a
contingency plan for possible oil spills from passing tankers. Lacking waste reception facilities
at the port itself, however, PMSD has found it difficult to contain the pollution of port and
surrounding waters with bilge waste, oily wastes, and garbage from the fishing and commercial
fleets as well as cruise ships.  Actions to reduce this type of ship-generated pollution of the sea
are essential for preservation of the marine environment.
1.14      Public Utilities Corporation (PUC). PUC, the product of a merger in 1986 of the
Seychelles Electricity Corporation and the Seychelles Water Authority, provides water,
electricity, sewerage services, solid waste disposal, and production of bottled water. It is a public
enterprise, 100 percent owned by the government, and is supervised by MEPER for water and
sewerage and by the Department of Energy for electricity. Water connections managed by PUC
total about 12,500 on Mahe, Praslin, and La Digue. A Finance and Administration division
serves both the water and electricity divisions.
1.15      Seychelles has very low capacity for retention of groundwater. PUC must therefore
exploit surface water sources and install extensive distribution networks to serve the scattered
localities of Mahe, Praslin, and La Digue. Growing scarcities of water are evident on both Mahe
and Praslin. Whereas Mahe has storage capacity from two reservoirs, Praslin relies on run-of-
the-stream sources whose flows decline drastically during dry months. Since 1991 PUC has been
carrying out a four-part improvement program designed to address its most critical organizational
and financial needs. This program has thus far mainly affected Mahe operations, but PUC plans
to introduce parts of it to Praslin/La Digue at a time when reliable yields can simultaneously be
increased.
1.16      Division of Environment. MEPER. Although the mandate of each of the above
agencies has been generally well understood, inadequate communication and the absence of clear
lines of responsibility have often hampered collaboration among agencies responsible for
protection of the environment. In response to these concerns, a Department of Environment
(DOE) was established in the Office of the President in June 1989. DOE has been the main
instrument for the attainment of national environmental objectives. DOE and its three sections
(Forestry, Conservation and National Parks, and Environmental Assessment and Inspection) were
integrated in May 1992 as the Environment Division within MEPER. This should strengthen the
coordination between environment and development planning.  It should also give the
Environment Division added authority in securing budgets for environment, and in requiring
environmental impact assessments for all major development projects. The Environment Division
plays a major role in the Environment Steering Committee, a multi-agency advisory body chaired
by the Minister of MEPER. Budgetary allocations in 1990 and 1991 were adequate to finance the
operational budget of DOE, but care will need to be taken that future budgetary provisions fully
meet the increased demands of implementation of the EMPS (see also para. 1.7 and Annex 1).
It is also uncertain whether the organizational structure of the Environment Division will allow
it to discharge its responsibilities effectively.



5
C. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.17       Seychelles as an island nation has long recognized the importance of effective
transport links, both with trading partners and between islands. The deep-water port at Victoria,
the capital, processed 545,000 tons of freight imports and exports in 1989, including 223,000
tons of fish transshipment. An active inter-island cargo trade is handled by more than 50
schooners, a government cargo vessel, and hundreds of small boats. Air Seychelles, the national
carrier also responsible for ground handling and air cargo management, has 7 aircraft including
a B-767 in its fleet and serves the main islands of Mahe and Praslin as well as 8 outer islands.
About 6,000 vehicles, most located on Mahe, use a network of 240 km of main roads, of which
200 km are paved, and an extensive network of secondary roads and tracks. Since the 1980s
planned transport investments have accounted for 35-40 percent of public investment. The main
objectives for the sector are to (i) improve and maintain the road network and promote road
safety; (ii) upgrade airfields on Prasl in, Mahe, and outlying islands and improve access to foreign
tourist markets; and (iii) improve the ability of port and marine authorities to transport cargo
between islands, control pollution, and respond to emergencies.
Roads and Road Safety
1.18      Under the 1985-89 National Development Plan (NDP), a program to rehabilitate the
main roads of Mahe was carried out, with assistance from the Bank (Ln. 2492-SEY). With the
completion of this program in 1991, periodic and routine maintenance, costing about SR 4.5
million (US$ 900,000) annually, can be carried out on the main road network of Mahe without
recourse to external aid. Some resources in this program were also devoted to roads on Praslin.
There is a need, however, to upgrade other segments of the main road network on Praslin so as
to achieve a similar result.
1.19      The number of registered vehicles has increased by 55 percent over the past 15
years, but there has been an even greater increase in the number of road accidents. The steep
terrain, rainstorms, and congestion in built-areas are all causes of the high accident rate. The
relatively modest standards adopted for main roads, most of which are narrow with no shoulders
or pedestrian walkways, is another important factor. The main cause of accidents, however, is
negligent driving, especially drunk driving. Traffic management measures to reduce congestion
are being combined with a road safety campaign begun in May 1992 to improve awareness of
safety concerns and reduce negligent driving.
1.20      Land Transport Division (LTD). The overall responsibility for land transport lies
with the Land Transport Division (LTD) of the Ministry of Tourism and Transport. LTD
successfully carried out the road rehabilitation program of the late 1980s (see para. 1.18), and
chairs the newly-created Road Traffic Safety Commission. Before 1983 roads were maintained
by force account labor brigades and by a construction parastatal. Since that time, LTD has opted
for encouragement of private contractors in road maintenance.
1.21       Seychelles Public Transport Corporation (SPTC). The public bus company SPTC,
established in 1977, links small and isolated rural communities on Mahe and Praslin with
employment centers. A high percentage both of the working population and of students uses
public transport. Fares are low, with the result that SPTC depends on government for its capital



6
expenditure as well as about half of its operating budget. Its maintenance and repair facilities
function effectively, however, and the bus fleet is generally in good working order.
Marine Transport
1.22       The Ports and Marine Services Division (PMSD) (see also para. 1.13) is responsible
for the operation and maintenance of the Port of Victoria, as well as for all other Seychelles ports
and harbors, navigation aids, licensing of vessels, and pilotage. Stevedoring and dry cargo
handling is the responsibility of a parastatal, the Union Lighterage Company (ULC). Import
volume in 1989 totalled 313,000 tons, while exports amounted to 9,000 tons. Imports increased
by one-third during the late 1980s, and tonnage of fish transshipment has also shown significant
growth, from 130,000 tons in 1985 to 223,000 tons in 1989. Currently, PMSD is engaged in
several projects designed to upgrade equipment and buildings at the commercial and fishing ports,
identify appropriate facilities for reception of marine wastes, and extend and realign the jetty at
Baie Ste. Anne, the main transshipment point of Praslin. The Port of Victoria is a commercially
viable entity whose operations, especially for containerized cargo and petroleum products, were
improved under the Bank-assisted Transport Project (Ln. 2492-SEY).
Aviation
1.23       Tourism as the  major source of foreign exchange earnings became a tangible
prospect in 1971, with completion of the international airport at Pointe Larue, on Mahe. Since
virtually all tourists wish to visit at least one other island, Praslin is served by a runway, surfaced
in June 1988, capable of accommodating 20-passenger aircraft. During 1985-89, airfields were
constructed on the outer islands of Alphonse, Coetivy, Desroches, Farquhar, and Marie-Louise.
More recently, an airstrip was completed on Assomption island, making the formerly remote
nature preserve of Aldabra much more accessible to visitors.
1.24       The Directorate of Civil Aviation (DCA) is responsible for the country's civil air
transportation system, as both provider of airport services and regulatory body. DCA is trying
to come to grips with the growth of air traffic on both Mahe and Praslin, which is straining the
existing facilities. Expansion and upgrading of the international airport is currently under
consideration. For Praslin, whose airport operations now average about 1,000 landings and
takeoffs per month, upgrading of the runway and enlargement of the small parking area are
required in order to meet the needs of current arriving passengers and to accommodate growth.
DCA is well managed from the technical point of view. There is however a need to improve the
financial information available to the management of DCA in order to properly account for and
allocate revenues and expenditures as they relate to individual airports.
1.25       Air Seychelles, the national carrier, increased revenues by 57 percent in 1990. The
sharp increase stemmed largely from the acquisition through leasing of a B-767 aircraft in August
1989 to cater for the European and Far East markets. The airline's European routes are roughly
breaking even, although the Singapore route is so far a heavy loser. Domestic operations and
airport services are making a profit. In addition to the B-767, 2 BN2 Islanders and 4 DH-6 Twin
Otters comprise the Air Seychelles fleet. There are at present no aircraft in the 30-35 passenger
range, such as the DASH-8 or F-27. This places a limit on development of the outer islands,
most of which are beyond the range of the Twin Otters, and to some extent of Praslin, where the
runway cannot now accommodate heavier aircraft. Traffic rights have been granted to 5 foreign
airlines, and commercial agreements have been recently concluded or are in progress with



7
seasonal carriers providing service on contract with tour operators. Operating losses of Air
Seychelles amounted to SR 66.2 million (US$ 13.2 million) in 1989. In 1990, these losses had
declined to SR 4.4 million, and the provisional 1991 results for the first time show an operating
profit (of SR 24.1 million, or US$4.8 million). The financial performance of Air Seychelles
from 1989 to 1991 is given in Annex 13.
1.26      DCA has launched two master planning exercises, one for the international airport
and the other for the outer islands. The contract for the international airport master plan was
awarded in May 1992, and the study should take about 9 months to complete. The first phase
of works is expected to consist of the rearrangement and extension of the existing passenger
terminal building, construction of an office building, and related road and utilities works. This
study would include traffic forecasts up to the year 2015 for both the Seychelles (Mahe) and
Praslin airports. Although focused primarily on Mahe, the master plan is therefore also expected
to provide advice on the long-term development of air service to Praslin. The second master
plan, supported by the Government of India, will establish the long-term airfield, navigation, and
equipment requirements of 6 outer islands in relation to planned tourism development: Alphonse,
Assomption, Coetivy, Desroches, Farquhar, and Platte.
D. PREVIOUS BANK EXPERIENCE AND CURRENT STRATEGY
1.27      The Bank's country assistance strategy supports the focus of national priorities on
tourism and diversification toward services, particularly in shipping, with careful management
of Seychelles' main asset, its environment. Since joining the Bank in 1980, Seychelles has
received one loan in 1986 for port improvements and road rehabilitation (Ln. 2492-SEY, US$6.2
million). Since 1988 the collaboration has covered a broader range of sectors and topics,
including water supply, environment, housing, and macroeconomic planning. The present project
focuses on resource management, biodiversity protection, and control of marine pollution in
addition to land and air transport. The Bank has also assisted since 1990 with preparation of the
Mahe Integrated Water Supply program, a large investment in new source development,
treatment, and distribution of water throughout the island of Mahe. Its preparation includes an
evaluation of the economic and financial impacts of the water supply program, in the context of
a multi-year Public Investment Program (PIP). Bank assistance in the preparation of the PIP, the
first one for the country, has been requested. A sector study of housing and land management,
carried out in late 1991, has recommended several measures designed to improve the supply of
affordable housing and the availability of land for housing construction. IFC in 1992 approved
US$ 6.3 million in loan and syndications for the refurbishing of the Paradise Hotel on Praslin
island. An earlier IFC project, now closed, was also in the tourism sector.
1.28      Implementation of the Transport Project was well managed, and the project was
successfully completed in 1991. The design of the proposed project takes account of this
experience through the provision of periodic inputs of technical specialists, rather than long-term
advisers, and through sustained follow-up of the programs through their completion.



8
II. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT ORIGIN AND CONCEPT
2.1        Support for environment programs under the proposed project was an outgrowth of
Bank involvement in the preparation of the EMPS. During this period, as a Seychelles team of
staff and consultants prepared the EMPS, the Bank's advice was sought on specific topics, such
as protection of sea turtles and waste management. Together with other donors, the Bank
analyzed the EMPS at the donors' meeting in February 1991 and indicated its priorities for
support. Of the EMPS programs, actions to protect biodiversity and to limit the pollution of the
international waters around Seychelles were identified as the most supportive of the goals of the
Global Environment Facility (GEF).
2.2        While the environment actions supported by the GEF were identified chiefly for their
global benefits, those to be financed by the proposed Bank loan are mainly characterized by
strong linkages with development objectives and by internal consistency. The geographic focus
on Praslin will enhance the mutual benefits from investments occurring simultaneously in several
sectors. The priority given to water resources during preparation of the forthcoming Mahe
Integrated Water Supply project is continued, both in the investments on Praslin and in the study
of water resource management in the outer islands. The Praslin road improvement program
extends the focus on road maintenance and rehabilitation begun under the Transport Project.
2.3        The intended beneficiaries participated in project design and preparation in several
specific ways. Turtle shell artisans gave their views on the approach taken in the Hawksbill turtle
management program to facilitate their re-absorption into the labor force in another occupation.
The scientific and research community familiar with Aldabra has been closely involved with the
proposals for restoration and preservation of Aldabra's ecosystem. Finally, the newly elected
district representatives on Praslin discussed the road improvement program with their constituents
and advised on priorities and content.
B. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.4        Consistent with the strategy of sustainable development, the Bank seeks to promote
the types of growth that will improve, rather than detract from, the chances of realizing
environmental preservation in deeds as well as words. The encouragement of nature tourism on
Prasl in, with appropriate supporting infrastructure, meets this criterion and constitutes one of the
chief reasons for Bank support of this project. Another reason is the priority attached to moving
National Environmental Action Plans through to the implementation stage.  As EMPS
implementation issues crop up over the decade of the 1990s, the Bank experience that will be
brought to bear is not only in environment (which is already considerable), but also in capacity
building, management with scarce resources, and organization.
2.5        To maximize its policy impact, the Bank is also continuing its involvement with key
sectors of the economy. Transport improvements on Praslin, combined with those already
achieved on Mahe, are expected to place LTD on a firm footing, capable of ensuring the
preservation of the investments made. Participation in water resource actions on Praslin and on



9
the outer islands puts into practice the assistance with policy implementation in the water sector
that began two years ago with preparation of the Mahe Integrated Water Supply program.
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
2.6        The proposed project is designed to improve the basis for sustained tourism growth,
while preserving or restoring environmentally sensitive areas. Tourist access on Praslin would
be facilitated through rehabilitation of the main road network, airport improvements, and
enhancement of reliable water supplies. For environment the project would support EMPS
programs in resource management, biodiversity conservation, and marine pollution control, the
latter two through a program financed by the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET). Under
both the project and the Global Environment Facility (GEF) program, the Bank would continue
to assist with implementation of the EMPS as a whole. Indicators of progress toward attainment
of project objectives have been agreed with government (see also para. 3.32).
2.7        The project consists of two parts. The first part is an environment program,
comprising 57 percent of project base costs, focusing on resource management, protection of
biodiversity, and abatement of marine pollution. The second part is a transport program,
representing 43 percent of base costs, which consists of road rehabilitation, airport improvements,
and road safety. Road safety measures apply largely to Mahe. For most other elements,
however, the focus is on Praslin and the outer islands, where the need to ensure that
environmental preservation accompanies growth is especially acute.
2.8       In the context of the proposed project, the actions to reduce marine pollution and
several measures to protect biodiversity make up the GET-financed program. The GET-financed
biodiversity measures include the restoration and preservation of the ecosystem of Aldabra island,
and the protection of endangered sea turtles. For marine pollution reduction the GET would
finance the design and justification of waste reception facilities at the Port of Victoria.
2.9        The specific actions proposed are outlined below.  Further details on their
implementation can be found in Annexes 3, 4, 5, and 6.
I. ENVIRONMENT
A. Resource Management Program
Praslin Water Supply. Phase 11
To improve dry weather flows and the overall reliability of water provision while
avoiding more costly additions to capacity, two additional intakes would be constructed
at existing water installations at the Fond B'Offay and Nouvelle Decouverte rivers on
Praslin island. Actions would include the supply of 4 pumps, construction of 2
pumphouses, and laying of 900 m of ductile iron pipes. Further details on the proposed
works are included in Annex 6.



10
Water Resources Study and Management Plans for Outer Islands
Development of the coralline outer islands is severely constrained by a lack of fresh
water, and the exploitation of aquifers is limited by the threat of salt water intrusion.
Although data on water resources have been collected for several years, they have not
been analyzed with a view to formulating proper water management guidelines and
policy. Management plans would be prepared for 7 outer islands:  Alphonse,
Assomption, Astove, Coetivy, Desroches, Farquhar, and Providence. The management
plans would be prepared in four steps. First, existing water supply systems would be
surveyed and data collected through installation of wells, meteorological monitoring
stations, and drilling surveys. Second, additional hydrological data would be collected
on the inner, granitic islands for benchmark comparisons. The third step would consist
of the preparation of long-term water resource management plans for the main catchment
islands. Finally, a long-term data maintenance program would be established for
continuous monitoring of surface and underground water resources.
Marine Resources Management Plans
Although data are collected on some marine species, there are serious gaps in the
knowledge required to establish sustainable levels of exploitation with confidence. On
the basis of more systematic data collection, plans would be prepared and carried out for
the management of marine fisheries resources, especially tuna, reef fishes, demersal
fishes, and lobsters. The management measures to be formulated would be specific as
to size of catches, types of fishing gear, closed seasons, and similar topics. Advice
would be given in the drafting of fisheries regulations. Posters, leaflets, and other
educational materials would also be prepared, mainly for enforcement staff.
Organizational Study of Division of Environment (MEPER)
In carrying out its mandate, DOE, now the Division of Environment in MEPER, has
been adversely affected by the lack of trained personnel and equipment, limited
environmental expertise at senior management levels, and the absence of clear lines of
responsibility among the various ministries. A review of the organizational setup of the
Division of Environment would be undertaken to help overcome these problems as
rapidly as possible. The study would aim to propose an improved structure for the
Division, assess coordination and monitoring requirements for environmental programs,
and prepare staffing and training proposals.
B.       Biodiversity Conservation and Marine Pollution Abatement Program
Restoration and Preservation of Aldabra Ecosystem
This program consists of four parts: (i) rehabilitation of the scientific research
facility on Picard island, Aldabra; (ii) provision of personnel to strengthen SIF
research and conservation management; (iii) control of feral goats on islands of the



11
atoll; and (iv) preparation of a long-term management plan for Aldabra. Formerly
several days away from Mahe by boat, Aldabra is now much more accessible due
to completion of an airstrip on Assomption island, 3 hours away by sea. This
program would address critical issues such as the number and frequency of visits by
non-scientists, area designation for conservation purposes, supervision of visitors
while on the island, liaison with other reserves and national parks in Seychelles, and
the prospects for ecotourism programs. A more detailed description of this program
can be found in Annex 3.
Protection of Sea Turtles
The two species of marine turtles in Seychelles, the Green (Chelonia mydas) and
Hawksbill (Eretnochelys imbricata), are both on the endangered list. This program
is designed to implement a comprehensive set of actions to restrict or prohibit
marine turtle exploitation. The Green turtle protection program would define the
sustainable level of exploitation for the species in order to accommodate domestic
consumption. The Hawksbill turtle protection program would include a feasibility
study of Hawksbill turtle ranching, a turtle trade compensation study, retraining and
compensation for artisans presently working turtle shells, and educational materials
to Seychellois and tourists on the consequences of trade in and purchase of turtle
products. A fuller description of this program is contained in Annex 4.
Abatement of Marine Pollution
This component consists of a study to design and evaluate the waste reception and
disposal facilities at the Port of Victoria that are needed to comply with the
requirements of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from
Ships (MARPOL Convention). Actual construction of the facilities would take place
in a subsequent phase, beyond the proposed project. Further details on this activity
are included in Annex 5.
II. TRANSPORT
A. Praslin Road Improvement Program
On Praslin island, three earth roads totalling 13.3 km would be improved to paved
standard. The existing alignment will generally be maintained, with minor changes
largely to avoid disturbance to vegetation. Drains and culverts will be installed, and
edgewalls and seawalls repaired or constructed. Off-street bus lay-bys will be provided
along the SPTC bus service routes, and passing bays will be constructed in the narrow
sections. More details on this program are provided in Annex 6.



12
B. Praslin Airport Improvements
The present 1,200 x 26 m runway on Praslin is in need of periodic maintenance. In
addition, parking space for aircraft has become very restricted with the growth of the Air
Seychelles fleet. These problems are aggravated when general aviation or military
aircraft fly to Praslin. Under the project, the runway would be resurfaced to continue
to serve the type of aircraft now using it. Two 400-m2 extensions to the parking apron
would also be cleared and paved. A fuller discussion of these improvements can be
found in Annex 6.
C. Road Trarfic Safety Program
Negligent driving is the cause of over 90 percent of the accidents on Seychelles roads.
Phase I of this program consists of a diagnostic and evaluation study that will analyze
the current situation, evaluate the economic and social costs of road accidents, and
propose an Action Plan to improve traffic safety. In Phase 2, also supported by the
project, road signs and markings would be introduced, crash barriers installed, and street
lighting improved. A 3-km footpath would be constructed along the Cascade road, where
pedestrians are especially vulnerable to vehicular traffic. More details on the road traffic
safety measures to be introduced are found in Annex 12.
D. COST ESTIMATES
2.10       The total cost of the project is estimated at SR 35,028.4 million (US$7.006 million).
The foreign exchange component of SR 25,045.4 million (US$5.009 million) represents 72
percent of total project cost. Goods and services procured under the project would not be subject
to import duties or local taxation. Base costs are expressed in December 1992 prices. Base costs
are derived from preliminary and detailed designs for the physical components, and consultants'
feasibility studies and appraisal mission estimates for the other elements.    For the GEF
program, the remuneration of local and expatriate technical and managerial personnel was
estimated on the basis of current base pay and benefits in each case. Costs for consultant and
advisory services were estimated on the basis of recent provision of these services in Seychelles,
and include international and local travel, living allowances, and overheads. Project costs are
summarized in Table 2.1. Annex 7 provides detailed cost estimates, by year and by sub-
program, for each activity.
2.11       Physical contingencies for civil works have been estimated at 10 percent for Praslin
road and water supply improvements, and 15 percent for Praslin airport improvements,
construction of footpaths under the Road Traffic Safety Program, and rehabilitation of the
Aldabra research facility. For equipment, materials, and training, physical contingencies of 10
percent have been established. No physical contingencies have been attributed to consulting
services. Price contingencies for foreign costs are based on recent estimates of international
inflation of 3.7 percent for 1993 and beyond. Price escalation for the local portion of total
project cost is estimated at 3 percent for 1993 and 4 percent for 1994 and onward. These
forecasts are consistent with past experience, in which the rate of actual domestic price increase
was 2 percent in 1989, 4 percent in 1990, and 2 percent in 1991. They do however assume that



13
inflationary pressures in the future will be reflected in price movements, due to economic
liberalization, somewhat more has been the case in the recent past. Price escalation amounts to
4 percent of base costs plus physical contingencies.
E. FINANCING PLAN
2.12      The proposed project would be supported by the Government and by a grant from
the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET), in addition to the Bank. The foreign exchange costs
of US$5 million would be met by the Bank loan (US$3.8 million, or 76 percent of foreign costs)
and the GET grant (US$1.2 million, 24 percent of foreign costs). The Bank loan would also
finance 35 percent of local costs (US$ 0.7 million), with an additional 30 percent of local costs
supported by the GET grant (US$ 0.6 million) and the remaining 35 percent from the
government. Local cost financing represents a modest portion of the Bank loan (about 16
percent), and will ensure that foreign and local suppliers can compete on equal terms for supply
contracts for items available locally.  The critical importance of environment in natural
development strategies, and the considerable extent to which the project contributes to this key
development objective, provides additional justification for local cost financing. Financing of
recurrent costs such as salaries is the responsibility of government and the GET, and is not
included in the Bank loan.
2.13      The loan would be at the Bank's variable interest rate and is repayable in 15 years
including a grace period of 5 years, with level repayments of principal. GET funds would be
made available to implementing agencies as grants. Of the Bank loan, US$ 170,000 would be
onlent by the government to PUC at an interest rate of 8 percent for 13 years including three
years of grace. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the government. Signature of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the government and PUC concerning the Praslin Water
Supply Phase II works would be a condition of loan effectiveness.



14
TblIe l2ECIEMns
ENVIRONMENT AND TRANSPORT PROnBCr
RO3CT COSI ESllmTES
Loce       Borel4                      Local      ore4i                   % Forelu     % of
CWinm E                     T                                    IQ1 E xItamne    Tot
SR'000        -USS'000---
L ENVIRONMENT
A. Remu  Mo s magem.eet Progma
1. Praslln Water Supply, Phasel              5303          193.5        723.S        106.1        38.7       144.8           27         2
2. Water Resourc  Study ead Manaeet
Plans for Outer Iulnd                      936.0       3,841.0      4,797.0        191.2      761.2       959.4            S0       14
3. Marime Resours Msmagemeat Plaw             401.0      2,575.0      2,976.0         80.2       515.0       595.2            82        8
4. Orpniratonal Study of Dhiion of
Environmaeut                               117.0        275.0        392.0         23.4        55.0        78.4            70        1
Sub-tot al                                2,004.3      6,8S4.5      8,8S8.8       400.9      1,376.9     1,777.            77       25
Bbu wdly   Ceomtibmad Madga
Polludo Ah  m.,t Pmr a  (GM
1. RestoratiDn and Preservation of Aldabra
Ecosystem                                  397.0       2,576.0      2,973.0        79.4       515.2       594.6            87        8
2. Protection of Sea Turdes                 3,029.0      2,284.0      5,313.0        605.8       456.8     1,062.6            43       15
3. Waste Reception PFaclties (MARPOL) Study    77.0        688.0        765.0         15.4       137.6       153.0            90        3
Sub-total                                 3503.0       5,548.0      9,051.0       700.6      1.109.6     1,810.2           61       26
EL TRANSPORT
A. Pralin Road Improveumet Progrnm          2,938.3      7,037.7      9,976.0        587.7     1,407.5     1,995.2            71       28
B. PmsinAirportloprowrments                  253.0       1,183.3      1,436.3         50.6       236.7       287.3            S2        4
C. Road Traffic SafetyProgram                422.0       1,792.0      2,214.0         84.4       358.4       442.8           81         7
Sub-total                                 3,613.3     10,013.0     13,626.3        722.7     2,002.6     2,725.3           73        39
TOTAL BASE COST                                 9,120.6     22,445.5     31,566.1      1,824.2     4,489.1     6,313.3           71        90
Physkal Contingeces                              469.7       1,463.4      1,"3.1          93.9      292.7       386.6            76         6
Price Contingencle                               392.7       L136.5       1,529.2         78.5       227.3       305.8           74         4
TOTAL PROJBCT COST                              9U.A        2SS.4        35 .4        L.0A        SM9.1      7,U.07              72      100



15
The summary financing plan for the project is shown in Table 2.2 below:
Table 2.2
Summary Financing Plan
Contribution
Cofinancier                       US$  million
World Bank                              4.5
GET                                     1.8
Government                              0.7
Total                            7.0
2.14      For the technical advisers financed under the project and the GEF program, about
60 percent of expenditures are concerned with capacity building and institutional development.
Notable examples include the scientific and managerial personnel for Aldabra, the organizational
study of the Division of Environment, preparation of turtle management plans, training for LTD
staff in materials testing, and the marine resources management plans. The remaining 40 percent
of expenditures have to do with project preparation and implementation support. The study of
waste reception facilities and the water management study of the outer islands illustrate this type
of support.
2.15      The environment program supported by each of the above cofinanciers is part of a
larger program of implementation of the Seychelles national environmental action plan, the
EMPS. Major contributions and pledges to the EMPS have been made by several other donors,
including AfDB (US$8 million), CCCE (Caisse Centrale, France) (US$12 million),
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC, UK) (US$1.2 million), the European
Community (EC) (US$1.8 million), and the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation
(CFTC, UK) (US$1.4 million). In July 1992 the Netherlands government pledged support for
a Trust Fund for management of coastal ecosystems, protection of biodiversity, and institutional
support within the EMPS. It is expected that the Bank will be asked to administer this Trust
Fund. The financing and implementation of EMPS programs as a whole are described in detail
in Annex 1.



16
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. THE EMPS AND ITS IMPLEMENTATION
3.1       Along with praise for the EMPS as an exposition of sound environmental policy,
concerns have been expressed about the country's ability to mobilize the staff, resources,
enforcement, and public involvement that is necessary for the EMPS to succeed on the ground.
Commitments from donors have been received for part or all of 20 projects in the EMPS, and
11 projects are currently underway. Pledges have been made for another 19 projects. Since the
EMPS is being implemented by several ministries, public enterprises, and NGOs, the
coordination and monitoring of these activities is of critical importance.
3.2       The measures supported by the Bank loan and the GET grant are parts of a broader
whole, the EMPS. It would have been unwise to set up a project implementation unit, that would
have reflected an artificial distinction between Bank-supported EMPS programs and the others.
The emphasis is therefore on coordination of implementation of the EMPS as a whole, and is
focused especially on the central role of the Environment Division of MEPER.
3.3       Several steps would be taken to strengthen the coordination and management role
of the Environment Division. MEPER would appoint a National Coordinator that would
supervise the progress of EMPS execution, provide advice to participating groups, exchange
information, and directly manage some EMPS projects. Additional details on establishment of
the National Coordinator position and a description of duties are contained in Annex 2. The
appointment is expected to be made before the end of 1992, and would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Bank loan as well as of the GET grant. Moreover, the principle of dispersed
management of the EMPS has been adopted, whereby MEPER will delegate management of most
EMPS projects to SIF, PMSD, and other groups whose specialized expertise can be brought to
bear. Comprehensive staffing and training plans, a third element of the implementation plan,
are expected from the Organizational Study of the Division of Environment, to be financed under
the project. Because of labor scarcities, training will always need to be supplemented by
specialized foreign expertise, as it is in the proposed project. Finally, environmental legislation
will be strengthened where needed, especially in making it mandatory to carry out environmental
impact assessments for all major investment projects.
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
3.4       Within the above framework, a number of agencies and ministries would have
specific responsibilities for the program, as outlined below. The Implementation Schedule for
the project is given in Annex 15.
Resource Management Program
3.5       The Praslin/La Digue district office of PUC will carry out the Praslin Water Supply
Phase II program. Its experience and the availability of staff familiar with Praslin conditions
make it most economical for PUC to undertake engineering works and supervision itself. The



17
Bank would conclude a Project Agreement with PUC for the proposed works. All source works,
reticulation systems, and other water assets are still owned by the government.  Prior to
December 31, 1993, the government would transfer to PUC, on a loan and/or equity basis, all
water assets it now owns. Both of the existing intakes at Fond B'Offay and Nouvelle
Decouverte, as well as those proposed at the same locations, lie at the inner boundary of the
Vallee de Mai National Park. As a condition of disbursement for the Praslin water component,
an assessment of the possible impacts of the proposed works on the national park would be
undertaken by the Division of Environment, MEPER. The results of this assessment would be
fully taken into account in the design and implementation of the works.
3.6       The water resources study and management plans for the outer islands would be
managed by the Environment Division, MEPER in collaboration with PUC and with the Islands
Development Company (IDC), a public enterprise responsible for development of the outer
islands. The enhanced data base generated from the management plans would be stored and
maintained by MEPER.
3.7        SFA would manage the preparation of marine resources management plans. In the
process, SFA would coordinate with the technological support services division of the Office of
the President, which reviews marine biotechnology issues as well as ways of using marine
resources for commercial purposes. As a condition of disbursement of funds for the marine
resources management plans, MEPER and SFA would sign a Memorandum of Understanding
which would outline the responsibilities of each in preparation of the management plans.
3.8       The Organizational Study of the Division of Environment will be carried out by a
group of local and foreign consultants under the supervision of the Director-General of
Environment. The study will be closely monitored by the Environment Steering Committee (see
para. 1.16).
Biodiversity Conservation and Marine Pollution Abatement Program
3.9       SIF would manage all facets of the Aldabra program.   To define roles and
responsiblities, a Memorandum of Understanding will be concluded between the government and
SIF for implementation of the program. Signature of the Memorandum of Understanding is a
condition of disbursement of the GET grant. SIF would be responsible for recruitment of the
scientific and managerial personnel, and of consultants for the goat control program. It is
expected that the managerial and scientific personnel recruited will be major contributors to the
long-term management plan.
3.10 At present, the management of SIF is weak. It lacks permanent staff, and requires
strengthening in its handling of funds, administration, support to scientific personnel and
overseeing of field activities. As a condition of disbursement of the GET grant, SIF would
appoint a full-time Executive Director to manage its day to day operations including the Aldabra
program. The SIF Board of Directors at its meeting of August 1992 took the decision to provide
financial support for such a position. The Executive Director would assign high priority to
improvements in financial administration. The National Coordinator in MEPER would contribute
in this respect by exercising supervision to ensure that the accounts are properly managed and
that decisions of the Board of Trustees are implemented.



18
3.11       The turtle protection program will be managed by the Conservation and National
Parks Section of the Environment Division, MEPER. SFA, with long experience trying to
manage sea turtle stocks, will make specialized inputs during implementation. SFA will also be
called upon to enforce the Green turtle quota regulations that are likely to form part of the
management plan. For the Hawksbill program, and as a condition of disbursement of the GET
grant, a Memorandum of Understanding would be concluded between MEPER and the
Department of Industry (DOI) in the Office of the President in collaboration with CODEVAR,
an artisan development company.  This agreement will outline the responsibilities of
DOI/CODEVAR for undertaking the turtle trade compensation study and the re-training and
compensation of artisans. Legislation would furthermore be put into effect prior to December
31, 1993 to ban domestic trade in turtle shell products.
3.12       PMSD, in collaboration with the Harbour Master's Office, would be in charge of
the waste reception facilities study. PMSD effectively managed the port improvements financed
under the earlier Bank-assisted Transport Project (para. 1.27). It is presently consulting with
local and foreign experts, including the International Maritime Organization (IMO), on the
organization and staffing of the study.
Transport Program
3.13      LTD will carry out the road rehabilitation program on Praslin and the road safety
measures.  Under the supervision of DCA, LTD  will also handle contracting for the
improvements at the Praslin airport in order to facilitate contract management of these relatively
small works involving the same equipment and procedures as the road program. LTD was
responsible for the earlier paving of the airport runway. During the same period it had a good
track record in implementation of the road rehabilitation portion of the Bank-assisted Transport
project. In road safety LTD is playing the leading role. The Director-General of LTD chairs
the Road Traffic Safety Commission, and has been instrumental in launching the current traffic
safety campaign.
3.14       LTD is however under completely new management since the Transport project was
completed. Its engineering capacity remains fairly strong, but for financial, economic, and
environmental assistance it requires outside consultant help. Although no long-term technical
assistance is required, provision has been made for short-term support in training and other
specialized topics.  LTD usually fields a full-time engineer on Praslin to manage road
maintenance, but the position is now vacant. As a condition of disbursement for the Praslin road
improvement component, LTD would fill this vacancy with a full-time road rehabilitation
specialist who would take charge of the program.
C. PROCUREMENT
3.15       Contracts for an aggregate value of US$2.5 million equivalent for Praslin road and
airport rehabilitation would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Several lots would be packaged for international competitive
bidding in order to increase competition. Rebates for combinations of lots would be considered,
and contracts would be awarded for one or more lots depending on the most advantageous
combination. Because the works are not overly complex, prequalification would not be required.



19
Review of bid documents prior to contract award would be required for civil works contracts
greater than US$100,000 and for equipment contracts greater than US$50,000. With regard to
procurement of goods, for purposes of evaluation and comparison of bids, under international
competitive bidding, a preference of 15 percent or the value of the applicable customs duties,
whichever is lower, would be allowed for equipment, materials, and supplies produced in
Seychelles.
3.16       Contracts for road safety and traffic management measures (US$200,000 maximum)
will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
LCB procedures include local advertising plus notification of embassies, since foreign finms are
not excluded from bidding or from being paid in foreign exchange. The small scale of these
works, which are not likely to attract foreign firms, justifies the use of LCB. Laying of pipes
and other civil works of the Praslin Water Supply Phase II component (US$0.1 million) would
be executed through direct labor (force account) by PUC, which has the capacity to carry out
such works efficiently and economically by this method. PUC would also carry out all
engineering works and supervision. For this component, the 4 pumps are proposed to be
procured from the same source as existing pumps to facilitate operation and maintenance and the
keeping of spare parts. Works supervision for road and airport improvements would be carried
out by LTD, which has the necessary experience to undertake these tasks effectively.
3.17       Consultants for training, technical assistance, and studies would be selected in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Incremental operating expenses for the project consist mainly
of staff salaries, and would be financed entirely by the government and the GET grant. Bank
procurement guidelines would also apply to expenditures financed under the GET grant. The
format used for the preparation of bidding documents under international competitive bidding will
be that described in the World Bank publications Procurement of Goods (March 1986) and
Procurement of Works (Smaller Contracts) (March 1992).



20
3.18         Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.1 below.
Table 3.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS MILLION)
Not             Total   Pcntage
ICB             LCB              Other   Avvlicable W     Cost    of Total
Civil Works              2.5              0.1              0.1                      2.7     39%
(2.1)           (0.0)            (0. 1)                   (2.2)
Equipment, Materials,
and Supplies             0.6              0.2              0.2                      1.0      14%
(0.6)           (0.2)            (0.0)                    (0.8)
Training                                                   0.2                      0.2      3%
(0.1)                    (0.1)
Technical Assistance                                       0.8                      0.8      11%
(0.7)                    (0.7)
Consulting Services                                        1.5                      1.5     21%
(0.6)                    (0.6)
Operating Expenses                                                 0.2              0.2      3%
(0.0)           (0.0)
Artisan Compenation
and Re-installation                                                0.6              0.6      9%
(0.1)           (0.1)
TOTAL              3.1             0.3              2.8      0.8             7.0    100%
(2.7)           (0.2)            (1.5)   (0. 1)           (4.5)
Note:   Figures in parentheses indicate amounts to be funanced under Bank loan.
International shopping, direct purchae, force account, and hiring of consultants
Includes increnental operating costs and salaries and revenue compensation to artisans (GET)
Long-term adviser, for studies
Other consulting ervices for studies
3.19            Procurement procedures  in  Seychelles  reflect general guidelines for the
achievement of fair competition. The specific steps adopted in contract awards are usually those
of the external donor concerned. Two of the implementing agencies of this project (LTD and
PMSD) were also involved in the previous one, and no major procurement problems were
observed in either case. There is consequently no need to apply remedial measures. However,
other implementing agencies, notably SIF and SFA, have no experience with Bank-financed
procurement. MEPER, and especially the National Coordinator's office, would therefore support
the process of hiring of consultants. Specific responsibilities would be spelled out in the
Memoranda of Understanding to be concluded with each agency. For this task and also for the



21
studies MEPER will manage directly, MEPER has gained sufficient experience from its
management of the consultant selection process for the Organizational Study of the Division of
Environment, and earlier from preparation of the Mah6 Integrated Water Supply program.
D. DISBURSEMENTS
3.20         Table 3.2 below gives the amounts allocated in the Bank loan to each
disbursement category:
Table 3.2: DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Disbursement        Bank Loan Allocated,       % of Expenditure
Categzory          in US$ million             to be Financed
Civil Works               2.1                 100% of foreign expenditures
and 75% of local expenditures
Equipment, Materials,     0.7                  100% of foreign expenditures
and Supplies                                  and 75% of local expenditures
Training                  0.1                  100% of foreign expenditures
and 50% of local expenditures
Technical Assistance      0.6                  100% of foreign expenditures
and 50% of local expenditures
Consulting Services       0.6                 100% of foreign expenditures
and 50% of local expenditures
Artisan Compensation      0.1                 100% of foreign expenditures
and Re-installation                           and 50% of local expenditures
Unallocated               0 
TOTAL               4.5
3.21         The schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Annex 14. This schedule
is not based on a standard profile for the sectors or region, but has been designed to fit the
specific circumstances of the Bank-assisted and the GEF program.
3.22         To ensure prompt availability of funds for the program, a Special Account
(revolving fund) would be established in US dollars in a commercial bank in Seychelles. The
initial deposit into the Special Account would be US$300,000.  All expenditures under
US$50,000 would be met from the Special Account. For expenditures above this threshold, the



22
direct payment or Special Commitment procedure may be used. Replenishment requests would
be submitted monthly, and all expenditures would be fully documented except (i) expenditures
under contracts of less than US$20,000; (ii) local training; and (iii) expenditures under the artisan
compensation and re-installation component which would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure. MEPER would forward withdrawal requests to the Ministry of Finance for review
and approval prior to dispatch to the Bank.
3.23         In the Transport Project (Ln. 2492-SEY), the only disbursement issue requiring
attention was late requests for replenishment of the Special Account. Otherwise no special
problems were encountered. Accounting capabilities within MEPER have been strengthened since
the earlier project, and this, combined with close monitoring, should improve the timeliness of
requests for replenishment of the Special Account.
E. ACCOUNTING, FINANCIAL REPORTING, AND AUDITING
3.24         Separate project accounts would be established in the implementing ministries and
agencies for project activities. MEPER would keep consolidated records and accounts of all
project activities, including those undertaken by all implementing ministries and agencies.
3.25          Government accounts are audited annually by the office of the Director of Audit.
The financial records of PUC and SIF are audited yearly by independent auditors. Despite
staffing constraints, the quality of government audits is satisfactory. However, expenditures of
government ministries related to the project, having been incorporated into the consolidated
accounts by MEPER, will be subject to annual audit by an independent auditor whose experience
and qualifications are acceptable to the Bank. As is already the practice, the financial records
of PUC would be examined yearly by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. These audits
will show separate accounts for the Praslin/La Digue water district. The financial records of SIF,
for actions related both to the GEF program and to its other activities, would be subject to
independent audit in a similar manner.
3.26          Although there is no official source of auditing standards in Seychelles,
procedures in effect in the UK are generally followed. The auditor's report must attest to
whether the financial statements are considered to present a "true and fair view" of the company's
activities. There are four audit firms in Seychelles, two of which are fully satisfactory by these
standards. One of the major international firms is represented in Seychelles, and some accounting
firms in neighboring countries have Seychelles clients.
F. TRAINING
3.27          Seychellois responsible for environmental preservation are generally well trained,
but lack sufficient resources to carry out and enforce what they already know how to do.
Training of additional staff is hampered by labor scarcities and by the high opportunity cost of
recruiting someone from elsewhere in the economy. Consequently, appropriate training generally
takes the form of on the job learning of counterparts collaborating with expatriates, and short-
term intensive courses locally or abroad to fill specific knowledge gaps.



23
3.28         Both types of training will be pursued under the project. The most important
examples of counterpart training are the water resources management plans for the outer islands,
the Aldabra restoration program, and the National Coordinator's office, for which the government
has pledged to provide counterparts and in which a productive collaboration is expected.
Examples of short-term technical training include a work attachment abroad for the chief engineer
responsible for Praslin roads, overseas training in water resources management for Seychellois
staff, and training in materials testing for LTD. The re-training of artisans to pursue other
occupations also falls into this category.
3.29         In addition to formal training, the project emphasizes the dissemination of posters,
leaflets, videos, and other educational materials designed to heighten awareness of environmental
issues. Illustrations include educational and background information for fishermen on protection
of marine resources, and campaigns for visiting tourists on the consequences of purchasing
Hawksbill turtle shell items.
G. SUPERVISION
3.30         The Bank would devote some 79 weeks of supervision to the progress of the Bank
loan and the GEF program through FY97. During the first three years, supervision will focus
mainly on progress toward achieving specific objectives, such as works and study completion,
and on monitoring of the performance of implementing agencies. In the final two years the
emphasis will shift more fully toward evaluation of results and especially follow-up to implement
the action plans prepared. It should also be recalled that collaboration with NGOs and other
donors will result in a far more comprehensive picture of overall progress of environmental
actions than any single agency, including the Bank, could produce on its own. The Bank plans
to continue a policy of open, two-way exchange of information with all agencies with active
environmental programs in Seychelles.
3.31         Staffing requirements, and the proposed timing and frequency of supervision, are
included in Annex 15. This schedule was prepared in collaboration with implementing agencies,
and is meant to coincide as much as possible with critical junctures in Seychelles, such as annual
meetings of the SIF Board of Trustees, meetings of the Environment Steering Committee, and
discussion periods between the completion of a management plan and the start of its
implementation. A project launch workshop, at which implementation arrangements and
documentation will be finalized, will be held in early 1993.
H. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
3.32          MEPER would prepare reports each quarter describing the progress of each
program element from the physical, financial, and socio-economic standpoint. These reports
would review the performance of implementing agencies, monitor the key indicators of progress
in fulfillment of program goals, and identify any major problems with their recommended
solutions. The Closing Date of the loan is June 30, 1997. A Project Completion Report would
be prepared and sent to the Bank within six months after the close of disbursements. Progress
reporting requirements, and a description of the key indicators to be monitored, are included in
Annex 16.



24
3.33         Mid-Term Review. Prior to December 31, 1994, a mid-term review focusing
on EMPS implementation as a whole will be carried out. The review will be carried out jointly
by the Bank and the government. Resources for Bank participation have been included in the
supervision schedule, as well as in the Bank's economic and sector work program for FY95. The
main objective of this exchange of views would be to evaluate the success at mid-term of project
elements and reach agreement on any remedial actions or modifications to project design. Among
other topics, the review will cover: (a) the overall managerial efficiency and performance of SIF;
(b) progress in sea turtle mangaement plans in relation to the outcome of stock assessment, the
Hawksbill turtle ranching study, and the turtle trade compensation study; (c) review of the
financial performance of the PUC Praslin/La Digue office with regard to adequacy of water
tariffs, revenue and expenditure, and timetable for meeting the target rate of return on net fixed
assets; and (d) the impact on the Praslin economy and environment of basic infrastructure
investments in water supply, road rehabilitation, and airport improvements. For purposes of the
mid-term review, the government would prepare a report on the progress of implementation, with
emphasis on the above-mentioned issues, by October 31, 1994.



25
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. BUDGET AND EXPENDITURES FOR ENVIRONMENT
4.1           In Seychelles, the main responsibility for environmental preservation is vested in
a line ministry. Financial issues consequently focus on the ability of this ministry to command,
from the budgetary process, the financial resources required to discharge its tasks adequately.
For the transport sector the critical issues similarly concern the mechanisms by which funds are
forthcoming for operation, maintenance, and renewal in addition to recurrent expenditures, the
efficiency with which funds are spent, and the sustainability of resources for maintenance. For
water supply, furnished by the public enterprise PUC, the usual pricing, cost recovery, and
financing issues apply, but are affected in this case by the smallness of the Praslin/La Digue
operation in relation to total water connections in the country. For airport services cost recovery
is also a policy issue, particularly the relation between aircraft landing fees and the operations
and maintenance expenditures of the airport facility.
Division or Environment
4.2           Since the creation of the Department of Environment in June 1989, budget
allocations from the Ministry of Finance have increased steadily. The approved fiscal 1992
operating budget is 78 percent of the amount that the now-Division of Environment requested,
and is close to double the budget approved for fiscal 1990. The 1991 budget originally approved
was low, but was increased at the mid-year budget review in August 1991 in conjunction with
the startup of implementation of the EMPS. A further increase is expected in 1993. If the
allocation of financial resources continues at the pace of the last three years, there should be no
major financial constraint on the application of environmental policy. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that budgetary allocations at least equal in real terms to the approved 1992
operating budget will be maintained through fiscal year 1996 for the Division of Environment of
MEPER. A summary of operating expenditures requested and approved for 1990-92 is given in
Table 4.1 below. MEPER units typically spend all of the amounts approved in the budget.
Table 4.1                     DIVISION OF ENVIRONMENT
BUDGETS REQUESTED AND APPROVED, 1990-92
(SR'000)
1990                   1991                   12
Requested    Approved    Requested    Approved    Requested    Appavd
Salaries               5,244       5,129      6,828       5,137       8,486      6,724
Other Charges          2,246       1,424       1,965      1,520       3,482      2,478
Minor Capital Outlays  1.115        363       2.38                     42        2.1)3
TOTAL               8,605       6,916      11,178      7,475      15,380      12,005
Source: Division of Environment



26
4.3            The budget allocation system for environment is consistent with the concept of
nature tourism, whereby tourist expenditures to experience a natural environment contribute to
foreign exchange earnings and are later redistributed according to national priorities. In the
future there should be more prospects for an ecotourism approach, in which tourist expenditures
in a natural area or on a species are kept and used directly for preservation of that area or
species. Currently, fees from visitors to Cousin island are sufficient to meet operating and
maintenance costs of conservation measures, including salaries of the six resident specialists.
Bird island, a privately owned sand cay and a refuge for migrating waterfowl, also meets its
operating expenses from overnight visitors. Under the long-term management plan, it is likely
that any future non-scientist visitors to Aldabra would be charged at least the full operating costs
of the expanded facilities.
SIF
4.4            SIF is a charitable trust with its own financial resources.  Its current assets
amount to nearly SR 2 million (US$ 400,000), including SR 1.4 million in Seychelles government
bonds. Annual income is about SR1.5 million, most of it coming from admissions fees at the
Vallee de Mai national park. The Smithsonian Institution (US) and the Royal Society (UK) each
contribute US$10,000 equivalent per year. Total expenditures now average about SR 1.1 million,
about half of which is salaries. Income has exceeded expenses by some SR 400,000 over the past
two years, which has so far been used to build up liquidity. However, current expenses do not
include any rehabilitation of existing facilities or acquisition of new equipment. Indicators of the
financial status of SIF are included in Table 4.2 below.
Table 4.2                     SEYCHELLES ISLAND FOUNDATION
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
(SR'000)
1989        1990         1991
Balance Shee
Current Assets                             1,045        1,491        1,937
Current Liabilities                           93         106           84
Accumulated Capital,
31 December                                1,287        1,688       2,128
Profit and Loss
Income                                                  1,544       1,571
Total Direct Expenses                                   1,143        1,130
Surplus                                                  401         441
Flxed Assets. 31 December
Workers' Cottages                                        -           235
Boats and Engines                                        -            15
Other Equipment                                          -            25
Net Book Value                                           303         275
Source: SIF Financial Statements



27
4.5          SIF's most urgent priority is to better utilize the resources it has, rather than
strengthen its financial base. To this end, the Executive Director to be appointed will be
responsible for introducing improved financial management methods including cost accounting.
Oversight on financial record-keeping will be exercised by the National Coordinator, in
collaboration with the accounting section of MEPER which has several years of experience
dealing with project finances, to ensure that the accounts are properly managed.
B. PUC (PRASLIN/LA DIGUE) FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
AND PROSPECTS
4.6           PUC's financial performance since 1987 has on the whole been good. In 1989
and 1990 PUC declared dividends of about US$1 million (77 percent of combined net income
from water and electricity) and US$0.9 million (98 percent of combined net income) respectively,
in spite of a working ratio of about 80 percent. Water and sewerage accounted for more than
90 percent of total net income. The government, rather than PUC, owns the great bulk of water
assets, and therefore it is the govermnent that has ensured payment of debt service on loans
previously contracted. In return, the government has required PUC to make dividend payments,
which have in effect substituted for debt servicing on water assets. PUC operations currently
result in a rate of return on net fixed assets of 2.2 percent.
4.7          Water tariffs are established uniformly for the country, in accordance with the
Public Utilities Act of 1985.  PUC guidelines call for water charges to meet operation and
maintenance costs. The latest tariff increase, of 50 percent in 1987, brought the charges to SR
6.43 (US$ 1.30) per m3. Water tariffs are high in relation to many other countries, but they need
to be in view of the high capital cost of serving a relatively small and scattered population. At
present, the cost of water per m3 is approximately the same on Praslin as it is on Mahe.
However, it will be important in the future for PUC to be able to impose different charges for
water, so that tariffs correspond to the specific cost structure prevailing on each of the main
islands. The concept and the possible timing of differential water tariffs were discussed at
negotiations. It was concluded that tariffs in the future could be more closely linked to
investments and cost structures from one area to another. Additional analysis will be undertaken
of this question by PUC in collaboration with MEPER. It is expected that this analysis will be
available prior to December 31, 1993, at the time of the first checkpoint of PUC's financial
condition and of the adequacy of current water tariffs.
4.8          PUC manages a total of 12,500 water connections on Mahe, Praslin, and La
Digue. Of this total, the Praslin/La Digue water district office accounts for 1,400 connections
with annual sales of US$460,000. There are 26 employees on Praslin/La Digue. A Finance and
Administration division with 12 employees serves both the Water and Electricity divisions.
4.9           PUC has begun to carry out a four-part improvement program designed to address
its most critical organizational and financial needs. First, ownership and management of all water
assets is the primary means for PUC to become an autonomous agency capable of improving and
expanding water and sewerage services. In 1991 a revaluation of assets was completed to this
end. Second, PUC has initiated several cost reduction and demand management measures,
including meter repair, leak detection, and reduction in unaccounted-for water. A Systems
Manual which describes procedures for regular progress reporting and cost control was completed
in early 1992. Third, the introduction of cost accounting and implementation of an improved



28
billing and collection system are among the improvements in financial management and planning
now underway. Periodic tariff adjustments are the final element of this improvement program.
4.10          Thus far, these measures have mostly affected operations on Mahe. For the
Praslin/La Digue water office, the current financial performance is inadequate. The working
ratio in 1991 and 1992 was about 98 percent, and on current trends is projected to reach 100
percent by 1993. Overstaffing in support services has resulted in high labor costs, averaging 40
percent of sales. Lack of proper control of transportation charges and equipment inventory
results in an additional cost representing about 32 percent of sales. If interest and depreciation
were accounted for, the result of operations would be a deficit. Unaccounted-for water including
treatment works losses now stands at 20 percent of production. Although a low proportion by
the standards of most developing countries, it is possible and desirable to reduce this figure
further.
4.11          An improvement program to be supported under the project, focusing on asset
management and on reduction in operating costs, has consequently been identified for the
Praslin/La Digue district water office. The transfer to PUC of all water assets, riot just those of
Praslin/La Digue, would be a major step toward autonomous management of water resources and
improved financial viability. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that by the end of 1993
government would effect the transfer to PUC of all water assets it presently owns. Measures to
reduce operating costs would center on reductions in staff costs and in expenditures on transport
and equipment, projected to be 30 percent lower by 1995, compared with 1993 figures.
Assurances were furthermore obtained at negotiations that, by means of these and such other
measures as PUC decides to take, (i) its working ratio is not higher than 85 percent by the end
of 1994 and 70 percent by the end of 1995; (ii) receivables on Praslin/La Digue water operations
do not exceed 60 days of sales for domestic, commercial, and governiment accounts by the end
of 1993; and (iii) the Praslin/La Digue water operations yield by 1995 a return on net fixed assets
in operation of at least 2 percent. This return is achievable through increased water sales that
the project will make possible, combined with the above cost reductions, even accounting for the
inclusion of debt service. Annual forecasts will permit close monitoring of progress, and other
measures including tariff increases would be taken to achieve these results if cost reductions alone
are not sufficient. The first annual review, at the end of 1993, will focus particularly on whether
a tariff increase is needed to complement the cost reduction measures. Through these means a
small surplus on net income would be realized by 1995, and would grow in subsequent years.
Finally, it was agreed at negotiations that the proportion of unaccounted-for water would be
reduced to 18 percent of production for Praslin/La Digue operations by the end of 1993, and at
least maintained at that level thereafter.
C. ROAD SECTOR FINANCING AND ROAD USER CHARGES
4.12         With the improvement of the road network, forecasts of annual expenditures by
LTD call for road maintenance expenditures to remain at an average of SR 4.9 million until at
least 1995. As indicated in Annex 18, budget allocations from the Ministry of Finance have been
adequate to cover the costs of road maintenance as well as the administrative costs of LTD.
Direct income from road users, such as vehicle and license fees, do not cover the cost of road
maintenance. However, when considered together with duties on fuel, which are paid into the
Treasury and not into an earmarked fund, total revenues exceed the cost of road maintenance.



29
Capital investments for new infrastructure are financed directly from the capital budget. Taxes
on all petroleum products are SR 5.96 per liter. The demand for petroleum products for the
domestic market will likely amount to more than 51,400 metric tons in 1992, compared with
36,000 in 1987.
4.13          It is reasonable to expect, based on past budget performance, that with continued
careful management and priority to the road network the annual government outlays to LTD for
road maintenance and administration will be adequate. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that budgetary allocations at least equal in real terms to the approved 1992 budget would be made
to LTD with regard to its operating budget and allocations for road maintenance.
D. PRICING AND FINANCING OF PRASLIN AIRPORT SERVICES
4.14          Revenues from the Praslin aerodrome services mainly consist of charges levied
for the landing of an aircraft and miscellaneous income from the rental of space in the terminal
facility. The current landing fees were determined by regulation issued in 1988 by the Minister
responsible for civil aviation. The charge for the landing of an aircraft on Praslin is now set at
SR 15 for each 1,000 kg of permissible weight specified for the aircraft (the charge for aircraft
2,000 kg or less and for helicopters is one-half of the specified charge). There is a surcharge of
40 percent for night operations.
4.15          As indicated in Annex 18, revenues from airport services do not cover the costs
of maintenance of the airstrip and other functions related to its operation. In 1991, total revenues
represented only 50 percent of the cost of operation and maintenance of the airfield. DCA has
carefully managed the facilities, and the scope for cost reduction is limited since 71 percent of
costs are devoted to salaries of essential personnel and necessary allowances.  There is
consequently a need to raising landing fees, not only to meet the cost of expanded operations but
to reduce the current discrepancy between fees and costs.  Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that as a condition of disbursements for the airport improvements component, landing
fees at the Praslin airport would be raised to SR 30 per 1,000 kg of permissible weight. The
resulting revenues would meet 100 percent of operating costs of the airport, with the improved
facilities. This increase would be incorporated into the round trip ticket price, currently SR 340,
and is expected to have no effect on passenger visits to Praslin.



30
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. PROJECT BENEFITS
5.1           Preparation of the EMPS in conjunction with the NDP 1990-94 represents in itself
a major step toward incorporation of environmental practice into development decision-making.
The next step is to determine the impacts of the EMPS programs, including the Bank loan and
the GEF measures, on the country's ability to manage its natural resources efficiently. Ideally,
the impacts will be quantified as costs and benefits and one or more valuation techniques will be
applied to them. This approach could feasibly be attempted toward the end of the EMPS
implementation period. For the project and the GEF program, the foundation for eventual
quantification of costs and benefits would be laid by collection and maintenance of data, careful
monitoring of impacts, and the systematic use of environmental impact assessments for major
investments.
5.2          The GEF program would primarily benefit the international community by
addressing issues of global concern. GEF support of endangered sea turtles represents the pilot
phase demonstration of how to meet the challenges of preservation of endemic biodiversity in
isolated island communities. This program would provide alternative forms of livelihood and
compensation for the foregone benefits of turtle harvesting to local populations. The Aldabra
program, rather than seeking only to arrest degradation, aims at restoration and preservation of
the ecosystem. With regard to marine pollution, only Seychelles among nations of the western
Indian Ocean has signed the MARPOL Convention.   Support for port waste reception and
disposal symbolizes the willingness of the international donor community to support the
implementation of measures that it has been advocating for the developing countries. The
demonstration benefit for other nations of the cost-effectiveness of reception facilities for pollution
that is partly generated outside the national boundaries is therefore expected to be significant.
5.3          More dependable basic infrastructure on Praslin will be a spur to realization of
the potential of the island for nature tourism in a semi-remote setting. The proposed road
improvements would ensure that almost all main roads are paved. Benefits will accrue in
particular to the local population and the tourism industry. The direct beneficiaries will mainly
be private operators of taxis and other vehicles for hire, and the public bus company SPTC, as
well as visitors enjoying easier access to departure points for hiking, water sports, and other
nature-based activities.
B. INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
5.4          A quantitative economic analysis was not undertaken for the environment
program, which consists mostly of management plans and studies. However, internal economic
rates of return (IERRs) were calculated for water supply and airport improvements and for the
road program. These activities represent 38 percent of project costs.
5.5           Even though improved access will facilitate development, and of tourism in
particular, the estimates of internal economic rate of return (IERR) for the road rehabilitation
program take as a measure of benefits only the reductions in vehicle operating and road



31
maintenance costs. On the basis of forecasts of traffic growth (see Annex 6), the internal
economic rate of return for the Anse Boudin road is 27 percent, for Anse Consolation 15 percent,
and for Anse Kerlan 13 percent. The weighted average IERR for the road program is 17 percent.
Sensitivity tests were carried out concerning a reduction of benefits and increase in costs. If
benefits were to be 10 percent lower than forecast, the IERRs would range from 11 to 24
percent. The most sensitive cost item is the cost and installation of asphalt premix. If this cost
were to increase by 20 percent, a large amount based on past experience, the IERRs would
decrease to 24 percent, 13 percent, and 11 percent for the Anse Boudin, Anse Consolation, and
Anse Kerlan roads respectively or to 15 percent for all roads.
5.6          With the increases in hotel capacity being experienced on Praslin, it is critical that
the airport runway and other facilities be properly maintained. The relatively light asphalt
pavement will need periodic overlays to remain in service for the present Twin Otter aircraft.
Although well suited to the route, this aircraft is no longer produced and in the future would need
replacement, most likely by a somewhat larger and heavier aircraft. Meanwhile, the periodic
maintenance on the runway supported under the project will allow flights with the present aircraft
to continue, and will avoid much more costly reconstruction of the runway later on. Expansion
of the parking apron will permit more flexibility in flight scheduling-in order to meet the demand
for trips to Praslin during the morning peak and return to Mahe in the late afternoon. If only one
flight at half-capacity is added to the 25-30 now operating per day, the IERR for the Praslin
airport improvements is estimated to be 43 percent.
5.7          The Praslin water supply improvements will result in additional sales through the
1990s, especially during dry periods, from water which would not otherwise be available. As
is well known, sales provide only an approximate meisure of economic benefits. Using this
measure, however, the IERR of Praslin water supply improvements is estimated at 47 percent.
This is considered to be a minimum estimate of benefits, since the separate health-related benefits
of reliable water supplies have not been calculated. The weighted average IERR for all project
elements for which a quantitative analysis was undertaken is 22 percent.
C. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
5.8          For the transport program, works will consist of paving and resurfacing of
existing alignments rather than new construction. The proposed road improvements will virtually
eliminate dust problems but will increase traffic noise. Elimination of the dust problem will
mainly benefit road users on Anse Consolation, while at Anse Boudin both road users and
residents with adjacent houses will benefit. Effects on residents would be controlled by retaining
the present alignments which, especially on the Anse Boudin and Anse Consolation roads, will
be an automatic restraint on speed. LTD has incorporated into its design the main conclusions
of the environmental impact assessment concerning minimum cutting of trees, removal of rocks,
landscaping, and repair of seawalls without interfering with the natural coastline. For Anse
Consolation especially, the disposal of excess soil in a manner that does not lead to environmental
damage is likely to involve transporting the materials some distance away. More generally, the
proposed improvements are expected to reduce surface erosion, and reshaping and landscaping
of embankments would increase the positive effect.
5.9           At the Nouvelle Decouverte river, the proposed site for the new intake is located
upstream from another intake presently being constructed for an agricultural scheme. Based on



32
an analysis carried out by PUC, the proposed extraction of water on Praslin for domestic and
hotel consumption would not affect the water requirements under the agricultural scheme. The
proposed works will have little or no adverse environmental impact.
5.10         The GEF program is expected to have significant positive effects on the
environment, and the adverse impacts are expected to be minimal. Studies and management
planning comprise the bulk of this program. Civil works at the Aldabra research station will
consist of rehabilitation of existing facilities rather than expansion. Overall environmental effects
will be monitored by the Environmental Assessment and Pollution Control section of MEPER.
D. IMPACT ON POVERTY GROUPS
5.11         Although not intended to address poverty issues directly, the project would
significantly benefit low-income populations in at least two respects. Poor families have been
affected more than others when marine resources such as octopus and lobsters become scarce.
Depletion of stocks forced a ban on the taking of lobsters in 1986, which was not able to be
rescinded until 1991. Preparation of management plans for marine resources would identify the
sustainable yield of such resources, and consequently help prevent scarcities through over-
exploitation. Second, poor families on Praslin tend to take public transportation or walk. The
road upgrading program will improve their living conditions by reducing the time and
inconvenience of travel.
E. RISKS AND SAFEGUARDS
5.12         The main risk facing the project is that of delays in implementation due to the
scarcity of trained staff. This risk would be minimized through the use of short-term technical
advisers to provide specialized inputs, careful monitoring, and training. LTD, for example, has
adequate engineering capacity, but uses advisers to good advantage to perform environmental and
economic analyses. The Organizational Study of the Division of Environment would indicate the
ways in which short-term expertise and training programs can speed the integration of
environment with economic planning staff and their collaboration with other participating groups.
5.13         Among implementing agencies, SIF would need to strengthen its management
capability to the greatest degree. The risk of inadequate management of SIF programs would be
mitigated by the appointment of an Executive Director of SIF, and by the hiring with GEF funds
of two scientists with managerial experience over the span of two years. The hiring of two
people allows a permanent presence of one SIF representative on Aldabra, as the two scientists
would alternate between Aldabra and Mahe.



33
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1           At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
a.     By December 31, 1993, legislation will have been approved banning the
trade in endangered sea turtles and turtle products (para. 3.11);
b.     MEPER will keep adequate records and accounts of project activities,
including those undertaken by all implementing ministries and agencies,
and will have the accounts for each fiscal year audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.25);
c.    The records and accounts of SIF and PUC covering all activities for each
fiscal year will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.25);
d.    Budgetary allocations at least equal in real terms to the approved 1992
operating budget will be maintained through fiscal year 1996 for the
Division of Environment, MEPER with regard to its total expenditure
and for LTD with regard to its operating budget and allocations for road
maintenance (paras. 4.2, 4.13);
e.     DCA would ensure that periodic adjustments are made in charges for
landing of aircraft at Praslin airport so that the revenues of the airport
are at least equal to its operating costs (para 4.15);
f.    By December 31, 1993, government will have effected the transfer to
PUC of all water assets presently owned by government (para. 3.5,
4.11);
g.    PUC would ensure that, for its Praslin/La Digue water operations, (i) its
working ratio is not higher than 85 percent by the end of 1994 and 70
percent by the end of 1995; (ii) unaccounted-for water is reduced to 18
percent by the end of 1993 and maintained thereafter; and (iii)
receivables do not exceed 60 days of sales for domestic, commercial, and
government accounts by the end of 1993 (para. 4.11);
h.    PUC would ensure that its Praslin/La Digue water operations yield a
return on net fixed assets in operation of at least 2 percent by 1995. It
will submit annual financial forecasts such that this objective is met, and
will take all other measures including tariff increases to achieve this
result (para. 4.11); and
i.    A Mid-Term Review focusing on EMPS implementation as a whole
would be carried out prior to December 31, 1994. Among other topics,
the review would cover: (a) the overall managerial efficiency and
performance of SIF; (b) progress in sea turtle management plans in
relation to the outcome of stock assessment, the Hawksbill turtle
ranching study, and the turtle trade compensation study; (c) review of the



34
financial performance of the PUC Praslin/La Digue office with regard to
adequacy of water tariffs, revenue and expenditure, and timetable for
meeting the target rate of return on net fixed assets; and (d) the impact
on the Praslin economy and environment of basic infrastructure
investments in water supply, road rehabilitation, and airport
improvements. For purposes of the Mid-Term Review, the government
would prepare a report on the progress of implementation, with emphasis
on the above-mentioned issues, by one month prior to the Mid-Term
Review at the latest. (para 3.33).
6.2          The following are conditions of loan effectiveness:
a.    Appointment in MEPER of a National Coordinator for implementation
of the EMPS (para 3.3);
b.    Signature of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the government and
PUC for implementation of the Praslin Water Supply, Phase II program
(para. 2.13); and
6.3          The following conditions of disbursement of funds against related expenditure
would also apply:
For the Resource Management Program (Marine Resources Management Plans):
-     Signature of a Memorandum of Understanding between MEPER and SFA for
supervision of the Marine Resources Management Plans (para. 3.7).
For the Resource Management Program (Praslin Water Supply. Phase Inl:
* Completion of an assessment of the possible impacts of proposed works on the
Vallee de Mai National Park (para. 3.5).
For the Transport Program (Praslin Road Improvement Program):
*     Appointment in LTD  of a full-time representative on Praslin island for
management of the Praslin road rehabilitation program (Para. 3.14).
For the Transport Program (Praslin Airport Improvements):
*     Increase in charges for landing of aircraft at Praslin airport to SR 30 per 1,000
kg of permissible weight or part thereof (para. 4.15).
6.4          With the assurances and conditions indicated above, the project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$4.5 million to the Government of Seychelles.



ANNEXE S






35                                 Annex I
Page 1 of 8
ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PLAN OF SEYCHIELE:
PROGRESS ON IMPLEMENTATION
A. BACKGROUND
The Government of Seychelles has committed itself for several decades to achieving
a balance between development and environmental preservation. There is a strong awareness that
the foundations of the nation's economy, fishing and tourism, depend to a large extent on the
achievement of a sustainable development program.
When the Government was preparing the National Development Plan for 1990-94 it
decided to prepare a complementary but distinct Environmental Management Plan for the Seychelles
(EMPS) to cover the period to 2000. The completed EMPS was reviewed in depth at a Technical
Seminar, revised and then presented at a Donors' Meeting sponsored by the Bank, UNDP and UNEP
held at the Bank's Paris Office in February 1991. Pledges totalling US$40 million were secured from
bilateral donors, NGOs and multilateral agencies.
Environmental management in the Seychelles was the responsibility until 1992 of the
Department of the Environment in the Office of the President. In May 1992, DOE was merged with
the Ministry of Planning and External Relations to become the Ministry of Environment, Economic
Planning and External Relations (MEPER). This gives the environment a central position in national
economic planning.
The unique ecosystems and endemic species of Seychelles attract significant world
interest and are an important global resource. There are, for instance, said to be 150,000 giant
tortoises on Aldabra compared with only 10,000 on the more widely known Galapagos Islands.
Seven National Parks have been established along with three special reserves, including two World
Heritage Sites and these include 43% of the total land area of the country and 23,000 hectares of
surrounding reefs and lagoons. National Parks are areas set aside for the propagation, protection and
preservation of wildlife or objects of unusual interest and they include S marine national parks. Two
of these areas, Aldabra Atoll and Vallee de Mai on Praslin are protected under international law as
unique natural sites of world importance. Three islands - Aride, Cousin and Aldabra are special
nature reserves where flora and fauna are protected under Seychelles law.
The Environmental Management Plan (EMPS)
The EMPS consists of two volumes: a main report containing the Plan and a second
volume containing the Investment Program with project profiles. The Plan volume is divided into
four parts. Part 1 comprises a general introduction which reviews past policies and performance,
summarizes the Government's development strategy (detailed in the National Development Plan, NDP
1990-94) and presents the five main goals for sustainable development:
*     To protect the health and quality of life for all Seychellois



36                                  Amex I
Page 2 of 8
*     To ensure that future economic development proceeds on an equitable and
sustainable basis
*     To preserve natural heritage and biological diversity
*     To improve our decision making, laws and institutional framework for
sustainable development
*     To increase public information and understanding of the essential linkages
between environment and development
Part II of the Plan presents the environmental issues and priorities for action under
7 main headings: human health and environment; natural resources; natural heritage and biological
diversity; decision making, laws and institutions; information, education and training; international
cooperation and management plans for key policy areas.
Part III of Volume 1 contains the details of the management plans (programmes) and
the projects they include, as follows:
Environmental guidelines and assessment (5 projects)
Pollution Monitoring and control (7 projects)
Land Management (3 projects)
Water management (6 projects)
Energy policies and conservation (2 projects)
National Parks and wildlife conservation (9 projects)
Forest Management (3 projects)
C oastal environment management (4 projects)
Marine resources management (4 projects)
Environmental law and enforcement (1 project)
Environmental information, education and training (4 projects)
A complete listing of all projects in the EMPS with a ranking by priority assigned
by the Government was incorporated into the Plan and is reproduced as Appendix 1 of this Annex.
Part IV of the Plan covers the implementation of the Plan and deals specifically with
the institutional, manpower and financial implications.
Volume 2 is a document of some 160 pages containing briefs for the 52 projects for
which funding was sought. Of the 59 projects included in the EMPS, financing had already been
obtained for 7 projects and these were therefore excluded from the EMPS investment program in
Volume 2. All projects in the EMPS are included in the NDP 1990-94 except for project A5 on
climate warming and sea level rise.
The general opinion of the outside experts who attended the Technical Seminar was
that the EMPS represents a solid achievement. Reviewers found that the EMPS had done a good job
of identifying inconsistencies, overlaps and gaps in the government's planning and management of



37                                 Annex I
Page 3 of 8
the environment. The EMPS was found to have a high degree of internal consistency, and it was felt
that the planned investment program was realistic and could be financed without a significant increase
in the Government's debt burden.
The principal concerns that arose had to do with the Government's ability to
implement the Plan in particular with regard to staffing, operations, evaluation, enforcement and
public involvement. At the donors' Conference some raised concerns about the recurrent costs of
financing projects and the institutional capacity of the implementing agencies. The Government
confirmed that it had estimated the recurrent costs of projects in the EMPS wherever possible. These
would normally be borne by the Government as their contribution to the project costs. They also
confirmed their commitment to cost recovery as evidenced by their request for an IBRD project
incorporating improved cost recovery mechanisms in the water and sanitation sectors.
During the Donors' Meeting, the donors generally did not pledge specific amounts
for the financing of the EMPS but rather indicated interest in specific projects or sub-sectoral
programs in the EMPS. Based on these indications, a total of US$40 million, about 75 % of the total
investment program, was pledged, although only $6 million was actually committed. Thirty-two
projects received support and about one third of the pledged amount represented grant or concessional
financing. Following the meeting, the Government undertook a series of follow-up contacts with key
donors to confirm the pledges and discuss financing terms.
B. PRESENT STATUS
Progress To Date
In the eighteen months since the Donors' Meeting some progress has been made but
there is much more to be done. Meetings have been held with donors to attract additional funding,
some firm commitments have been obtained for specific projects, staff have been added to the
Department of the Environment (DOE), the Department itself has been incorporated into the new
Ministry of Environment, Economic Planning and External Relations, and changes in the political
culture of the country as it moves towards political pluralism open the way to a larger role for the
public in environmental decision making.
Appendix 2, prepared by MEPER, shows the status of each project, the availability
of financing, the sources of financing, and the state of implementation. As can be seen from this
appendix, there are now commitments covering all or part of 20 projects out of the 51 proposed to
the donors, and 11 projects are currently underway. Pledges have been made for another 19 projects,
although no firm agreements have yet been signed. Most of the remaining projects are being
considered for financing although no prior commitment has been made. Two projects have so far
elicited little interest (A4, annual sustainable development audits and B3, centralized vehicle testing
facilities) and are expected to be dropped. Total commitmnents now amount to some SR 136.62
million (US$ 27.3 million). Of this amount, about SR 24 million (US$ 4.8 million) has actually been
secured.
Appendix 3 is an updated version of the Implementation Schedule for the EMPS
investment program prepared by MEPER in July 1992. It reflects the status described above.



38                                  Annex I
Page 4 of 8
Since the EMPS is being implemented through a number of differently financed
projects, the coordination and monitoring of these activities is an important issue. A mechanism has
been established for coordinating the implementation of the EMPS through the Environment Steering
Committee, which meets monthly under the chairmanship of the Minister of MEPER. The
monitoring has already been commenced by MEPER but it will become a more onerous task in time
and its continuance needs to be assured despite staff changes. Planning for the implementation of the
EMPS needs to go further by identifying the key constraints such as staffing that will have to be met
in a timely fashion to maintain progress.
MEPER has established a computerized data bank to keep track of the implementation
of the EMPS projects and those of the National Development Plan (NDP). This is updated regularly
after the monthly meeting of the Environment Steering Committee. A full printout of the progress
on all the projects in the EMPS Investment Program is prepared quarterly.
Present Implementation Capacity
Although the Government has been very active in searching for funds, there has been
understandable concern among the donors about the actual implementation capacity that can be
mobilized to carry out the EMPS. In a country of some 70,000 people it is possible to have an
unusually clear picture of who is actually available to do what specific job. The Government has
completed a Manpower Study (National Manpower Plan of the Seychelles, 1990 - 1994) and is now
in the final stages of completing a Human Resources Development Plan for 1992-96. This is
expected to be published in September 1992 and should provide the context within which a human
resources plan for implementation of the EMPS can be developed.
Some advances have been made in staffing the higher-level positions in the
Department of the Environment. Most environment specialists now function as a Division in
MEPER, as shown in Annex 3. There is now a Director in place for each of the units and additional
staff will be sought for 1993 (2 for the Conservation Section, 6 for the Environmental Assessment
and Pollution Control (EA & PC) Section; and 16, including 12 field workers, for the Forestry
Section). A request for 2 additional Inspectors is also being submitted for the EA&PC Section.
In the entire Environment Division there are only about a dozen graduate positions,
and several of these have heavy administrative loads to carry as Directors or Assistant Directors. Of
the senior professionals actually in place, three are Seychellois and the rest are expatriates. There
are few likely candidates available locally for professional positions in the Environment Division, if
any, although with the recent liberalization policies there is a possibility that some might return to
the country. Some polytechnic graduates are available but their level of education is barely that of
the English 'A Level" high school graduation. In general, for the foreseeable future, additional
professional staff can be found at the senior levels only through further use of imported expatriates.
This lack of Seychellois is even more critical at a time when those that are in Government may be
tempted to enter the private sector.
The consolidation of the Environment Department as a Division into the new MEPER
is a significant and important step which offers great potential for innovative approaches to the
integration of environment in national economic planning. It has also, unfortunately, meant a down-
grading of the formal responsibility levels of staff, which during the transition has been damaging



39                                   Annex 1
Page 5 of 8
to their morale. Already the NDP contains all but one of the EMPS project proposals and these are
receiving much of the attention among the 500 or so that are included in the NDP. This opportunity
to develop new synergies for effective and sustainable development of the Seychelles environment
within MEPER is rare and challenging.
Projects Proposed for GEF and Bank Support
Among the EMPS projects are four that are being proposed for support by the Global
Environment Facility under the title of Biodiversity Protection and Abatement of Marine Pollution.
These projects are:
*     G6    Rehabilitation of Aldabra World Heritage Site
*     G7    Eradication of Feral Goats from Aldabra Atoll
*     J 1    Protection of Endangered Sea-turtles.
*     B6    Implementation of International Convention for the Prevention of
Pollution from Ships
Actions to be undertaken under these projects are described more fully in Annexes
4, 5 and 6 below.
EMPS projects that are included in the Environment and Transport Project are:
*     ES    Praslin Water Supply - Phase II
-     E6    Assessment of Water Resources and Preparation of Water
Management Plans
*     J3     Preparation of Marine Resources Management Plans
The proposed works for Praslin Water Supply lie within the Praslin National Park.
Although no significant environmental impact is expected, it is impossible to do works without some
impact and so the value of the word "significant" acquires much importance. Because of this, a
formal environmental assessment will be done to confirm that the minimal works proposed, mostly
on the site of existing facilities, will not significantly affect the Park. The assessment should also
confirm that there are no lower cost alternatives to the proposed pumping scheme.
C. OUTSTANDING ISSUES
The main issues raised in the donors' reviews of the EMPS were related to the
implementation capacity of the Government in view of its limited staff. Staffing, organization,
legislation, enforcement and public support for environmental issues were highlighted as possible
limitations on successful implementation of the EMPS. Some progress has been made on addressing
these but much remains to be done.



40                                   Annex I
Page 6 of 8
Operational Capacity
Although MEPER is relatively well equipped and organized, the capacity to supervise
and administer such a comprehensive program as the EMPS is severely limited by the scarcity of
trained Seychellois. There is already a very heavy dependence on expatriate experts, not only as
advisers but also in senior line management positions such as Director of Planning and Director of
the Environmental Assessment and Inspection bureau. There appears to be no other means of
increasing or even maintaining the high level technical staff at this point. There is very little
possibility that visiting technical experts can be allocated a counterpart for full-time training or
assistance. The availability of suitable local candidates for higher technical positions in the Division
will not increase significantly in the foreseeable future, and the contracts of several key expatriates
expire within the next year. This provides a severe constraint on the sustainability of operations
throughout the technical services in the Government.
This leads to a significant consideration which is the appropriate role of the
Environment Division. Since it is impossible for the Division as it exists to do all that needs to be
done under the EMPS as well as to establish its role firmly in the Government, because of a lack of
people, there may have to be some creative thinking about what tasks the Division and Ministry must
undertake and those it could delegate to other organizations or to the private sector. Several examples
in Seychelles of partnerships for environmental conservation can be drawn upon. Bird Island, for
instance, has been managed privately since 1968 with considerable success in the controlled
development of tourism and as a bird sanctuary. The Government has leased Aldabra atoll to the
Seychelles Island Foundation (SIF), which is responsible for its supervision, operation and protection.
SIF is supported by several institutions from Europe and the US, but has been having difficulty
maintaining the research station in good condition.
The Organizational Study of the Environment Division, which is expected to begin
in October 1992, would determine the most effective means of maintaining coordination and
monitoring the progress of the EMPS as a whole. One of the most important elements of this study
will be the preparation of a ten-year human resource development plan. The capacity of Environment
Division staff is stretched with day-to-day demands, which leaves little time for EMPS
implementation. The staffing plan will support not only the EMPS but also the ongoing (and rapidly
increasing) additional responsibilities of the Environment Division. It should also cover the staff
functions in the Ministry that are required for the overall monitoring of EMPS activities being carried
on outside the Ministry, such as the functions of the National Coordinator recommended below and
in Annex 2.
The Organizational Study would also identify those tasks which do not need to be
carried out by the Ministry but which could be done by other agencies or by the private sector. It
is important, however, that the needs of these other agencies involved in the implementation of the
EMPS also be identified. It is unreasonable to expect substantial support from others unless they are
allocated the necessary resources to do the additional tasks. The staffing plan would build on and
would be an extension of the present Government-wide plan being prepared under the aegis of the
Ministry of Administration and Manpower and due to be released in October 1992. The staffing plan
would be reviewed every year in the Ministry and revised as necessary.



41                                  Annex I
Page 7 of 8
Legislation
In Seychelles, there is a wealth of legislation affecting the enviromnent, much of it
concerning area and species protection. Some 46% of the total land area has been designated as
national parks, reserves, or special areas, and a further 228 kln2 of marine areas have been designated
as marine national parks. Although the protection framework is largely in place, more detailed
legislation is often lacking on the specific activities permitted and proscribed in the protected areas,
on enforcement measures, and on sanctions that can be imposed. A comprehensive draft of a
Conservation and National Parks Act was prepared by a consultant based on an external model, but
this is being further improved in order to better reflect Seychelles conditions. At present, another
consultant is drafting legislation to apply the regulation making environmental assessments mandatory
for investment projects. The legislation will be reviewed by the Environment Division and
subsequently by the Attorney General's office prior to enactment.
There is scope for some innovative approaches to environmental legislation. MEPER
is now the main executive for conservation policy and responsible for the creation and management
of all protected areas apart from Aldabra, Aride and Cousin islands. Aride and Cousin are owned
and managed as Special Nature Reserves by the Royal Society for Nature Conservation (RSNC) and
the International Council for Bird Preservation (ICBP) respectively. Bird Island has been owned and
successfully managed privately as a bird sanctuary since 1969. The population of sooty-terns has
significantly increased on Bird Island in the intervening years. Successful alternatives to control by
Government regulation and staff have therefore been established.
Public Participation
The awareness of the importance of sustainable development to the Seychelles
environment has been increasing rapidly at all levels. There is now a "green" public awareness group
in the Seychelles called the Seychelles Environment Lobby. Until the recent liberalization, however,
there was little opportunity for general public participation in decision-making at the project approval
level. A process of active campaigning for political parties is now under way and this should lead
to a wider involvement of citizens in development decisions.
The success of the EMPS in the long run will in fact depend on the degree of public support
there is for it and its activities. Every opportunity should be taken to encourage the involvement of
the public, in part because environmental measures that are designed in accordance with the wishes
of the affected public will be supported by them and as a result the need for government enforcement
will be lessened. Peer pressure is much more effective than Government inspection and control.
The importance of environmental education in this context cannot be overemphasized.
A top priority of any developing environment agency should be the environmental education of the
children. Once they are sensitized they will help ensure the long-term sustainability of environmental
programs in both the public and private sectors.



42                                  Amex I
Page 8 of 8
D. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The EMPS is beginning to get underway. Thirteen projects are fully funded, another
4 projects have start-up funding, and 11 projects have actually started. The total number of proposals
in the EMPS Investment Program was 51. Seven other projects in the Plan were already financed
and not included in the Investment Program. There is much more to be done, however, and the
Government has been working hard to have the donors' pledges turn into committed funds. The
workload from environmental matters is increasing exponentially from a rather high platform created
by the recent flurry of international activities and by the need to implement the EMPS and to prepare
and enforce new improved legislation.
Organizational Study of Division of Environment
This study, originated by the former DOE, is a top priority of the Government,
especially now that questions of interaction between environment specialists and economic planners
can be handled within a single ministry (MEPER). A consulting firm to undertake the study has been
selected, and the study is expected to begin in October 1992. A 5-10 year staffing plan for the
Division and a training and recruitment program are among the outputs expected from this study.
Early adoption of its recommendations would be critically important to the successful implementation
of the EMPS.
Innovative Approaches to Management of the Environment
It is recommended that an innovative approach be taken to the management of the
environment through the Organizational Study and through other actions of the Government. In a
country with such limited human resources it is appropriate to maximize the utilization of available
personnel, be they in the Government, in parastatals or in the private sector. At the same time as
recognizing the need for Government to have a considerably expanded staff to deal with the increased
volume of environmental work, it is also important to focus on the most appropriate and crucial role
for the Government to play, while identifying alternative means for implementation of the less
significant or more easily delegated activities that might be carried out by others under the
supervision of the Government.
Establishment of a National Coordinator for Implementation of the EMPS
The scope and complexity of the EMPS is such that it has recently been taking a substantial
portion of the time of a MEPER Senior Economist and an Assistant. The work load continues to
grow as the EMPS gets underway, and it is therefore recommended that this need be established on
an official footing by the appointment of a National Coordinator for the EMPS. The position would
be filled for a year by an expatriate economist who would train a Seychellois assistant to take over
after that year has elapsed. It is hoped that the present Senior Economist can stay to fill this role and
that he will be able to complete the training of the staff that he now has assisting him. Funding
required is estimated to be about US$90,000 for the expatriate including overheads and about SR
4,400 a month for the Assistant with an eventual salary of about SR 5,300 a month for the
Seychellois National Coordinator. Terms of reference and justification for the National Coordinator
are given in Annex 2 below.



43
Annex 1. ApDndix 1
Page 1 of 3
PRIORITY RANRING FOR EMPS PROJECTS
(As shown in Figure IIT-1 of the EMS Vol I).
Code 0  designates projects which are already under
implementation or about to start.
Code 1  designates projects which bear a first priority,
either because they aim at addressing an urgent
environmental problem, such as Victoria sewage
treatment works (project Cl), or because their
completion is a prerequisite for the implementation
of other projects and programmes, as is the case for
the coastal environment baseline study (project 12.).
Code 2  designates projects which, although bearing an
intrinsic priority, cannot be initiated before other
priority I projects have been completed or are well
under way, such as the coastal zone management plans
(project 14).
Code 3  designates projects which, even though they address
an important issued, do not bear a character of real
urgency because their implementation can be phased or
* delayed without putting in jeopardy the rest of the
Plan, as is the case with sewerage network extensions
(project C2).
A double code (for example: 1/3) Indicates the respective
priorities of Phase 1 and 2 of the project.
As the activities are of such a different character, no
priorities were assigned in the Environmental Information,
Education and Training Programmes.  These projects are
nevertheless essential for success in implementing the EMPS-
90.
NOTE:     Only one of the "o" projects (CE) was included in the
EMPS Investment Program and this Study of Volbert Sewerage has
been completed.



44
AnneC 1. AROendxr 1
Page 2 of 3
mnvironmental Management Plan for Seychelles
Figure 111-1   priority Ranking for EMPS Projects.
priority Ranking
A. Environmental Guidelines and Assessment Progr-ame
2    A.1 State of Environment Reports
I    A.2 Prepare and Apply Environmental Guidelines
1    A.3 Environmental Assessment Procedures
3    A.4 Conduct-Annual Sustainable Development Audits
3    A.5 Impact Assessment of Climate Warming and Sea Level Rise
B. Pollution Monitoring and Control programme
1    B.1 Set Standards for Air And Water Quality, and Noise
Pollution
1    B.2 Pollution monitoring, Control and Advisory Service
2    B.3 Improvement of Vehicle Tests and Testing Facilities
1    B54 Control of Toxic or Potentially Hazardous Chemicals
I    B..5 Contingency Plan for Marine Pollution from Ships
1    B.6 Implementation of International Convention for the
Prevention of Pollution from Ships
I    B.7 Control Programme for off-shore Oil Drilling
C. Waste Management programme
1    C.1 Greater Victoria Sewerage Project - Phase II
3    C.2 Greater Victoria Sewerage Project - Phase III
1/3 C.3 Beau Vallon Bay Sewerage Project
1'   C.4 Roche Caiman Sewerage Project
213 C.5 Anse aux Pins - Anse Royale Sewerage Study
1    C.7 Treatment of Waste Oil
O    C.6 Anse Volbert Sewerage Project
1    C.8 Solid Waste Treatment Plant and Plan for Mah6
3    C.9 Dispose of sludge from Victoria Power Station
3    C.10 Study of Improved Sewage Disposal for Dispersed Homes and
Small Villages
3    C.ll Feasibility Study for Regional Management of
Hazardous Wastes
D. Land Management Programme
O    D.1 "Plan d'Am&nagement du Territoire"
1    D.2 Strengthening of Planning Act and Building Regulations
3    D.3 Soil Fertility Conservation and Improvement
E. Water Management Programme
1    E.1 Mahe Integrated Water Supply Development Plan
1    E.2 Mahe Water Distribution
1    E.3 Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Le Niol Treatment Works
O    E.4 La Digue Water Supply
1.   E.5 Praslin Water Supply - Phase II
3    E.6 Assess Water Resources and Prepare Water Management Plans



45
Anner 1. C end  1
Page 3 of 3
Eavxironmental Management Plan for Seychelles
Priority Ranking
F. Energy Policy and Conservation Program-m
I    F.1 Energy Conservation Programme
3    F.2 Feasibility Study on Introduction of Lead Free Gas
G. National Parks and Wildlife Conszat ion Progrpmme
3/1 G.1 Wildlife Inventories and Protection of Endangerod Species
3    G.2 Control the. Import and Export of Plants and Animals
I    G.3 Control of Pesticides
I    G.4 Rehabilitation of Curieuse National Park
1    G.5 Improvement of National Marine Parks
1    G.6 Rehabilitation of Aldabra World Heritage Site
I    G.7 Eradication of Feral Goats from Aldabra Atoll
3    G.8 Upgrading the National Botanical Garden
3    G.9 National Parks and Wildlife Service
2    G.10 Conservation Strategy and National Parks Management Plans
E. Forests Management Programme
2.   H.1 Preservation of Endemic Tree Species
2    H.2 Forest Fire Contingency Plan
I    H.3 Preparation and Implementation of National Forest
Management Plan
I. Coastal Environment Management Programme
2    1.1 Coastal and Marine Environment Baseline Study
1    1.2 Beach Erosion Control
2.   I.3 Alternatives to Reduce Sand Use in Construction
2    1.4 Review of Coastal Zone Management Plans
J. Marine Resources Management Programme
2    J.1 Protection of Endangered Sea Turtles
0    J.2 Strengthening of Fisheries Surveys and Assessments
3    J.3 Marine Resources Management Plans
K. Environmental Law and Enforcement Programme
1    K.1 Revision of Environmental Legislation
L. Environmental Information, Education and Training
Programmes
L.1 Environmental Documentation Centre and Information System
L.2 Increase Public Information and Participation on
Environment
L.3 Expand Environmental Education
L.4 Expand Environmental Training



46                                  Annex 1 ADDendix 2
Page 1 of2 2
Imnlementation and Financine Status
for EMPS Projects
?kO;cT  TiTLE                      tOTAL FuT. SrJDT       FUNDS    0000O1     TOCs          00NOR        S    PROIECT
PIOJ.COST   COST    SECUIED  SECU5ED IDEITIFIED   [DEITIFIED  IECOLE  STILTED
A.E5.GUIE1DlYS/ASSESS.PIOG.  31 0005
AI.STAT  OF EYVI1ONMEET LEPOITS         1200                 1I!  F?ICE                                     11      '
A.I*E?A?PP?Y EST.GaIDELINES               260                400  FACE                                     112
A!.EXV.iSSESSKEIT PtOCEDUIES            1520                I150  FTICE                                   1
AA.ANUCAL SUS.DEV.UO01vr                  260                   0                    0       MONE            0
A  I.MPACT ASSESI.CLIVAZE *AIN.          64!                    0                  614       GEr             0
TOTAL A. PICCLNMME                      4015                2055                   645
B.POLL'MOT ' OOiT/CoNrI.PIOG
*   9.SAY0AiiS Aii/IATI/YOISE            230                2S0   N.D?                                   100
32.POL;OtIOX XOMITOIING/CONTIOL           I0                   0                  130       ADi             0
33-7EiCL.E  E          CIN LG C[LITIES   1500                  0                     0        NOE           0
BS.CONTROL TOZIC sUnSTAIC!S              410
3!.COIT.PLAN  NAI.POL(NAT.ACTION        1915                 160   ICOD          1500         CS            9
N6. [1t .COP.*A1POL(?USEfj                440                440    GEF                                   100
87.CONTROL OIL DRILLING                 1630                   0                                            0
TOTAL s. POGRANE                        Ci71                 050                  16ao
C.7ASTi, VAXANENT ?IOGIAXXE
Cl.G75- ?ASc *1                        05000      7500      1500    AiD         35000        ADI          100 L
C2.GVS? PSASE III                      59,50                    0                                           0
C.E3ZAU VALLOI SE2iAGZ                 41500      2500      2300   CCC!         45300        CCC!         100      '
C4.IOCEE CAIXAN SETEIJGE                9000                   0                             IONE           0
CS.?[NSZ/OYALZ SET. WMT         5        100                   0                 3500        iDS            0
C6.VOL3ElT S-7EElAGE S,C0t             17100       263       269   CCC! 
CItSOLID TASTE T1EiANENT               27000       200       500   CCC!         27000    CCCE/ADI         100      *
C9.D[iS?OSE OF SLtUGE                                60       60  SPAIN
CIO.SEtiG-c DIS?OSAL D[5?.S0OES         1550                   0                             WNOE
Cl I.NAq.AG-EYT tOlIC TASTE              1900                   0                            NONE
TOTAL C. Pl0G2AINE                    200000    10629    10625                 11100
E.TATER XAliGEXEY, PlOGLANKE
El-LE NIOL tiEi,XEY, 1011               6000                   I                 6000   CDCIIERD
ES.PiAS;;Y  7A, i SUPPLY                 150                    0                 Il0   1iBR/GZU
E2.7ATE1 0ANAGEXNT PL?LS                4250                   0                 42.    IIUD
TOTAL E. PDUGIANM!                     11100                                    11100
T.E;-EIrfT COXSEIVATIDN p?oGiAiNE
FI.E2XElG7 CONSE1VA,[0N                 Ilia                    0                1350   ONIDO/JAmAN
FIZStUOY LEAD "ISE GAS                               60       60   SPAIN
TOTAL F.PIOGAN.XE                       1250         60       60                 1150
G.lAT.PAiKS CONSEIVATION P1OG.
GI.11LOLIFE [NTEY11TOIES                2640                                      1200   ICIP/EC
G3.lIPOZT PLANTS/A(iNALS                 1040                   0                 1040       ADI
C3.CO01T.OL Of PESTICIDES                 425                 125    TAO                                   100



47
Annexc 1. ApendIX 2
Page 2 of 2
G41E1AB.CUMiEUSE XAT.PAZI               110                                      1110   !WCE
GIA.IPIOVE NAIINE PAIlS                   400                 400    IC                                    i0
G6.ZEUA./iLD&IU                          1760                                     170       du
GM.ERAD.FELAL GOATS ALDitA               1401                                     1401       6
GJ.OPGLDE BOTANICAL GAIUES                3SO                 100    CCT                                     9
09.01ATOYAL PAItS lILDLlFE SEIN         308S                 1081    IC                                   LO
GIGoCONSeIVATION STrUTeG!                 310                 350    IC                                    100
.....-..-..... .... ...... . . .. __________ _-              ............                                  - - ---
TOTAL G.PROGLLMME                      1333t                 4360                 7381
M.FOIESTS  AJ&GEMERI  PIOGUXNNE
II.PIESEIVAT[OX EXOEXIC TIEES            160                    l                    0       IONE
II.FOIEST FIRE PLAN                      40                0                         0 
1.NATIONAL FOIEST PLAN                    320       320           ADl/FlU                                 tOO
TOTAL l. PIOGRANME                       1460       320         0                    0
I.COASTAL XANAGEXENT PIOGiUXE
[i.COASTAL BASELINE STUD!                MD0                    0                            EC
II.BEICH ElOS[ON CONTROL                4000                    0                            eC
[i.iATEgrIAVTES TO SAND USE              330                    0                             IC
14.COASTAL ZONe NANAGENEIr               320                    0                            IC
-- ------------------- ----_        .... ....... . ... .. .......... ....... . ... . . .. . .
t,OTAL I.P1001AMME                      JJ50                    0
I.MARINE IESOU2CES PtOG2ANNE
JI.P2OTECTION OF SEA TUtTLES            1100                5800    GEt                                   100
,1.XA!INE RESOURCES YMAAGEXEIT          1810                                      1120       11WD
TOTAL 1.21CGIAHME                       7620                s100                  1820
X.ENVIXONMENTAL LAW PIOGZXME
KI.ENVIIRCNENTAL LEGISLATION            1340                  160*.  DOP         1340   10ClIF&O
TOTAL I.PKOGMYME                        1340                  160                 1340
L.EDUCATIONITIAMNING PIOGXWE
LI.D0C.CEM1TRE/INFO.SYSTEN               S60                  100   ACC?                 CRC/ACCT          18       '
L2.PUILIC INFOtIAtION                  2U00                     0                        CFTC/ICCT
L3.ENV.EDUCATION                        6600                    0                        CRC/ICCT
L4.EXV.TIAEXIXG                         4200                    0                        CTC/Iccr
5 1      TOTAL L.AIOGRAXME                       17720                 100
Grar.d Total                           319,255             23,994               136,620                          11
NOTES:                                                        (13%)                (42%)
PROIECTS CI;C3JC8 STUDT COSTS FULLY SECaLED
PRO!ECTS GC;G9;GI0 SCIEDULED FOL INPLI.EEITAION SEPTERIER 1992



UPS - Investment Provaue: Implementation Schedule
Prograumes and Project Titles                |  1991         1992   |   1993   |  1994         1995   [  1996         1997       1998       1999   [  2000
1.  Jnviro umetal CGIuideines ad JJUJUUt
A.1 State of Savlrouuent leports                                                    1-1        1-1               1-1            1-1
1.2 PrepAre sad Appl Iy hironwctal CGidellneo                                     I-I         I-I        I-1
1.3 hnireometal JAseasseat Procedures                                 1-          1-i'        I-I        I -_I      j          j      I    1.....I _  l    l
1.4 Conduct Jiurnal Sustainable beolopmeat Audits                                 I-I         I_I
1.5 lmpset Assessment of Climate  ar lngl amd
Sea LoieJ  e                                                                    -         1-) IiI s                   I    I-  I-I   I-                     -IJ
1.  Pollution u oiltorimg and Cootrol Proraueu
1.1 Set Staaudajdo for lir u d Mater Quality amd
Mole Polltion                                                      -                         I                  I-    I-I
5.2 pollution 1o1itorlat, Control ald Adviu ry
Sof niJec                                                                     I_I                    I-_   I1-I I             
1.3 lpioveeat of Vehlew  Telt. and Testlag
hIellities
1.4 Coottol of fozIc or Pot otiir al    utardo u
Ceicnal.                                                                                 I-I _                            I-I
1.5 Cotillgemcy Plam for hriu PollItlen frog
1.6 lnpleomestiom of lit. CuWintion
Preenstiom of Ship Polltlom                                                  I-I
1.7 Cowttol Pr.trau for off-siho, rillilg                             1-1   1-1    1-1               I-   I-I  -  I                        -1   I-I   JI_
40k



Progranues and Project TitJs|  1991   [   1992                        1993   |_1994   |  1995         1996   | 997         1998   |  1999   |  2000
C.  Vista Hanagnent Pro  rane
C.l Greater Victoria Severage Project - Phase 11                          1         -              -_
C.2 Greater Victoria Severage Project - Phase 111
C. 3 Beau Vallon  ay Severage Project                              I_
C.4 Roche  Caiman Severagte Project                             1
C.5 Ansne lu Pins - Anse loyal. Severage Study
C.6 mane Volbert Severate Project
C.8 Solid Waste Treatment Plant and Plan for
Mahe                                                         1-I
C.9 Dispose of Sludge from Victoria Pover
Station                                              I-I
CNJO Study on Improved Seavae Disposal for DiJp.
Hones and Villagss
C.l JeaJibJJJty Study for Regional Hanagonent
of huArdous Wastes
t. Mater uaneosment Programme
1.3 lehabllitatlos and Uptrading of L  tlol Ro                                                       I
Treatment Morks
1.5 Pranlim Mater SUpply - Phanie                                              I    J
1.6 AOees U  ater leoemrcee and  romre Miater
ama geat Ples.                                                                          I             I
F.  mangy Policy Ad Conaueratlom Progtamme
7.1  nergy ConurvatIon Programn                                             1                            j     1-1
1.2 feasibility Study on Introduction of Lead                                                                                                                          '4'0
free Gas



Prograume and Project Titles                   1991        1992        1993   |_1994   |  1995   [  1996          1997       1995   [  1999   |  2000
C.  Natloau  harka Ad vildilfe Cumtrvatlom
Pro grime
.l  lldllfe Imvetoj1ea aid Protectlos of
lrte 1dA. gered Specieo                                            I- _                                                  -         -           -        1-I
C.2 Cbntrol tie Import aid Export of Plaita
and Amlials
0.3 Cootrol of ttotlelhes                                   I _
0.4 Ietbilltatlei of Culeu u     atloul Park
C.5 ISlprovemat of  tlmal  Prks                                                I-u
G.6 tt abIJtatlou of AJdabra VoeJd henJtage
Site                                                                     I
C.1 Indicatliu  of heral Couts frao Aldabra
Ln
Atoll                                                                                                                                                                    0
C.8 UJpnradimg tbo hatlornal )otauical Cardes                         I-
C.9 latlonal Parka and ViJdilfe Service                               I                1  I          j          I           I        I-I         I-      I     I
0.10 Couservatloa Stategi aid hatioaul Parts
Naagenent Plas                                                  I           I
E.  Forests  aaageuemt Pronmu w                                                                     -J
L.1 PresernatIon of  NInen   f,tt Species                                             1
1.2 Forest fire Coatlngencp Plan                                                    I _
1.3 Pie ptation, Isplenemtstleo of Jatioal                               I     I
oPreot lan gement Plan 
0
4o 8



Pro rauus aud Project Titles                  |1991 |   1992              1993        1994        1995   [196 |  1997i              1998   |  1999   |  2000
1.  Coastal Irlroaseat laaugeaeut Pro,rauu
1.1 Coastal and Marloe bairomu et Jaaellae Stodr                                       I -                                                     _I
1.2 leach frosolo  Cot tol                                                               I _
1.3 lJteraati"s to khtue Said tOe Is
Constructlio                                                                         I-_
1.4 Rtevew  of Coastal Zeo  Naiageiuat Plans
J.   a urie Resourees ham utemu  t ProfrauJ
J.  Protectlon of Wavoered Sea tmrtlos                                                I                I
J.3 Maria. l esourceu    a uemleuat Plans                                             1                1                     I                   I
I.  hrlrou atal Law aid hferceoeat Propu e
1.1 Ievisloe  of Iwiroeaut  .lgslJatloi                                            I                  I
1.  h Ireomatai b formatloo. JIdctloe  And
Tral.l., Progau s.
L.1 I El Nros tal Iebaemtatlo Centre uad
Imforutloe System                                                    -              - I-I   II                    I-              -           -          - I-
l.2 Iacreau  hblJc Jtforumatij  Aiu
Partlcipotlo em Ilromat                                                 I    I -I                     I  I    I-    I-    I-                             -    1-
L.3 lpaad IleroiJtal Idctle .---- I -                                                                                                                       -         1      I
L. lExpad haviroiueatal tra1au b-                                                                1-    1- I I                     I            1-   I-   I
-~~~~
\                                                                                                                             g ,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
.                    --   4i' i~~~~
. 4s 



52                               Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN OF SEYCHELLES (EMPS):
ESTABLISHMENT OF A NATIONAL COORDINATOR
A. BACKGROUND AND JUSTIFICATION
The accompanying review of the progress of the EMPS since the 1991 Donors'
Meeting demonstrates that the EMPS is not only a strategy for sustainable development but also
an investment program of some 51 proposed projects. For the strategy to be effectively carried
out, it is important that the investment program be adequately managed. Although many EMPS
projects are underway, a focal point for coordination, information exchange, and ultimate
accountability for the EMPS has been lacking. There is a danger that each unit assumes a
program is being carried out by someone else, with the result that no one carries it out.
Conversely, a single unit or agency, no matter how clearly defined its responsibility for the
subject in question, would need to establish channels for regular consultation or collaboration with
other interested parties.
Donors' pledges notwithstanding, very considerable efforts still need to be
expended, more than a year later, to lay hands on the funds that have been promised. The
Ministry of Environment, Economic Planning, and External Relations (MEPER) is primarily
preoccupied at present with the task of securing the remaining funding but should also be
ensuring the effective implementation of the EMPS by the various sector managers. The fact that,
with quite limited staff, it is charged with both tasks is at the heart of EMPS implementation
issues.
A significant share of the projects are being or will be managed by SFA, DOI,
SIF and other agencies. For these projects the Planning Ministry has only a minimal monitoring
role. Most of the projects will be managed by the Environment Division, but it would be useful
for MEPER to be able to overview these in the same context as those managed outside the
Ministry. Preparation of terms of reference and of short lists of consultants for studies,
recruitment of staff or advisers, transportation arrangements, and the like would be handled by
the implementing agencies. For these reasons, specific arrangements for information exchange
and consultation between the implementing unit and MEPER should be concluded.
B. NATIONAL COORDINATOR
The position of National Coordinator will be established in MEPER. The
National Coordinator will provide advice, exchange of information on progress of the EMPS in
different sectors, and supervision of implementation, but would not manage all projects. The
importance and increasingly high profile of the EMPS requires a full-time National Coordinator
to ensure that the EMPS meets the national objectives defined for it. With effective coordination
of dispersed management of EMPS projects within other agencies, the most specialized expertise
can be brought to bear on EMPS projects without overburdening one or another ministry.



53                              Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
Up to now, most of the work of coordination of the EMPS has been carried out
by the Senior Economist in the Planning Section of MEPER, together with one or two colleagues.
Few Seychellois are available at this time to fill a coordinator role of this breadth, although there
are young graduates in this ministry who are assisting the Senior Economist.
It is proposed that the Senior Economist be appointed as National Coordinator
of the EMPS for a period of 12 to 18 months. His duties will be to see to it that the EMPS is
effectively implemented.  An Assistant Coordinator will work closely with the National
Coordinator, whose job it will be to train the assistant in all aspects of this work.
It is important that this appointment not be made at the expense of other essential
work of the ministry. The Planning Section will need to be strengthened, at a mininum by the
appointment of another Senior Economist.
The duties of the National Coordinator will be as follows:
*     Assist the Government in securing external funds for EMPS projects with
realistic financing prospects
-     Prepare a monthly report on the progress of implementation of the
projects in the EMPS investment plan
-     Carry out continuous, on the job training of the Assistant so that he or
she may be able to take over as National Coordinator as soon as possible
3     Continue to advise the new National Coordinator after his or her
appointment to help ensure a smooth transition
3     Sustain adequate communication with funding agencies, Government
ministries, and other agencies to ensure their full participation in the
process of EMPS implementation
*     Where implementation responsibility lies outside the ministry, ensure
minimum monitoring of progress, it being understood however that
management responsibility for these projects lies with the implementing
bodies concerned
*     Assist the Environment Steering Committee in carrying out periodic
reviews of the EMPS investment program
*     Provide leadership and clarity of purpose in the EMPS implementation.
As for possible sources of funding of the position of National Coordinator, the
Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation (CFTC) is already funding a Senior Economist
position in the ministry. The term of this contract expires in February 1993. Although the
Government has asked for it to be extended, the contract is not likely to be renewed on the same
terms as befbre. A financing proposal for the National Coordinator position would be submitted



54                                Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
to CFTC, to take effect for the incumbent Senior Economist as from February 1993. The
importance of the position and the firmly established handing-over to a Seychellois would satisfy
specific criteria of CFTC. It is important, however, that the priority of this proposal be
established among the many other requests sent to CFTC by Seychelles.
If CFTC financing does not materialize, other grant funding would be sought.
Contact would be made, for example, with the Club of Dublin which deals with national
environmental action plans and has access to several interested donors.



55                              Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
RESTORATION AND PRESERVATION OF THE ALDABRA ECOSYSTEM
PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
A. INTRODUCTION
Aldabra, the world's largest coral atoll, is situated in the Indian Ocean some
1,200 km southeast of Mahe, the main island of the Seychelles. With a land area of 35,000 ha,
it consists of 4 main islands which encircle a central lagoon about 30 km in diameter. The
islands consist mainly of rough weathered coral rock, there is little soil and a shortage of fresh
water. Rainfall is concentrated in the period December to April, followed by an extended dry
season. Rainfall averages about 1200 mm annually, compared with 2200 mm on Mahe, with a
variation from 1500 mm down to 500 mm.
Its remoteness and inhospitable environment have afforded Aldabra a measure of
protection, as early seafarers and colonists had only moderate interest in the island. This has
resulted in Aldabra being the only largely intact island ecosystem left in the Indian Ocean,
representing what the other coral atolls were like before man arrived. In the region at various
times, at least 7 species of tortoises have been present on several Indian Ocean islands. Through
human consumption as well as environmental changes, the Aldabra population is the only one
remaining in the Indian Ocean and is one of two (with the Galapagos Islands) in the world. Its
size permits it to harbor distinct inland ecosystems with endemic plants and insects, a rarity
among coral islands. The atoll is surrounded by a rich and largely undisturbed marine
environment. There are at least 178 species of flowering plants (of which about 20% are
endemic), over 200 species of algae and nearly 1,000 species of insects, of which fully 39% are
endemic.
B. THREATS AND DISTURBANCES
Island ecosystems, due to their remoteness and the absence of large predators,
often evolve in ways which make their plants and animals especially vulnerable to introduced
species and to man. Defense mechanisms such as flight in birds or unpalatable chemicals in
plants, did not have to develop. As a result, some 74% of all bird and mammal extinctions have
been of island-dwelling species.
The growing scientific interest in Aldabra has contended with attempts at
commercial exploitation and with the introduction of non-native species. From its discovery in
the 16th century until the late 1800s, exploitation consisted mainly of crews of the occasional ship
taking some tortoises, fishing, or felling trees. Aldabra has never sustained any permanent
community of settlers, although several attempts were made during the 19th and 20th century.
In 1874, the central authorities in Mauritius planned to start a woodcutting and timber industry
on Aldabra. This idea was abandoned after Charles Darwin and other naturalists intervened with
the Governor of Mauritius. Four years later a hydrographic survey of the atoll was completed.
This marked the beginning of organized scientific research on the atoll.  Meanwhile the



56                             Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
authorities continued to grant leases for fishing, timber extraction, and the catching of green
turtles and giant tortoises. This practice continued after Seychelles was separated from Mauritius
in 1903; indeed, some leases were still in effect in 1971 when the Royal Society leased the atoll.
Beginning in the 1950s, however, the scientific interest of Aldabra has steadily grown to
dominate other interests on the atoll. The most recent, and most severe, threat to this scientific
vocation came in 1964-67, when some Western governments, led by the US, drew up plans to
turn the atoll into a strategic military installation. The controversy that this proposal brought
about was resolved in favor of conservation, and the plans were abandoned.
Threats to the Aldabra ecosystem from introduced species have been continuous
for the past hundred years, somewhat in contrast to the the episodic involvement of humans.
Goats were introduced on Aldabra in about 1880 as a source of meat. Since tortoises were taken
as food by passing ships, the tortoise population at the time was much reduced. It was therefore
possible for the goats, with a more extensive range than the tortoise, to increase in numbers.
This was at first not perceived as a problem since goats as well as tortoises would be taken by
ships passing and the populations were smaller. When the use of goats for ship supply gradually
disappeared over the past 50 years, there was no longer any constraint on growth of the goat
population.
Goats are a severe threat to the giant tortoise population of Aldabra, estimated
at some 150,000 individuals. Goats compete for food with the tortoises, but perhaps even more
importantly they destroy the trees and shrubs which the tortoises need for shade as they cannot
survive being out in the sun all day. They also prevent regeneration by eating the seedlings of
trees and shrubs.  Other impacts have included erosion of the already meager soils and
destruction of vegetation.
The isolation of the Aldabra atoll has recently been greatly reduced with the
completion of an airstrip on Assomption Island, 27 km from Aldabra. This means that Aldabra
will be much more easily accessible for tourism in the future. Indeed, some plans have already
been made to open Aldabra up for ecotourism similarly to the way this is done in the Galapagos
Islands. The opening up of Aldabra for ecotourism calls for a sound management plan to ensure
that tourism will not have a detrimental effect on the island.
C. MANAGEMENT OF RESEARCH AND CONSERVATION ON ALDABRA
Scientific work on Aldabra was first recorded in the 1 870s but has been ongoing
in several stages throughout this century. After the atoll was declared a strict natural reserve in
1971, the island was leased to the Royal Society (UK), which initiated a systematic program of
research and built a research station to provide laboratory facilities and accommodation to visiting
scientists. In 1980, the Seychelles Island Foundation (SIF), a charitable trust with Seychellois and
international members on a Board of Trustees, took over management of Aldabra from the Royal
Society. Members of the SIF Board include the Royal Society, the Smithsonian Institution
(USA), the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the Royal Society for
Nature Conservation (UK), and ORSTOM (France).



57                               Amnex 3
Page 3 of 4
The research facility serves the dual purpose of research and conservation. The
activities of the research station are directed by the warden, who also is in charge of the strict
nature reserve. The warden is assisted by a conservation officer. The engineer is charged with
keeping in good working order the 3 electric generators, radio equipment, and equipment of the
weather station. The operation relies heavily on several skilled workers such as carpenters,
overland guides, and boatmen. An accommodation block with 16 rooms houses visiting and
resident scientists.
The station's premises, now 20 years old, are in urgent need of repair and
renovation. Similarly, the age and condition of the equipment is affecting the quality of research.
Staff may not be sufficient in numbers and training to cope with the new demands posed by
greater accessibility of the atoll to tourism. For these reasons the restoration project for Aldabra
atoll consists of four main components:  (a) rehabilitation of the research facility; (b)
strengthening of managerial and scientific personnel; (c) eradication of goats; and (d) preparation
of a Long-Term Management Plan.
D. THE RESTORATION PROGRAM FOR ALDABRA
Rehabilitation of the Research Facility
An assessment of the works and equipment necessary for the rehabilitation of the
research station was carried out by an engineer from the Ministry of Community Development
in 1989. A first phase of works was completed by late 1989. This phase included the renovation
of the 5 rain water collection tanks and the construction of 6 laborers' cottages.
The GEF program would finance the second phase, consisting of works and
acquisition of equipment. Works include (a) renovation of the laboratory; (b) repairs to the
accommodation block, rest area, and clinic; (c) construction of a sanitation system; and (d)
reconstruction of the slipway. Equipment to be acquired includes tables, bookcases, water and
gas supply, beds, and camping equipment. The supply of boats, the only form of transportation
around the atoll, would be enhanced through acquisition of a 17-ft. dory with 2 40-hp outboard
motors, and 3 25-hp outboards for existing boats. Acquisition of laboratory equipment would
be limited to 2 microscopes, as scientists are expected to bring most of their own small
equipment.
Managerial and Scientiric Personnel
It has proved increasingly difficult for SIF to recruit, for a long term assignment
on Aldabra, someone with the leadership talents as well as knowledge of conservation issues and
government policies to function as both scientist and nature warden. Many previous attempts to
place qualified scientists or managers on the atoll failed due to the difficult living conditions and
isolation. To overcome this difficulty and ensure the necessary continuity of action for
conservation programs, it is proposed to recruit a team of two scientists with managerial
experience. Taking advantage of the improved access through the airstrip on Assomption Island,
the scientist-managers could share their time or alternate between Aldabra, Mahe, and overseas



58                              Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
travels. SIF advertised for such a person in 1989, but could not find a suitable candidate locally.
Recruitment of expatriate personnel is therefore considered to be necessary.
The full-time manager's role would be to oversee the upgrading of services,
provide guidance to visiting scientists, and help ensure a suitable quality standard for scientific
research. In so doing the manager would improve the functioning of SIF itself. At present, the
SIF Board of Trustees, half of whom are expatriates from research organizations around the
world, meets once a year. The Seychellois executive group of the Board of Trustees meets once
a month to handle problems that have arisen as well as to prepare for Board meetings. There is
currently no permanent staff managing the SIF. With the greater opportunities for ecosystem
restoration afforded by the present program, in addition to the pressure from increased access to
visitors, it is doubtful whether SIF in its present form will be able to manage the increased level
of activities. The full-time manager would address this issue.
The program would cover salary complements for external assistance and overseas
social security contributions for a period of 2 years, as well as overseas travel expenses and a
vehicle.
Control of Goats
Goat control has been attempted on Aldabra since research began. Confinement
to one island of the group was ineffective, since goats can swim the channels between islands.
The GEF-supported goat control program has involved a broader investigation into all methods
of removal. SIF will apply these methods in a control campaign that will extend over a full year,
for maximum coverage. The program can be extended by six months if necessary.
Long-Term Management Plan
Long-range planning for Aldabra is vital, to ensure that the easier access to the
atoll yields greater scientific knowledge without encouraging encroachment on the ecosystem.
Critical issues that would be addressed in the Long-Term Management Plan for the atoll include
the number and frequency of visits by non-scientists, supervision of visitors while on the island,
liaison with other reserves and national parks in Seychelles, and the prospects for ecotourism
programs. The Management Plan would specify the institutional requirements for the adequate
functioning of the SIF and the management system on Aldabra itself.
Preparation of the Management Plan would be the responsibility of SIF, which
would draw primarily upon the experience of the warden and managers on Aldabra and the
technical expertise within the Division of Environment. A total of 2 specialist-months of
expatriate assistance will be financed under the program to assist SIF in specific aspects of
preparation.



59
Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
TURTLE PROTECTION PROGRAM
A. THE SETTING
Sea turtle populations around the world are rapidly being depleted. This has occurred
to such an extent that the CITES Convention (the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna) considers all species of sea turtles as being
endangered. Consequently, trade in these species or in products made from them is prohibited.
CITES is the world's major treaty regulating international trade in species threatened or
endangered by commerce. When CITES entered into effect in 1975, most species of sea turtles
were included in Appendix I, a listing of species considered to be in danger of extinction. By
1981 all species of sea turtles were so listed.
The depletion of the turtle populations has mainly been caused by human activities
such as alterations in feeding and nesting areas, hunting for domestic consumption and export,
egg collection, and accidental capture in fishing nets. Of these, the international trade in turtle
products has been the main cause of depletion of stocks around the world.
The sea turtle species that breed on the Seychelles islands are the Green (Chelonia
mydas) and Hawksbill (Eretmochelys imbricata) turtles. Both species have been important
economically since the islands were first settled. The Green turtle was once plentiful in the
northern granitic islands of Seychelles, but is now virtually extinct in the granitic islands and rare
in the Amirantes Group. Its last large wild refuge is on Aldabra. Where it is found on other
outlying islands, however, Green turtles continue to be caught mainly for local consumption by
residents of these islands. Restrictions were placed by a December 1990 law on the number of
licenses for the taking of Green turtles issued to the Islands Development Company (IDC), which
manages most outer islands, by the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA). An earlier (1987) law
forbids the killing of female Green turtles, but has proved difficult to enforce. Their shells are
usually discarded as being of limited value. In 1983, the population of Green turtles in
Seychelles was estimated at 3,500 - 5,000 nesting females.
Hawksbill turtles are caught for their shell, which is worked by about 20 artisans and
sold mainly to tourists. There has also been some direct export of shells that are unprocessed.
The flesh of the Hawksbill is not consumed as it is considered poisonous. However, the eggs
of both species are consumed. Current knowledge of Hawksbill populations in Seychelles is
derived largely from the comprehensive study carried out in the early 1980s by J. Mortimer,
under the auspices of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and the
World Wildlife Fund. The study concluded that both species of sea turtles were severely
overexploited in Seychelles and would vanish from many of the islands if the exploitation
continued unabated. The study also concluded that on the inner, granitic islands the Hawksbill
turtle had ceased to be an exploitable resource. In 1983, the population of Hawksbill turtles was
estimated at 1,200 -1,800 nesting females.



60
Annex4
Page 2 of 4
Several attempts have been made to reduce the harvesting of sea turtles to arrive at
a sustainable level of exploitation.  Legislation enacted in 1925 remained the basis for
management of catches of sea turtles until 1987, when the law was strengthened for protection
purposes. However, enforcement was weak or nonexistent. Some provisions in the law were
impractical, such as the condition that only males can be taken (most turtles are caught by
harpooning in the water, when it is impossible to distinguish male from female). Based on the
results of the Mortimer study and on discussions during the September 1990 Technical Seminar
to prepare the EMPS, the issuance of licenses to capture Hawksbill turtles has been stopped as
of December 1990. This measure will remain in effect until an agreed protection plan (to be
undertaken under the present GEF program) is completed. The local sale of Hawksbill shell
items is still legal, from the stocks available before the ban went into effect. The international
sale of Hawksbill items has been illegal since Seychelles acceded to the CITES convention in
1977. (CITES concerns only international, not local, trade).
Seychelles is therefore not, strictly speaking, in violation of CITES regulations when
it permits the sale of Hawksbill turtle items in the local market. But these products are almost
exclusively sold to tourists, who then (often unknowingly) export them illegally. The Seychelles
authorities recognize that the Hawksbill trade violates the spirit if not the letter of CITES, and
should consequently be stopped. There is a potential US$10,000 fine and/or imprisonment for
the smuggling of turtle products out of the country, but it is not known whether greater
environmental awareness is having an effect on the numbers doing so. Several reports have also
been made of unlawful catches, but no one has yet been prosecuted.
B. OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the GEF-financed turtle conservation program vary according to
the specific protection requirements of each species. For the Green turtle the main objective is
to establish and maintain a harvesting regime which ensures that local consumption does not
exceed the sustainable harvesting volume. For the Hawksbill turtle, the principal goal is to
enable Seychelles to comply with the stipulations of the CITES convention. The GEF program
will support the preparation of a protection and management plan for each species.
C. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
Green Turtle Program
A critical element of the Green turtle management plan is a new stock assessment.
The most recent data are by now 10 years old. The stock assessment will be carried out for all
of Seychelles, and is expected to take 2 years. During the first year, expatriate expertise will be
involved on a continuous basis, to establish a local monitoring program. Activities will be
continued largely by local staff during the second year. The Hawksbill turtle will be included
in the stock assessment. During this period the conservation consultant carrying out the task will



61
Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
be responsible for helping to train and strengthen local conservation officers in their current stock
assessment work. For several years after the initial assessment, the consultant will return to carry
out updated assessments and assist in capacity building within the Conservation and National
Parks section of the Division of Environment, MEPER.
Once the stock assessment is completed, the management plan will be prepared. The
management plan will indicate numbers, size, gender, and locations of the offtake of males that
can be permitted in the three major island groups. A feasible program for monitoring the offtake,
especially the trade between the outer islands and Mahe, will be a central feature of the
management plan. Training in enforcement and regulation for the Conservation and National
Parks section will also be carried out.
Hawksbill Turtle Program
Those in Seychelles favorably disposed toward turtle farming or ranching are aware
that under CITES, export of turtle products could be considered if a successful program of
production of the endangered species, which ensures the recovery of the wild population, can be
established. Some interest has been expressed in Seychelles in establishing a Hawksbill turtle
farm. Moreover, the continuing commercial interest in turtles, and some success in ranching
crocodiles, have resulted in sea turtle ranching proposals being advanced at the CITES meetings
of 1983, 1985, and 1987.
These proposals were found to be deficient in several respects. Although the concept
is theoretically attractive, the fact remains that no Hawksbill turtle farms have become
commercially viable anywhere in the world. In the last few decades, sea turtle captive rearing
operations for trade and conservation have been attempted in Australia, Suriname, Palau,
Indonesia, Cuba, Reunion, and the Cayman Islands. None has succeeded. These efforts have
focused mainly on Green turtles, which are arguably easier to raise in captivity than Hawksbills.
The Reunion project was closed in 1988 after extensive press reports of unsanitary conditions and
the illegal killing of small turtles. The Cayman Islands operation, after nearly 20 years of
commercial non-viability, has evolved into a research facility, partially supported by tourism and
local sales of turtle meat. Consequently, the chances of such a farm succeeding in Seychelles are
considered to be remote.
The feasibility study of turtle farming will aim to estimate the full costs (often
underestimated in past studies) as well as benefits of such an operation. If the study concludes
that Hawksbill farming is not justified either on technical, economic, or environmental grounds,
no Hawksbill turtle farm will be established. If the study deems Hawksbill farming feasible,
Seychelles may decide to start farming. Any application for an exemption to the CITES
restrictions would be filed only after it has been demonstrated that the enterprise is successful.
In the meantime, the turtle shell products trade, based on capture in the wild, is being
phased out. The phasing out of the trade in turtle shell products will be supported by the GEF
program, which will provide the artisans with alternatives and compensation. The training and
development of artisans is the responsibility of the artisan development company CODEVAR,



62
Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
under the leadership of the Department of Industry (DOI). Existing stocks of turtle shell can only
be sold, worked and resold as finished products by people possessing a license, the issuance of
which will be strictly limited.
An effort by the GEF program will also be launched on the demand side to inform
tourists of the consequences of smuggling turtle products, but also emphasizing the positive
aspects of saving sea turtles. A short film will be prepared to be shown to tourists coming to
Seychelles. Public information materials will also be prepared in English, French, and Italian.
These efforts will be managed by the Division of Environment, MEPER. Training and education
within the Conservation and National Parks section, MEPER and in schools, as well as the
general public, will also be financed under the program. Training materials in Creole will be
prepared for this purpose.
In summary, the program for protection of the Hawksbill turtle will:
a.     conduct a feasibility study of Hawksbill turtle farming;
b.     carry out a turtle trade compensation study;
c.     provide for retraining of artisans involved in working
Hawksbill turtle shell;
d.     provide alternative materials during the training period;
e.     provide, when necessary, revenue compensation for artisans for
a period of up to three years; and
f.    furnish educational materials for Seychellois and tourists on
the legal and conservation aspects of trade in and purchase of
turtle products.



63                              Annex S
Page 1 of 3
RECEPTION AND DISPOSAL OF MARINE WASTES
AT THE PORT OF VICTORIA
A. SEA-BASED POLLUIMON
Because of its remote location, Seychelles relies largely on maritime transport for
imports. In addition, the rapid growth of tuna processing has been accompanied by a sharp
increase in shipping activity at the country's main port, Victoria, on Mahe island.
This increased activity has affected the marine coastal areas of Seychelles,
especially in Victoria harbor and the surrounding waters. The commercial fishing fleet generates
some 1 million liters of waste petroleum oil annually, which is dumped at sea. Including garbage
and fish wastes, about 14,000 tons of waste is produced each year by the commercial fishing
fleet.
There is a need for immediate action to assess and monitor the coastal
environment and resources and to determine present levels and sources of pollution. The most
urgent need is to provide adequate facilities at the Port of Victoria for the reception, storage, and
recycling or disposal of waste from commercial vessels.
B. THE PORT OF VICTORIA
The port of Victoria, located on the east coast of Mahe, is the only deepwater
facility in the islands. The commercial port handles bulk oil and cement imports, general cargo
and containers, and all vessels requiring bunkers. The adjacent fishing port with recent additions
handles all fishing vessels, inter-island schooner traffic, and frozen fish exports. The fishing port
is separated from the commercial port by an enclosed basin used for mooring yachts (see also
Map No. 23522). The only ship repair facility is located near this basin.
Traffic volumes in 1991, mainly imports, amounted to about 200,000 tons, of
which 54% was crude oil. The major imported goods are foodstuffs, oil, transport equipment,
and livestock, whereas major exported products include fish, copra, and cinnamon. The location
of Seychelles, on or near the main Indian Ocean trade routes, benefits Victoria which is used as
a port of call en route between the Far East and Southern Africa and between Europe and
Mauritius/Reunion.
Port operations are managed by the Ports and Marine Services Division (PMSD),
Ministry of Tourism and Transport, and in particular by the Harbourmaster's Office. PMSD is
responsible for accounting for all charges, dues, and fees derived from water-related port
operations, except for shore handling of goods and fuel deliveries at the fishing port.



64                             Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
C. ABATEMENT OF MARINE POLLUTION: THE MARPOL CONVENTION
In the early 1970s, the International Maritime Organization (IMO), a United
Nations Agency, had already taken action to deal with pollution of the seas. However, further
development of modem industrial practices made it clear that action on a much broader scale was
required. The result was the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships,
usually known as the MARPOL Convention, adopted in 1973. The Convention has two Protocols
dealing respectively with Reports on Incidents involving Harmful Substances, and with
Arbitration. It also has five Annexes which spell out the regulations for preventing various forms
of marine pollution:
Annex I:     pollution by oil
Annex II:    pollution by noxious liquid substances carried in bulk
Annex III:    pollution by harmful substances carried in packages, portable
tanks, freight containers, road or rail tank wagons, and so on
Annex IV:    pollution by sewage from ships; and
Annex V:    pollution by garbage from ships.
Five years later, at the time of the International Conference on Tanker Safety and
Pollution Prevention held in February 1978, problems in the ratification by countries of the
MARPOL convention were discussed. Countries were reluctant to ratify the Convention mainly
because of Annex II (pollution by noxious liquid substances carried in bulk). A Protocol
approved in 1978 stated that if countries agreed to adopt Annex I, they could have a delay of
three years in adopting Annex II. The Protocol also requires that segregated ballast tanks be
protectively located; that is, they must be positioned in such a way that they will help protect the
cargo tanks in the event of a collision or grounding. Another innovation concerned a new
approach to crude oil washing, which had recently been developed by the oil industry. Storage
tanks would henceforth be washed not with water but with crude oil itself, eliminating the need
for discharge of oily water. Crude oil washing under the Protocol is an alternative to segregated
ballast tanks for existing tankers, and is required on new tankers. The 1978 Protocol also
introduced stricter regulations for the survey and certification of ships. In effect, the 1978
Protocol absorbed the parent 1973 Convention. The Convention of 1973 and the Protocol of
1978 are thus referred to together as 'MARPOL 73/78."
Two amendments were introduced in 1984 and 1985, both designed to make
implementation easier and more effective. The 1985 amendment, mainly concerning Annex II,
incorporates further technological advances and is intended to simplify its adoption and
implementation. The amendments make the International Bulk Chemical Code mandatory, and
also reduce the need for port reception facilities for chemical wastes.
Annexes I, II, and V are currently in force. The provisions of Annex m,
although not yet in force, are now being implemented through the International Maritime
Dangerous Goods Code (IMDG Code). Annex IV, covering sewage from ships, is not yet in
force. Under the terms of the MARPOL provisions, ships are no longer able to discharge their
wastes at sea, as they have traditionally done. This implies that ports of call must be able to
receive the wastes and to dispose of them in an environmentally sound manner.



65                               Annex-5
Page 3 of 3
D. GEF-SUPPORTED ACTIVlTIES
The GEF program would support a study in two phases of waste reception
facilities at the Port of Victoria. Terms of Reference for this study are included as Appendix 1
to this Annex. In the first phase, the scope and nature of the problem will be analyzed, technical
features of the facilities will be described up to the level of preliminary designs, and the
institutional and financial implications for the Port of Victoria will be defined. Map No. 23522
shows the currently proposed locations of waste reception facilities, which would be subject to
adjustment as the first phase of the study is carried out. Also to be covered in this phase are the
institutional arrangements for construction and management of the facilities, cost recovery
through port charges, and the roles and responsibilities of PMSD.
An important feature of the first phase of the study will be recommendations on
adequate collection and disposal of the waste deposited at the port. In this regard, the study will
establish linkages with ongoing efforts addressed specifically to this issue. The current sanitary
landfills in use at La Retraite and on the east coast have nearly reached the capacity that can be
sustained without harmful environmental impacts. A study recently completed by the French firm
ANRED has recommended the construction of a composting and incineration plant for more
efficient disposal of waste. A complementary study now underway will focus more attention on
the economic and financial implications of such a solution. Recommendations of the GEF port
waste reception study will be based in part on the findings of these and other studies, so that the
solutions proposed are fully consistent with island-wide approaches to solid waste collection and
disposal.
The second phase of the study will focus largely on preparation of detailed
engineering designs for the proposed facilities. Actual construction of the facilities would be the
subject of a separate financing request in a subsequent GEF tranche by the Seychelles
Government.



66                               Annex
Page 1 of 6
PRASLIN IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Setting: Praslin Island
Praslin island, the second largest of the Seychelles islands, is about 12 km long
by 4 km wide with a total land area of 41 sq km. The island has a tropical climate with an
average annual rainfall of about 1,700 mm. The topography is rugged in the central portions and
in the northwest, but access by boat is facilitated by the wide plains along the southern and
northern coasts and the sheltered Baie Ste. Anne facing the neighboring island of La Digue.
There are numerous scenic beaches. The population of 5,000 is employed mainly in services
(especially tourism), communications, and public utilities. Agriculture, aside from an experiment
station near Anse Kerlan in the northwest, is mainly confined to family plots. Praslin lies two
hours by boat, and 15 minutes by air, from the main island of Mahe.
Almost the entire population of Praslin lives along the coast. The two principal
concentrations are the villages of Baie Ste. Anne on the northern, and Grand Anse on the
southern, side of the island. There are also some smaller settlements and the rest of the people
live scattered over the lower parts of the island. The center of Praslin is virtually uninhabited,
largely the result of the steep, forested terrain and the lack of water. Although population growth
has been modest, employment opportunities are growing rapidly and a labor shortage is
emerging.
As the prime tourist destination after Mahe, Praslin is striving to maintain its
identity as an island where the pace is slower than that of Mahe, the environment even more
accessible, but the tourist amenities fully satisfactory. So far, tourism has been absorbed on
Praslin without major impacts on the environment, in part because it is the relatively untouched
environment that draws the visitors. In 1990 the island had some 325 rooms with 650 beds
available in hotels and guesthouses. This accounted for about 150,000 tourist-nights spent on the
island. Tourists arrive throughout the year, with no strong peak seasons. Most hotels are
clustered at Cote d'Or, on the northern coastal plain. The newest hotel, financed by South
African and other investors, was completed in 1991 along the Anse Consolation road in the
southeast, and there are plans to build another at Anse Kerlan. A popular beach in the northeast
is accessible from Cote d'Or, but the idea of opening a second access to this beach from Anse
Kerlan, only 0.8 km away, has been resisted on environmental grounds. The most well-known
attraction, one of the world's only stands of coco-de-mer coconut trees, is protected in the Vall6e
de Mai National Park. To maintain the balance between the environment and growth is the
central challenge facing the island in the future.
The government intends to protect the natural attractions of the area and has
decided to limit hotel expansion for the immediate future. It is also the policy to discourage mass
tourism and, as much as possible, move tourism up-market. The current ceiling allows for an
additional 250 hotel rooms, which would increase the total number of beds to about 1,150. Some
40 percent of this expansion is now under implementation or recently completed, and consists
mostly of additional rooms for established small and medium size hotels and guesthouses.
Because of the existing contacts and the reputation of the island, combined with a strong demand
for hotel space on Praslin, it does not take long before high occupancy rates are achieved for the
added capacity.



67                              Annex6
Page 2 of 6
Under the project, basic infrastructure on Praslin would be improved in order to
maintain the momentum of development of the local economy and ensure that visitor access to
environmental attractions is well managed. Improvements in water supply, airport facilities, and
roads would be carried out simultaneously so that the investments can be fully complementary.
Water Supply
The Praslin water supply consists of two independent systems (see Map IBRD
23524). The northern and western system relies mainly on water supplied from the Fond B'Offay
river, and secondarily from the Salazie river, to supply the community of Baie Ste. Anne and the
hotels at C6te d'Or. The southern and eastern system uses as its main source the Nouvelle
Decouverte river, and secondarily the Mont Plaisir river, to serve the community of Grand Anse
and nearby settlements. The works at the four water supply sources consist of intakes,
sedimentation tanks, pressure filters and storage tanks. Construction of most of these works
occurred between 1983 and 1986 and constituted the Praslin Water Supply, Phase I project. The
water gravitates to the distribution systems composed of 100 to 150 mm of asbestos cement and
ductile iron pipes. For a smaller area around Baie Ste. Anne a booster pumping station has been
installed. The capacity of the existing systems is decided by the capacity of the pressure filters,
amounting to 432 cubic meters per day (m3/day). This would correspond to a capacity of 864
m3/day for the Baie Ste. Anne system and also for the Grand Anse system.
The present population and number of hotel beds, including those under
renovation or extension, for areas covered by the two water supply systems are:
Population                Hotel Beds
Baie Ste. Anne             2,510                       572
Grand Anse                 2.492                       16
Total               5,002                       740
The above total of 740 hotel beds does not include the possible addition of 184
beds from the hotel planned for Anse Kerlan, but does include the recently completed hotel at
Anse Consolation. A final decision has not been made on construction of the Anse Kerlan hotel.
The present water demand for domestic and hotel consumption in m3/day is based on a per capita
consumption of 140 liters per capita per day (lcd), and 100 lcd (expected to be achieved by the
year 2020), and 450 lcd for hotels. The consumption in m3/day corresponds to:
Domestic    Ilote          Total
Baie Ste. Anne
-at 1401cd                        351           257           608
- at 100 lcd                      251           257           508
Grand Anse
- at 140 lcd                      349            76           425
- at 100 lcd                      249            76           325



68                              Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
The combined dry weather safe yield for the Baie Ste. Anne and Grand Anse
systems amounts to 536 m3/day and 380 m3/day respectively. After reduction of unaccounted-for
water of 20 percent, the safe yield would correspond to 429 m3l/day and 304 m3/day respectively.
Thus the present safe yield falls below consumption for both systems, especially for Baie Ste.
Anne where water scarcities in the dry season of March through August can have a significant
impact on tourism. There is a clear justification for an increase in the availability of the dry
weather flow.
With the project, the safe yield of the Baie Ste. Anne and Grand Anse systems
will rise to 597 m3/day and 400 m3/day respectively. This compares to anticipated demand in
1994 of 520 and 331, and in the year 2000 of 580 and 400 m3/day respectively. The works
financed under the project would therefore just permit the expected demand in 2000 to be met.
The existing intake structures at Fond B'Offay and Nouvelle Decouverte are both
located at an elevation of 90 m above mean sea level. The new intakes will be located at 30 m
above mean sea level at Fond B'Offay and 60 m above mean sea level at Nouvelle Decouverte.
The water will be pumped from these locations to an existing break pressure tank (Fond B'Offay)
and a sedimentation tank (Nouvelle Decouverte), and will then gravitate through the pressure
filters. The capacity of the pressure filters will still be adequate after the increase in water
production. The additional works to be required include: (a) supply and installation of 4 pumps;
(b) construction of 2 pumphouses; (c) construction of 2 intakes including grit tanks and sumps;
and (d) installation of 100 mm ductile iron pipes with a length of about 900 m. The pipes are
available in stock.
Implementation of these works will avoid much more costly additions to capacity
until at least the year 2000. The goal of the current national development plan is to make treated
water available to at least 95 percent of the Seychelles population by 1995. Soon after the
existing (Phase I) works were completed, plans for a Phase II were drawn up. The proposed
Phase II consisted of a dam and reservoir to be constructed at Plaine Hollandaise, in the center
of the island, which would yield at least 500 kiloliters of water per day. However, this project
was expensive (US$5 million was the initial estimate) and even more important, would have
seriously altered or destroyed the Plaine Hollandaise wetlands, one of the last remaining such
areas on the island. The present Phase II scheme is proposed as an alternative much lower in
cost, in order to better utilize existing capacity and postpone a decision on additional source
development until it becomes absolutely necessary.
An option considered during preparation of the currently proposed Phase II
scheme was to interconnect the Baie Ste. Anne and Grand Anse systems, thereby achieving an
island-wide distribution system. Such an approach has been adopted in the Mahd Integrated
Water Supply program, in an advanced stage of preparation. Interconnection would involve the
installation of a 4-km long pipeline in the southwestern part of the island. This option will be
further analyzed in the course of project implementation, to determine the related costs versus
potential benefits and the possibility of this approach meeting additional requirements beyond the
year 2000.



69                               Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
Road Rehabilitation
The main road system on Praslin has a length of about 40 km, of which 25 km
are already paved, and the remainder are improved earth roads. The dispersal of the Praslin
population leads to a demand for transport to reach places of employment and social amenities.
SPTC operates scheduled bus services which are extensively used by the local population. SPTC
also runs chartered services to take shift workers to hotels and to transport tourists. However,
the poor road conditions have resulted in dissatisfaction, especially since all the main roads on
Mahe are now hard surfaced. On Praslin vehicle operating costs are high, buses break down
more frequently, and the population is displeased with bumpy and dusty rides. There is,
therefore, strong pressure to have the remaining main roads on the island improved.
The motor vehicle fleet on Praslin numbers about 300. Some 125 of these
vehicles are directly involved in carrying tourists, as hire vehicles, minibuses, and taxis for
tourist transport. At least another 25 vehicles appear to be exclusively involved in transport
directly related to the tourism industry, such as hotel vehicles carrying supplies and buses
carrying hotel personnel. This figure could actually be much higher in view of the dominant
position of tourism in Praslin's economy.
Based on the growth of the number of hotel rooms and accounting for a lower
than average occupancy rate for the new rooms during the first two years, it has been estimated
that the number of bed-nights will grow by 10 percent per year during the period 1990-96. Hotel
service traffic may grow somewhat more slowly than the actual tourist transport. The overall
vehicle fleet in Seychelles increased between 1985 and 1990 by some 9 percent per year. On
Praslin the tourist transport traffic is expected to increase at 9 percent per year from 1990 to
1996, and is assumed to grow at only 3 percent per year afterward. Other traffic on Praslin is
assumed to grow at 3 percent per annum throughout the entire planning period. In combining
these estimates, a rate of 4 percent per year has been used for the growth of traffic as a whole
on Praslin roads, except for the western section (Anse Kerlan) where an 8 percent rate was
forecast.
An economic and envrionmental analysis of the Praslin road rehabilitation
program, which at that time consisted of four road segments, was conducted in early 1992. The
analysis concluded that the proposed works involved modest negative environmental impacts that
could be mitigated by low-cost measures such as widening only to the minimum acceptable width
and avoiding where possible the removal of vegetation and rocks. These measures have been
adopted in the proposed design. However, one road segment of the four, that of paving the 2.9-
km Pasquiere track crossing the island at a narrow point, was found to pose a danger to the
environmentally sensitive Plaine Hollandaise wetlands area. Following extensive discussion with
LTD and consultation with the local population, it was decided to drop this road segment from
the program.
Detailed engineering for the three remaining roads in the program was completed
by mid-1992. Among the most important concepts guiding the design was the need to keep to
the existing alignment with only some minor geometric changes. These will involve small
amounts of earthwork. Removal of trees and rock blasting will also be kept to a minimum.
Maintaining the existing alignment has contributed to lower costruction costs, since the majority
of the road components such as edgewalls and culvert bridges are already in existence. The road



70                              Annex6
Page 5 of 6
width between existing road edgewalls will be maintained. Along sections where new edgewalls
will be constructed, the new road width will be a minimum of 4.5 m and a maximum of 6 m,
depending on the cost of widening and the environmental consequences. The road surface will
be of asphalt premix of at least 40 mm thickness for Anse Consolation and Anse Boudin and at
least 30 mm thiclness for Anse Kerlan.
Technical characteristics of proposed works are summarized below:
Ane Boudin road
Length:             4.6 km
Objective:         All-weather motorable surface
Description of
Works:              Widening and realignment of several sections to
motorable standard. Provide adequate road side drains,
repair existing bridges, culverts, road edgewalls, and
seawalls. The existing concrete segment (0.1 Inm) will
be provided with 15 mm asphalt overlay. New edgewall
and bus lay-bys will be constructed where required.
Surface treatment of 40 mm asphalt including all base
preparation.
Anse Consolation road
Length:             5.8 km
Objective:          All-weather motorable surface
Description of
Works:              Provision of drainage and road edgewalls, and repair of
existing road edgewalls, seawalls and culverts. Limited
realignment to conform to motorable standard. Existing
segments of asphalt surface will be provided with 15 mm
asphalt overlay. Passing bays and bus lay-bys will be
constructed where required. Retaining wall will be
provided to prevent the embankment from further
erosion. Surface treatment of 40 mm asphalt premix
including all base preparation along the earth surface
sections.
Anse Kerlan road
Length:             2.9 Ikm



71                               Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
Objective:          All-weather motorable surface
Description of
Works:              Provision of adequate drainage along entire road to
prevent flooding during rainy season. Construction of
road edgewalls with some sections prevented from
further erosion by rock armoring or groins. Bus lay-bys
will be constructed and the hard shoulder landscaped.
Surface treatment of at least 30 mm asphalt premix
including all base preparation.
Airport Improvements
When officially opened in 1975, the Praslin airport had an unpaved airstrip and
a small shed for passenger processing. Since that time, several measures to upgrade facilities
have been undertaken, including construction of an asphalt runway opened in June 1988,
construction of a technical building, provision of approach and airport terminal control services,
and installation of runway lights. The Praslin airport presently has a passenger throughput of
146,700, with about 14,000 flights each year. Over 50 percent of passengers are tourists.
During peak periods totalling 6 1/2 hours per day, traffic runs at eight aircraft
operations per hour. For this level of operations, the airport as a whole operates at maximum
capacity. In particular, the apron has insufficient capacity for aircraft to park. The load bearing
capacity of the runway cannot safely accommodate larger aircraft than those presently using the
facility. The Directorate of Civil Aviation (DCA) turns down requests from general aviation
aircraft in the 22,000 kg MTOW range to fly to Praslin, because of load restrictions and safety
implications.
DCA has commissioned a master plan for the long-term development of the
Seychelles International (Mahe) and Praslin airports. Measures expected to be examined include
strengthening of the present runway to accommodate 30-35 passenger aircraft (22,000 MTOW),
widening the present runway to 30 m, relocation of the terminal building, construction of a
helipad, and improvement in the drainage system.
The justification for strengthening the runway is closely tied to the eventual
acquisition by Air Seychelles of 30-35 passenger aircraft. However, the domestic airline has no
plans to acquire such aircraft before 1994 at the earliest, since airstrips on the outer islands are
not now able to accommodate them and the extra traffic to and from Praslin would not by itself
make such an acquisition cost-effective. It was therefore decided to limit the works supported
in the present project to a preliminary phase of airport development, consisting of an overlay on
the runway and extension of the parking apron. Completion of this preliminary phase will
provide the airport with the capacity to handle a greater number of operations with the present
types of aircraft being used. It will also allow greater flexibility in scheduling as well as
accommodation of military and general aviation aircraft, which often arrive on Praslin with little
or no advance warning.



72                                     Annex 7
Page 1 of 14
*ZCEZLr.ZS
WvrTtaoUmUU AND am !R"SNO PROJUC?
R-IESOURCE MAZcln2s PROGRAM
DZTAILZD COST ZSTASLTXS
(SR- 000)
Local        Foreign
Exbachan          Total
A.  Praslin Water Supply, Phase XI
1. Supply and installation of 4 pumps                     -           163.0          163.0
2.  Construction of 2 pumphouses                       48.5            12.2           60.7
3.  Construction of 2 intakes including                72.7            18.3           91.0
grit tanks and pumps
4.  Laying of 100 mm ductile iron pipes               409.1               -          409.1
(900 a)
Sub-total                                         530.3           193.5          723.8
S.  Water Resources Study and Kanagement
Plans for Outer Islands
1. Diagnostic MissLon (2 up-months)                    18.0           162.0          180.0
2.  Senior Hydrologist (2 *p-years)                   180.0         1,620.0        1,800 .0
3.  Inter-island transportation,                      758.0                          758. 0
accommodation, and travel allowance
4.  Hydrological and Meteorological                       -         1,956.0        1,956.0
equipment
S. Data Processing Software                               -            21.0           21.0
6. Training for Counterpart                               -            82.0           82.0
Sub-total                                         956.0         3,841.0        4,797.0
C.  Marine Resource M-anagent Plans
1. Marine Resources Specialist (2 *p-years)           180.0         1,620.0        1,800.0
2. ZquLpment and Software                                 -           302.0          302.0
3.  Short-term expertise (5 sp-months)                 45.0           405.0          450.0
4.  Training And Educational Materials                176.0           176.0          352.0
5.  1 light vehicle for wildlife inventories              -            72.0           72.0
Sub-total                                         401.0         2,575.0        2,976.0
D. Organizational Study of
Division of Environment
Consulting Services                                   117.0           275.0           392.0
(4.5 up-months)
Sub-total                                         117.0           275.0          392.0
TOTAL                                          2,004.3         6,884.5        8,888.3



maisminw a  umrn  saean=
A.  -teus  _ate  ""IF#                    $0.3        193.5      723.8                                                                                                      s.3        193.9       X23.@
watm sommum-      -   IS e nd
_eamet  *IS  Coe  _a
A. SerU   or-l"t                      5..@ 83 1.             13..                                                    5.6       9.                                       19.2    1,620.5        12".6
3. Ist-lo_n  tr_rWettie,
*^_oass                           1J.0                    52.0    303.0                    MA.      33.0                   33.0                                     7S.S
i. nrahouNmm. e          sd
*         1towet Sial fz t                                                   *S 6.06 g.                                                                                      *.9  .8
2.1.   _-s            r -                                                           21.        21.0 .1.0                                                                                        21
.  rsalaa  few  _out                                                             ls @r 82.  02.                                                                                   $3.        02:a
.    At   La                       167.0      162.6      10.6      313.. 0    ,@.        ,22.        33.       *.    1,2X.0                                          S.      3.41.0   4"7.0
Main =Js awmrom  maagmet *1- ss
2.  MLez "Monreiaoat066.6                                                          616.6      66.         6                                                             1".6    1.626.    1,666.0
a.  u.                                15.t  6                152.      303.6                  262.s     26.66.0  151..            363. 5.05.0
3.  "rt o          et                                                    1.  5.0    1            .       27.0 .43.             ,75. 9.5              1.                                        5 5.6 S.  e.6
._tetsi p s3.. .      r52.                                                                 217.6     210         410        |.                                      17^         17*.6      352.6
S.    e Uagt  fz.1tg                               7                                62 7.6     6.66.6 X2.6
116.6                                        10.6       222.6     262.6    22,23..                  6.3.0 364.0.   1,77.    2,42.. 65.6. .  32.0  .  .    .        4.         s7.        ,74.6
*.Organiuzainl dtft*
. iL.        sriwat ..0                           275.       32 .0                                                                                                       17.0 l7S.0 3l2.0
122.6*1*267.X    16.5    2,5.0    67.    446.                                           67.        461.6    1,04.6   I,S5.6           1.0                           76. 90.0    S .0  11094.5   8,52.6
.0.2 2.
1-h



Annex 7
74                                   Page 3 of 14
seychelles Guy Program
Biodiversity Conservation
Restoration and Preservation of Aldabra Noosyste_
Detailed Cost Eutimat-e
Local     Foreign     Total      * Total
-------------- (SR 000) ---------------
A. REHABILITATION OF
RESEARC8 STATION
1. Renovation and repair
of buildings & facilities                  208        323         531
2. Laboratory &
other equipment a/                                    355         355
Subtotal                                 208        678        886        0.30
B.  STRZNGTBENING OF MANAGERIAL
AND SCIENTIFIC PERSOWNEL
1. Salaries                                     74        697         771
2.  International travel                                  151         151
3.  1 Light vehicle (Mahe)                                 75          75
Subtotal                                  74        923         997       0.34
C. CONTROL OF GOATS
1.  Salaries and Stipends                                 519         519
2.  Equipment b/                                          113         113
3.  Domestic and international                  88        100         188
travel
Subtotal                                  88        732        620        0.28
D.  PRZPARATION OF LONG TZRM
MANAGZMDNT PLAN
1.  Short-term speciali.ta                      27        243         270
(3 up-months)
Subtotal                                  27        243        270        0.09
Total Coat                              397      2,576      2,973        1.00
a/        fiberglass dory, outboard engines, laboratory equlpmnnt, beds and
mattresses, camping equipment
b/        radiocollars, headsets, shoes, flashlights and batteries



Annex 7
75                                            Page 4 of 14
Sychelle-s O61 Program
*lodiv-raity Conservation
Restoration and Preservation of Aldabra Raoqyrte_
Cost Zatiaate- by Tear
1993                     1994                    1995
Local  Forgn    Total  Local  Forgn   Total  Local  Forgn  Total
------------------------- (SR 000) -------------------------
A.  RNASXILITATION 0O
RzSuzRCm ETATION
1.  Renovation and repair
of buildings 6 facilities         208      323      531
2.  Laboratory &
other equipment                            215      215              140     140
Subtotal                        208      538      746             140      140
D.  STRCSTENNING O  WAAGRIAL
AND SCIDIPTXIC PRRSONRRL
1.  salaries                           19      173       192    36       351     387      19     173    192
2.  International travol                         32       32              76      76              43      43
3.  1 Light vehicle                             75        75
Subtotal                         19      280      299     36      427      463      19    216      235
C.  CONTROL OW COATS
1.  Salaries and Stipends                      310       310                                     209     209
2. Equipment                                    113      113
3.  Domestic and international         70       91       161    12        15      27
travel
Subtotal                         70      514      534    12         15      27             209     209
D.  PREPARATION OP LONG TEM
MANAGERENT PLAN
1.  Short-tera Sp-eialists                                       18      162     180      14      76      90
(3 ap-_onthn)
Subtotal                                                  le      162      180      14      76      90
Total Cost                     297   1,332   1.429       go      744    310        33    501    534



Annex 7
76                                        Page 5 of 14
t-ychelless GE? Program
Biodiversity Conservation
Turtle Protection Program
Detailed Cost Estimates
Local    Foreign      Total     % Total
 ____________- (SR 000)  -----------
A.  GENRL  TURTLE KAMAGEMENT
PROGRAM
1. Consulting Services for Stock
Assessment and Management Plan                       1306       1306
2.  Accommodation for Consultant               124                   124
3. Domestic Travel                             208                   208
Subtotal                                 332       1306      1,636       0.31
3. BAWKSBILL TURSTL
MANAGEMENT PROGRAK
1.  Turtle Ranching Study                       27        243        270
(3 rp-monthr expertise)
2.  Turtle Trade Compensation                   27        243        270
Study (3 up-months expertise)
3.  Re-training of artisans                    243        16S        411
4.  Materials for re-training                             324        324
S. Revenue Compensation Package               2400                  2400
Subtotal                                2697        978      3,675       0.69
Total Cost                           3,029       2,264      5,313       1.00



Annex 7
77                                             Page  6 of  14
USyaholloes GRP Program
Biodlversity Conservation
Turtle Proteation Program
Cost 13timates by Tear
1993                        1994                      1995
Local    Forgn    Total    Local    Forgn    Total   Local  ?orgn   Total
------------------------- (SR 000) --------------------------
G *   313  TURTLZ MNAUGRUMUt
PROGRAJM
1   Consulting Sorvices for                         653      653                653       653
Stock Assassment and
Manageaent Plan
2.  Accommodation for                      62                 62        62                 62
Consultant
3.  Domsetic Travol                       104                104       104                104
Subtotal                            166      653      819       166       653      819
D.  EAWKSBILL tURtLE
KA ACGZMNI PROGRAX
1.  Turtle Ranching Study                  27       243      270
2.  Turtle Trado Compensation              14       121      135        14      121       135
Study
3.  Training of Artisans                   e1        56      137        31       56       137      81       56     137
4.  Matarials for re-training                       108      103                lo       106              108     log
5.  Revenue Compensation
Package                               900                900      300                600      700              700
Subtotal                           1022      528    1,550       895       235    1,180     781      164     945
Total Cost                      1,133    1,131   2,369   1,061           938   1,S99      731      164     345



Annex 7
78                                 Page 7 of 14
Seych.lless CEF Program
Abatement of Marine Pollution
Waste Reception Facilities (HARPOL) Study
Detailed Cost Estimates
Local    Foreign    Total      O Total
 --------- (SR 000) ------ --
A. PHASE 1A
consulting Services
(5.5 up-months)                    50        445        495
Subtotal                          50        445       495        0.65
B. PHASE 1B
Consulting Services
(3 ap-months)                      27        243        270
Subtotal                          27        243       270        0.35
Total Cost                       77        688        765       1.00



Annex 7
79                                        Page 8 of 14
Seychelle-s c2r Program
Abatement of MarLne Pollution
Waste Reception Facillitis (MARPOL) study
Cost Z-tla-tes by Year
1993                   1994                    1995
Local Forgn  Total Local  Forgn   Total  Local  Forgn  Total
------------ - ----------- (SR 000) ------------------------
A. PEAE 1A
Consulting Services
(5.5 *p-months)                   50    445    495
Subtotal                         S0    445    495
B. PHASE 1B
Consulting Servicom
(3 ap-montha)                     27    243    270
Subtotal                         27    243    270
Total Cost                      77   S63      765



Annex 7
80                                                Page  9 of  14
YzROUUom_        ADD SRNSPORT PROJUCT
PUSLX3 ROAD INIROvENNET PROGRAM
DETAILUD COST 3STXXATSX
(SR'000)
Local         Foreign                          * of
COKPOwXwS                         Currncv          llS]SULShanotal                  Tot.al
.   ag, Consolatlos
1   Road Widening and Excavation                        0.9              0.3              1.2           1
2.  Edgewalls and Rotaining Wall.                     471.6            491.6            963.2          24
3.  Seavalls                                           31.9             15.2             47.1           1
4.  Drains and Culverts                                09.3            191.0            260.3           7
5.  Dun Lay-by.                                        11.3             59.9             71.2           2
6.  Base Course                                        31.5             31.5             63.0           2
7.  Asphalt Surfacing and Overlay                     506.4          1,669.2         2,377.6           62
S.  sit- Development                                   32.2              5.7             37.9           1
Sub-total                                      1,177.1          2,664.4          3,641.5          100
B.  kne, Boudin
1.  Road Widening and  xcoavation                       6.S              3.0              9.S           1
2.  Edgewall. and Retaining Walls                     371.6            562.7            934.5          24
3.  Seawalls                                           24.7             11.6             36.5           1
4.  Drains and Culverts                               147.6            320.3            467.9          13
S.  Buu  Lay-byn                                       11.3             59.9             71.2           2
6.  Repair of Bridge                                   46.1             22.8             70.9           2
7.  Base Course                                        33.0             33.3             66.3           2
S.  Asphalt Surfacing                                 442.4          1,626.6         2,069.2           54
9.  Site Development                                    6.4              1.2              7.6           1
Sub-total                                      1,092.1          2,641.6          3,733.9          100
C.  Anoe Kerlan
1.  Road Wideining and Exoavation                      10.3              4.5             14.6           1
2.  Edgewalls and Retaining Walls                     148.3            224.4            372.7          19
3.  Drain. and Culverts                                60.6            172.8            253.4          13
4.  Bus L-y-by.                                        19.4            102.7            122.1           6
5.  Base Course                                        20.0             20.2             40.2           2
6.  Asphalt Surfacing                                 236.3             666.7        1,105.0           57
7.  Site Development                                   29.2              5.2             34.4           2
Sub-total                                        544.1          1,396.5          1,942.6          100
D.  Equipment and Training
1.  Materials ToSting Equipoent                        13.0            112.0            125.0
2.  Traing of Technicians                             112.0            176.0            26S.0
3. Work Attachment Overnaes
for site engineer (1 *p-month)                                     45.0             45.0
Sub-total                                         125.0           333.0            456.0
TOTAL                                         2,936.3          7,037.7          9,976.0



Annex 7
81                                       ~~~~~~~Page 10 of 14
n       a     r n       S       .      a.     S      *       S
S         *     * .4      ,,      ,.     n;     4      0
N"              -         -                 
iXl :   *  n  * "             S     f5 n    -     S 
-I             r4                      n                       a 
31  ^  *  F n    e        n     e nn            
11 ~ ~ ~  ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ f               p. .          -
~~~~~~~fl                                         |       -  
X | | | ~~~~~~~~n   o                                               a    
~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                         3
-e    .               .            .                . 
-  -.  - ~        ~    a               a       . S           .4   fi        p
U~ ~    ~ I.  SJS      a               -       0     5              ;*
-                n .4 a,g& g 4    
~~i~                    3 ^  4              * 3    :   :^               :
*                  If



Annex 7
82                           Page 11 of 14
SEYCHELLES
ENVIRONMENT AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
PRASLIN AIRPORT IMPROVEMENTS
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
(SR 000)
Local      Foreign
Currency     Exchange        Total
A. Apron Extension
40 mm thickness asphalt,              29.1        154.1        183.2
800 m2
B.  Runway Strengthening
15 mm thickness overlay of
1,190 m x 23 m                       223.9      1,029.2      1,253.1
TOTAL                                253.0      1,183.3      1,436.3



SEYCHELLES
EUVIROUKEXT AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
PRABLIN AIRPORT IKPROVE METS
COST EBTIhATES BY TEAR
(SR'000)
1993                        1994                        TOTAL
Local  Foreian  Total       Lcce1  Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign         Total
A.  Apron Extension                 14.5    77.0    91.5        14.6    77.1    91.7        29.1      154.1      183.2
B.  Runway StrengthenLng          111.9   514.6   626.5        112.0   514.6   626.6    223.9    1,029.2    1,253.1
TOTAL                        126.4   591.6   713.0        126.6   591.7   713.3    253.0   1,133.3   1,436.3
ODX
m m
0
0Q



Annex 7
84                               Page 13 of 14
SEYCHELLES
ENVIRONMNET AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
ROAD TRAFFIC SAFETY PROGRAM
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
(SR'000)
Local        Foreign
Currency       Exchanqe            Total
A.  Road Traffic Safety Study                  18.0           162.0           180.0
Sub-total                                  18.0           162.0          180.0
B.  Action Plan
1.  Street Lighting                       61.0           245.0           306.0
2.  Road Marking and Reflector.           121.0           183.0          304.0
3.  Crash Barriers                            -          611.0           611.0
4.  Road Signs                           101.0           408.0           509.0
5.  Construction of Footpaths            121.0           183.0           304.0
0.0
Sub-total                                404.0         1,630.0         2,034.0
TOTAL                                    422.0         1,792.0         2,214.0



invain   a.. aauuvouaC
a*5  wualrc .rmm rammaa
(sat see)}
mY  U        i 1994 In 3! 13*3
Loa    g     A     total     Le_ Se LML          216       rAwa-  rgc           otal  sO"Toa                           Loca   s2EL             Ttal
A.  Road !raffii  safety study              13.6    163.0    100.0           -         -        -          -         -        -                 .-          -       s6.0      163.0       16.0
*.    tIe   Plan
1.  St"rgt Ligtit                    12.2     49.0      61.2       10.3     73.5      01.0       18.3     73.5      01.0      12.2      49.0      01.2      61.0       243.0       306.0
2.  Road Uarkhal &ad fefleators        24.2      36.6     60.0       36.3     54.0      01.2       36.3     54.9      91.2       24.2     36.6      60.6     121.0       1S3.0       304.0
3.  Crash  ar-L.i-e                       -    305.5    303.5           -    305.5    305.5           -         -        -          -        -         -          -      611.0       611.0
4.  Read algas                         20.2      31.6    10.6        40.4    163.2    203.6        20.2     01.6    101.S        20.2     31.6    101.6      101.0       400.0       503.0
S.  comatrotios of rootpath.           48.4      73.3         -      48.4     73.2         -       24.2     36.6      60.3          -         -        -     12l.*       183.0       304.0
5SU-YYAL                         105.0    545.0    650.0       143.4    670.3    313.7        00.0    246.6    345.6        56.6    167.2    223.0       404.0    1,630.0    2*034.0
OD
lOYAL                            123.0    701.9   030.0        143.4    010.3    813.7        90.0    246.6    234.6       56.6    161.2    223.6       422.0    1,792.0    2.214.0
(IQ
I-.



Annex 8
86                                                 Page  1 of  1
SEYCHELLES
MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT, ECONOMIC PLANNING
AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS (MEPER)
ENVIRONMENT DIVISION
Organizational Chart
Minister
(MEPER)
Director-General
Environment Division
Technical Advisers                                                                         Information and
Education Unit
Admtnistration Secton
Forestry Sectlon                             Natonal Parks                          Environmental Assessment
and Conservation                              and Inspeton
Fore      Parks                 ~~~~Natlonal      CoievgnPoNutlon Control                      Environmental
stry  and Gardens             Parks            Coi~nand Inspection                          Assessmrent
und      Unk                     Unit                unw ~Unit             Unit
sads\w521 08



Annex 9
87                                   Page 1 of 1
SEYCHELLES
DIRECTORATE OF CIVIL AVIATiON
Organization Chart
AviationSafety    Manageenwt   FServs TnM Rescure
EKNJS23S5



SEYCHELLES
PUBUC UTILITIES CORPORATION
Organizational Structure
Eh.u"
Walar mid                -~~~~~Chmi
E;~~ I
SWervision~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*Iao
S--"  PAnourc"  Mainterumice ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~   Pernn 0anerv
B                              O
[  X
q W-e l t Wtw l dlwIS   X   qS   + =                          jEl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooI



Annex I 1
89                                         Page 1 of 1
LAND TRANSPORT DIVISION
MINISTRY OF TOURISM AND TRANSPORT
Organization Chart
Assto Cnt           etDir Nctor 
Adminiatrativ     d      General
Director,
Supervisory
and Technical
Services
Traffc                   Road Maintenance                    T*chnica
Managmn                      and Construction                   Support 
Socint                         S cUon                         Section
X 1
|  Supervido    a9=rl=:,o                 =on
Town Center         North             South
nd Great r         Mah6              Mah
Victoria



90                               Annex 12
Page 1 of 1
SEYCHELLES
ENVIRONMENT AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
ROAD SAFETY
The accident rate in Seychelles, at 19 deaths per 10,000 vehicles/year, compares
with 14 deaths per 10,000 vehicles/year in Mauritius and 4-5 in most industrialized countries.
The steep terrain, rainstorms, and congestion in built-up areas are partial explanations for the
high accident rate. Another is the modest standards which the authorities have adopted for their
road system: tight curves, small shoulders, and lack of sidewalks increase the risk of accidents.
Over the past several years, however, it has become clear that negligent driving is the single most
prevalent cause of accidents on Mahe and Praslin. Negligent driving now accounts for 92% of
all accidents. More specifically, about 40% of all accidents are caused by drunk drivers.
The number of accidents, and consequently the cost in property damage, personal
injury, and death has been increasing steadily (see Appendix 1 to this Annex). Insurance claims
paid nearly tripled between 1988 and 1991, and 80% of all claims filed are for road accidents.
In part because of the lack of physical separation between vehicles and pedestrians on many
roads, about one-third of all injuries are to pedestrians.
A Road Traffic Safety Commission, chaired by the Director-General of LTD, was
established in May 1992 to improve traffic flows at black spots, help with enforcement of traffic
regulations, and promote driver awareness of safety concerns. The first phase of its program is
a diagnostic and evaluation study, which will be supported by the project. Terms of Reference
for this study are included in Appendix 2 to this Annex. The study would define an Action Plan
to be carried out by LTD in collaboration with the Road Traffic Safety Commission.
The Action Plan would be implemented in the second phase of the road safety
campaign.  In this phase the project would support specific elements to implement the
recommendations of the study. These elements include (a) street lighting along main roads on
Mahe; (b) road marking; (c) installation of crash barriers to ward drivers of obstructions or built-
up zones; (d) road signs; and (e) construction of a 3-km footpath along a steep section of the
Cascade road, southwest of Victoria. Along this road, there is usually no separate pedestrian
walkway, and the accident rate is second only to Victoria. A footpath at this location can
therefore be expected to substantially reduce the accident rate involving pedestrians.
The campaign includes several other actions being taken in parallel with the first
and second phases defined above. A public awareness campaign was launched in June 1992, and
has featured a Road Safety Week held in October 1992. Assistance in the preparation of
information and educational materials has been offered by the National Safety Council of
Singapore. The UK Transport Research Laboratory (TRL, formerly TRRL) is helping the
country to computerize records on accidents.



91                                Annex 12
Appendix 1
SEYCHELLES
ENVIRONMENT AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Accidents by Vehicle and Year
Vehicle Type                     1998      1989    199      1991    Toa
Private cars                      818       933   1,047    1,069   3,867
Commercial vehicles               225       253      177     263      918
Self drive/hired cars             134       159      180      166     639
SPTC buses                        114       153      155      161     583
Taxis                              48        54       24      46      172
Government vehicles                94        76       79       82     331
Motorcycles                         7        18        3        8      36
Bicycles                            11        3        5        7      26
Trucks                               -        5        7        6      18
Diplomatic registration             5         1        1       3       10
Mechanical plant                    1         1        1       3        6
TOTAL                        1,457     1,656   1,679    1,814   6,606
Source: LTD and Road Traffic Safety Comuniision



92                              Annex 12
Appendix 2
SEYCHELLES
MINISTRY OF TOURISM AND TRANSPORT
LAND TRANSPORT DIVISION
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ROAD TRAFFIC SAFETY STUDY
The consultant will conduct a road safety study to propose a 5-year traffic safety
program for the Seychelles. The objectives of this study are to (a) carry out a diagnosis of the
existing situation, (b) propose actions necessary to ensure the improvement of road traffic safety
and (c) determine the cost effectiveness of the measures.
The study will focus on, but should not be limited to the following aspects:
(i)    A diagnosis of the current situation based on official accident records,
visits of the road network, traffic data and discussions with experienced
drivers, transport officials, insurance officials, and traffic police.
(ii)    An evaluation of the economic and social costs of road accidents.
(iii) Based on (i) and (ii) above, recommendations for the proposed course of
action will be made with due consideration being given to the following:
(a)   revision of the regulatory framework regarding traffic safety and
enforcement;
(b)    enforcement of traffic regulations including recommendations
concerning an appropriate institutional set-up;
(c)   improvements to existing traffic safety monitoring system;
(d)   improvements and extension of media/educational campaigns on
road safety;
(e)    appropriate improvements to the road infrastructure and/or
vehicles to improve road safety, based on economic analysis.
The study will be carried out by a traffic engineer/road safety specialist in
collaboration with a staff member of the Land Transport Division (LTD) of the Ministry of
Tourism and Transport. Financing for the traffic engineer/road safety specialist for a total of 8
specialist weeks is provided through financing made available to the Government of Seychelles
by the World Bank. The services of the LTD staff member plus local transportation and
appropriate work facilities are provided by LTD.
Field work is expected to account for at least 6 of the 8 specialist weeks of the
traffic engineer/road safety specialist. The draft final report should be sent to LTD for review
no later than 4 weeks after completion of the field work.



Annex 13
93                                   Page 1 of 1
AIR SEYCHELLES
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, 1989-91
---------------  SR000   ---------------
1989                1990              1991 a/
Gross Revenue                           139,957             220,440             239,053
Cost of Sales                           187,199             191,761             194,744
Administrative Expenses                  18,974              33,109               18,385
Operating Profit(Loss)                  (66,216)              (4,430)            25,924
Government Subsidy                       68,660              18,379
Net Interest Payable                      2,002               2,774                4,061
Profit(Loss)                                442              11,175               21,863
a/         Unaudited
Source:    Air Seychelles



94
Annex 14
SEYCHELLPS
ENVIRONMENT AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(USS MILUON)
Cumulative                 Undisbursed
Disbursements              Disbursements                 Balance
IBRD        Semester
Fiscal Year  Ending                   Amount           %         Amount             %         Amount            %
1993        December 1992                  0.0          0             0.0           0              4.5         100
June 1993                     0.8         18             0.8           18             3.7          82
1994        December 1993                  0.9         20             1.7          38              2.8          62
June 1994                     1.0         22             2.7           60             1.8          40
1995        December 1994                  0.8         18             3.5          78              1.0          22
June 1995                     0.3          7             3.8           85             0.7          16
1996        December 1995                  0.3          7             4.1          92              0.4           9
June 1996                     0.2          4             4.3           96             0.2           4
1997        December 1996                  0.2          4             4.5         100             0.0            0
losing Date: June 30, 1997



95                                  Anmex IS
Page I of 4
SEYC}ELLES
ENVIRONMENT AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Imnlementation Schedule and Superrision Plan
Implementation Schedule
The schedule given below provides details on the timing of steps to be taken
in the execution of all project activities. All contracts for civil works, acquisition of
equipment and materials, and consulting services will be awarded according to the
procurement procedures described in paras. 3.15 - 3.17.
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CY      1993         1994         1995        1996
I           I            I            I            I
Project Component                 I            1           I
A. Resource Management            I            I           I
1. Praslin Water Supply,                       I           I                  I
Phase II                       IBE----- I             MI              I            I
2. Water Resources                I            I           I            I            I
Management Plans                IR--R---IE----- Ml --E---- I
3. Marine Resources               I            I           I            I            I
Management Plans               I R---E-- I ------Ml--------4--                    1
4. Organizational Study           I            I           I            I            I
Division Environment           I R---       I         MI              I            I
B. Biodiversity Conservation      I            I           I            I
and Marine Pollution Abatement I            I           I            I
1. Aldabra Ecosystem              I BR---E-             M------MI--------1--        I
2. Protection of SeaTurtles       I R--R--- I  ----- MI --------R4---               1
3. Waste Reception Facilities Study    I R- --    I      M II                        I
C. Transport                      I            I           I            I
1. Praslin Road Improvements      I B-E---- I R-----MI -              I            I
2. Praslin Airport Improvements   I B----   I             Ml            I
3. Road Traffic Safety            I B - - -E-- I --E - - -MI - - - - - - El --------4
Abbreviations
B: Bid or design preparation, evaluation, and contract award
E: Acquisition of equipment
M: Mid-term Review
R: Recruitment of consultants, advisers, and specialists



96                              Annex 15
Page 2 of 4
Supervision Objectives and Organization
Supervision of the Environment and Transport project, and of the GEF
program on Biodiversity Conservation and Abatement of Marine Pollution, will be a joint
effort of the Bank and the Government of Seychelles. Both major participants in supervision
would solicit, as required, the assistance of implementing ministries and agencies, NGOs, the
private sector, and external donors. Supervision of specific project actions will focus on
review of progress, procurement actions, progress reporting, financial record-keeping, and the
like. In turn, this supervision will influence and be influenced by more general assessments
of progress of the Environmental Management Plan of Seychelles (EMPS). Supervision of
the project, GEF program, and EMPS will take place under the general guidance of MEPER.
The Bank expects to be requested by the Government of the Netherlands to
administer a Trust Fund of up to US$500,000 for biodiversity conservation, coastal zone
management, and institutional support. Supervision would therefore include the actions
supported by this Trust Fund.
Supervision Plan
The schedule of supervision activities, with resource requirements and
estimated Bank staff inputs, is given below.
Emphasis                  Expected            Bank input
Dates        Activity            Skill Requirements         (staff-weeirs)
2/93         Completion          Spec. Environmental               1
Org. Study          Management
of DOE
2/93         Completion          Road safety spec.                 1
Road Safety        (cons.)
Action Plan         Highway engineer
Water master
plans
3/93         Supervision Mission   Economist/financial            5
and project launch    analyst
Biodiversity spec.
Sanitary engineer
Highway engineer
National Coordinator
4/93         Launch              Civil engineer(Mgr.)              1
Praslin Roads       National Coordinator
program



97                       _       Anne 1S
Page 3 of 4
6/93         Aldabra Program      Exec. Dir. SIF                     2
National Coordinator
Ecologist
9/93         Completion of        Biodiversity spec.                 7
MARPOL study        Port engineer
Praslin WS          Economist/financial
Water resources     analyst
and Marine plans    Sanitary engineer
Supervision Mission   Marine biologist
11/93        Turtle ranching      Biodiversity spec.                3
study evaluation    Economist/engineer
Airport improvements National Coordinator
Road safety data    Turtle spec. consultant
collection
12/93        Accounts and         Project accountant                 I
financial reporting    National Coordinator
3/94         Praslin roads        Highway engineer                   5
evaluation          Construction industry
Water and Marine    specialist
plans               Training spec.
Artisan training    Marine biologist
Supervision Mission
4/94         Green turtle         Biodiversity spec.                 I
stock assessment
7/94         Aldabra program      Exec. Dir. SEF                     3
National Coordinator
Biodiversity spec.
Financial analyst/
economist
9/94         Road safety review    Aviation spec.                    5
Praslin airport     Biodiversity spec.
improvements and    Road safety cons.
master plan
Supervision Mission



98                              Annex 1S
Page 4 of 4
11/94        Mid-Term Project    National Coordinator               8
Review              Economist/financial
analyst
Port engineer
Biodiversity spec.
2/95         Water resources      Water engineer/spec.              2
data maintenance
3/95         Water resources      Economist/financial               6
Marine resources    analyst
Supervision mission   Water engineer
Marine biologist
National Coordinator
5/95         Implementation       Biodiversity spec.                4
of turtle management  National Coordinator
plans
9/95         GEF follow-up        Biodiversity spec.                6
EMPS mid-course    National Coordinator
review preparation    Financial analystl
Supervision mission   Economist
1/96         EMPS mid-course    National Coordinator                8
review              cons. specialists from
at least 5 EMPS program
categories
3/96         Supervision mission   Biodiversity spec.               5
Economist/financial analyst
Marine biologist
Water resources spec.
9/96         Supervision mission   Marine biologist                 5
Ecologist
Road safety spec.
79



99                             A
Page 1 of 5
SEYCHELLES
ENVIRONMENT AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Prors Reportine and Key Indicators
Progre. Reportlng
Reports on progress of actions supported by the Bank loan and the GEF program
will be prepared quarterly under the direction of the National Coordinator's office, MEPER.
While providing details on implementation, the reports will focus especially on (i) the extent to
which actions carried out have had the desired impact on development objectives of the
operations; (ii) problems of management and organization that implementation has brought into
sharper focus within each implementing agency; and (iii) participation of the intended
beneficiaries in benefits derived from the operations.
The format for quarterly reports (will be) discussed during negotiations. The
draft format is given below.
Seychelles: Environment and Transport Project
Format for Quarterly Reports
I.    Situation at end of previous reporting period
(including summary of develomental objectives
and main features of operation)
H.    EMPS Implementation Issues
m.   Review of Progress by Program and Sub-Program
A.    Resource Management Program
1.    Praslin Water Supply, Phase H
2.    Water Resource and Water Management Plans
for Outer Islands
3.    Marine Resources Management Plans
4.    Organizational Study of Division of
Environment



100                             Anne 16
Page 2 of 5
B.    Biodiversity Protection and Marine Pollution
Abatement Program
1.    Aldabra Restoration and Preservation
2.    Protection of Sea Turtles
3.    Waste Reception Facilities Study
C.    Transprt Program
1.    Praslin Road Rehabilitation Program
2.    Praslin Airport Improvements
3.    Road Traffic Safety Program
IV.   Impacts and Consequences of Project Activities
A.    Environmental Preservation
B.    Training and Capacity Building
C.    The Local Economy
D.    Living Standards and Welfare
ANNEXE
Annex 1:     Six-month Future Work Program
Annex 2:     Procurement Summary
Annex 3:     Progress of Disbursements
Annex 4:     Key Indicators
Key Indicators
As shown above, progress toward project objectives as measured by key
performance indicators is an integral part of progress reporting and one for which the
implenenting agencies and MEPER will be accountable.
Performance indicators will be represented both as benchmarks and as interim
measures of progregs. Each quarterly report will compare actual progress achieved with two



101                              Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
benchmark indicators:  the ultimate objectives initially set, and the extent to which these
objectives should have been met in the month and year in question.
It is recognized that for activities expected to significantly improve the current
data base, such as the water resources and marine resources studies and the turtle stock
assessments, not all indicators will have been defined at the start but will emerge during the
course of implementation.
Below, grouped by category, are the proposed core indicators to be maintained
throughout the implementation period, and to be supplemented by others identified later. It is
expected that quantitative information for Section C will not be substantial at the beginning, but
would be supplied largely through special evaluations such as the Mid-Term Review.
A.    Framework for Implementation
1.    Financial covenants
2.    Undertakings of Government and of
implementing agencies
3.    Legislation
4.    Budget requests and allocations
B.    Program and Sub-Program Indicators
1.    Praslin Water Supply, Phase H
*     % competion
*     dry weather flows
(service reliability)
*     cost reductions PUC
2.    Water Resources Management Plans
*     % completion of hydrological,
meteorological, and geotechnical surveys
*     establishment of benchmarks
and monitoring of water quality
*     preparation of management plans
3.    Marine Resources Management Plans
establishment of benchmarks and
monitoring of catches:
*     tuna
*     lobster
*     artisanal reef fisheries



102                              Amex 16
Page 4 of 5
4.    Organizational Study of Div. Environment
% completion/stage reached
5.    Aldabra
*     procurement progress and % completion,
research facility
*     % completion goat eradication program
*     recruitment scientific and managerial
staff
*     % completion long term management plan
6.    Biodiversity Conservation
*     % completion turtle ranching study
*     % completion turtle trade compensation study
3     No. artisans reinstalled
-     training completed
3     % completion stock assessment
7.    Marine Pollution
3     % completion waste reception facilities study
S.    Praslin Roads
3     procurement progress and % completion
3     maintenance expenditures per km
3     training completed
9.    Praslin Airport
*     procurement progress and % completion
*     flight frequency
10.   Road Safety
*     accident rate Mahe and Praslin
*     police accident reporting system:
introduction and functioning of MAAP system



103                                 ex  16
Page 5 of 5
C.    Indicators of Impact
1.     Number and type of persons benefiting
2.     Biodiversity trends (numbers of individuals)
3.     Praslin development (No. of bed-nights,
vehicle fleet, air passenger arrivals)



Annex 17
104                              Page 1 of l
SEYCHELLES
ENVIRONMENT AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
PRASLIN ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Economic Analysis
(SR'OOO)
ANSE BOUDIN ROAD          ANSE CONSOLATION ROAD         ANSE KERLAN ROAD
Year
Cost   Benefits   Net   Cost        Benefits    Net   Cost        Benefits   Net
1992
1993     1867               -1867       1921              -1921        971                -971
1994      1867       801    -1066       1921       495    -1426        971       192      -779
1995                 833       833                 515       515                 207       207
1996                 866       866                 535       535                 223       223
1997                 901       901                 557       557                 242       242
1998                 937       937                 579       579                 261       261
1999                 975       975                 602       602                 282       282
2000                1014      1014                 626       626                 293       293
2001                1054      1054                 651       651                 305       305
2002                1096      1096                 677       677                 317       317
2003                1140      1140                 705       705                 330       330
2004                1186      1186                 733       733                 343       343
2005                1233      1233                 762       762                 357       357
2006                1282      1282                 793       793                 371       371
2007                1334      1334                 824       824                 386       386
2008                1387      1387                 857       857                 401       401
2009                1443      1443                 891       891                 417       417
Economic Return           27.0%                         15.1%                          12.7%



105                           Annex 18
Page 1 of 3
SEYCHELLES
ENVIRONMENT AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
PUC PRASLIN/LA DIGUE WATER DIVISION
Actual and Projected Income Statements for the year ended March 31
(current SR '000)
Actual     -------------------  Projected  ----------------------
1992      1993       1994      1995      1996    1997
Income
Water Sales            2,378      2,497     2,613      2,715    2,761   2,790
2,378     2,497      2,613      2,715    2,761   2,790
Ex2enses
Personnel Emoluments   1,012      1,042       886        729      729      729
Admin. Expenses          100        103       108        112       118     125
Trans & Equipment        755       777        700        540      540      540
Other Operating exp.     470       484        460        435      452      470
Interest expense           -          -        60         60       60       60
Depreciation expenses      -        131       521        509      498      487
2,337     2,537      2,778      2,614    2,603   2,594
Net Income                41       (40)      (122)       330      364      379
Working Ratio           98%        96%       85%        70%       70%     70%
Return on Net Fixed Assets                             2.0%    2.2%    2.3%
Assumptions
Demand assumed at 900 m3/day for 1994, 935 m3/day for 1995, 950 m3/day for 1996
and 960 m3/day in 1997
Straight line depreciation at 2.5% per annum.
Praslin/La Digue water assets are valued at SR 21 million
Local inflation is estimated at 3% for 1993 and 4% thereafter
8% interest per annum on loan of SR 0.75 million



106                          Annex 18
Page 2 of 3
SEYCHELLES
ENVIRONMENT AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Road Sector Revenue and Expenditure
(SR million)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   1995
------- Actual --------   ------  Projected  -----
Revenue
Vehicles and driving licences 1/  4.3    4.6      4.6      4.8      5.1     5.5
Recurrent Expenditures
Road Maintenance                  2.9    4.9       3.9     4.9      4.9     4.9
LTD Administration                4.3    4.4       4.4     4.5      4.7     4.9
7.2    9.3      8.3     9.4      9.6     9.8
Budget Allocations                7.2    9.3       8.3     9.4     9.6      9.8
Source: Seychelles Government, Treasury Department, July 1992
1/  Not including fuel taxes or customs duties. Estimated annual increase of 6%.



107                           Annex 18
Page 3 of 3
SEYCHELLES
ENVIRONMENT AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Praslin Aerodrome
Revenue and Expenditures
Actual     -----Projected---------------
1992       1993       1994        1995
----------------------SR 000---
Revenues:
Landing & other fees 1/                    500       1,049       1,103      1,161
500      1,049       1,103      1,161
Expenditures:2/
Salaries & Allowances                      698         719        748         778
Maintenance                                108         111        115         120
Other expenses                             171         176        183         190
977      1,006       1,046      1,088
Surplus (Deficit)                        (477)          43         57         73
1/ Based on 8% increase in passenger traffic, and increase in landing fees from SR 15 to
SR 30 per 1,000 kg of permissible weight of aircraft. Base year FY92 - 150,000
passengers. 1992 revenues includes miscellaneous income of 160,000 for non-passenger
traffic demand per year constant through 1995
2/ Reflect price contingencies of 3% in 1993 and 4% thereafter.



108                              AnnexA.19
Page 1 of 2
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Economy and Society
1.    World Bank, Seychelles: Country Brief. June 1992.
2.    Seychelles Strategy for Sustainable Development. National Report of Seychelles for
the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, June 1992.
3.    Seychelles, Statistical Abstract 1990. Management and Information Systems Division,
Ministry of Administration and Manpower, 1991.
4.    Seychelles, National Income and Expenditure. 1989. Management and Information
Systems Division, Ministry of Administration and Manpower, 1991.
5.    M. Bogdan, "The Law of Mauritius and Seychelles," Swedish law journal, 1990.
6.    Seychelles, Ministry of Planning and External Relations, National Development Plan,
1990-94. 1990.
Environment
1.    Seychelles, Environmental Action Plan. 1990-2000. Government of Seychelles, June
1990.
2.    Ministry of Education and Information, Conserving the Environment: The Seychelles
Environment, 1986.
3.    Ministry of Education and Information, Conserving the Environment: A Focus on
Aldabra, 1991.
4.    N. Jivan Shah, Nature and Tourism in Seychelles, 1990.
5.    World Conservation Union, Protected Areas of the World: A Review of National
Systems, 1992.
Transport
1.    Ministry of Planning and External Relations, NDP 1985-89: A Review of the
Transport Sector. 1985-87.
2.    Halcrow Fox, Land Use and Transportation Study for Mahe. Final Report, 1978.
3.    Land Transport Division, Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance in Seychelles, 1991.
4.    Land Transport Division, Sectoral Analysis Paper. Land Transport, 1992.



109                              Annex 19
Page 2 of 2
Documents related to the Project
1.    Land Transport Division, Project Memorandum. Praslin Main Road Improvements,
1992.
2.    Global Environment Facility, Report by the Chairman to the December 1991
Participants' Meeting, 2 vols., 1991.
3.    R. F. Einthoven, Proposed Road Improvements on Praslin Island: Environmental
Assessment and Economic Evaluation, December 1991.
4.    Land Transport Division, Praslin Road Improvements: Detailed Engineering Report,
June 1992.
5.    Audit of Accounts of Seychelles Island Foundation for 1991.
6.    World Bank, mission reports.
7.    Directorate of Civil Aviation, Project Memorandum on Praslin Airport Improvements,
March 1992.






IBRD 23522
i   1    \  (                    ~~~~~~~~~~S E Y C H E L L E S
GEF INVESTMENT:
ABATEMENT OF MARINE POLLUTION
VICTORIA FISHING AND COMMERCIAL PORTS
*5b 9 t PROPOSED LOCATION OF PROJECT
0  >   < COMPONENTS
r     PORT FACILITIES
______ WROADS
DREDGED AREAS
VESSEL                I                CORALREEFS
\<NM )  )     T UTURNING                        -     ISOBATHS IN METERS
(<HARBOU_5a=Y               ~~~~~~~      ~ ~~~~BASIN  Q              0    o 30 40 S
t  |  i\ LOFNCi \ < S 0 0 0 f t Th- mo iW-+ ^ Fa.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hooo ho bo~p pos  ,sThdW- SBok'
a<//<                                                {gRS_n  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MTR
a .f,-z ax  y=   =t   o T.  dtaoSt. 
\~~~~~~~N S/~M          /tOh.T OLi                        i/T sX                   *    CWs*  O  sI
* ft. ~~~I LaDOt  6
MODOtA 5-           G..D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo ooa.,.loo.f,o dao otnoi.
---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&oyo W/1
FEBRUARY 199,
5LANfl
* SOLIO ~~~~~~~ASTE  5~~~ EYCHL!  ,  Oa.aAo  I-,
~  ,,J  Ia.%    ~ I. NND AN  OCE-
IC-V-4d. Cnq. SOof
FEBRUARY~,   199:






4AAlS1                                                 *5520'                                                  4Ai25'                                                  4A30
SEYCHELLES
GEF INVESTMENT: BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION
ALDABRA ISLAND
I N D I A N                     O C E A N
|  PoIy,.n,                                ' lie  Molabor            or        Middle  Islond
RESEARCH t
STATION      '
'e' A   ..J          Grande  Terre
L      c    c    ^  n                                                                                                    r o
@e E.,.i V _' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S o u                                                                               h|sIon dl
A.- m-'I I,.'
011`-
-.1                   '              .              I 
Terre            o r                                                          RESEARCH STATION                           KENYA_,
*    OTHER BUILDINGS                             K
TRACKS OR EOOTPATHS
, MANGROVE SWAMPS
CHANNELS
9-30'                                                                                                                           SHAUOW AREAS WITHIN LAGOON                                                  SEYCHEtLES
TNAIA                                    ...
-  -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                INDIA   O-PAN
o     I     2     3      A     5      6     7     aEKLOMrETt AERI SApA. 
2         3         4          m.sES                        ,          A        . A   C-tFA
I N'V D   1 ,s          j       !A   I N      N                                                     M. p bh. b- pn       b, TW    8"', -N b     tly 6
-d  ,d              1W d.   _ 1 _6 WI  tm t                      RMEi ,_/t t'5  s
80 1=    Th. d...oi-.., -.d .d d .o    A --  O.;
t  6. dA tiuI. - _p.1 Th F;d. W.S    G-p   -* Z                                            I,
AV13                                                   41-2V                                                   44-25                                         MAUAGASCAA






IBRD 2352-
/                  .                         \                                                 Booby; I    MJip       GrondiM
4  /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                  \              IJost~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.h 1.          A- d Abp L.Dg 
/& roi                                                                                                               u CURJEUSE SLANDI  C r A
rrW r>~~~~~~~*e                                                                                                         M.-  ,fdl. 1.
CHEVALIER  SAY        A:                     4 4 ~           -                                                                           c
AME LAZIO    N.-                                 S 1d I                                                                                                Fo   l
Fs-                  SAvO~~~~~~wY .                                      CURiEU'SF  PAY
STATE LNED                                                 r >  C Ao
-y                                      4'         \>                      ZnpEs 
,                  -                                      R         A S LI N
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       E2/>                   E TA  E                                              P,.vDE_
SEYCHELLES                       GiiN 'NE -|_-~'[                                                                                                         >      L  cr
ENVIRONMENTAND TRANSPORT  GR                                    EACODAEERTE -         /-   -             -                   d
PROJECT                                                                                --      *<    P,on4 ,
Praslin Improvement Program                                                                 ATlOhA   EAA   O, L'A            /'
ROADS                          WATER SUPPLY
POOSED                          P95ROSED                            'O                              A RnOU
ANID aD(t4M                     AND EaYNWOE'                                      ST SAWVEUR                                                                                ISLAND
-     A5^T AYINO,                                                                       ESTATFFO AD
AEdWATPAYENIANID sRIAY          AND _M
*05114090605 EE1W.                                                                                                           FERDINAND        0     N    Cob    ,s Th t mop ho. btn pr.poENd by
TWVAWI  I "S ~ 199C        L   Kw5                          0                           1NSOLATION A     ... ....                                         .......... ANSE EIOU1 ME  Gp.Th.o..... otbtoD  nod
-404 to" oRmKl        L        D        c 95TSOhRSA_ o ooft   *w'M
O    #E4TS              "   rJGVS              O~5mwn                   1              2             3                   PwC- nlt'ny-^                                    ro
0    rnw&lmNT                         5
No CocosV.
P.=cS                                                     1__2
Sr.,b. 1 992



