GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
SEYCHELLES
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION AND
MARINE POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
December 1992
PROJECT DOCUMENT



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency                     Seychelles Rupee (SR)
Exchange Rate                $1.00 = SR 5.0
$0.20 = SR 1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                       US/UK
1 ha                         2.47 acres
1 km                         0.62 miles
1 km2                        0.386 square mile
1 kg                         2.2 pounds
I metric ton                 2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFTC                  Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation (UK)
CITES                 Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species
CODEVAR               Compagnie pour le developpement de l'Artisanat, Limited
DOE                   Department of Environment
DOI                   Department of Industry
EC                    European Community
EMPS                  Environmental Management Plan of Seychelles
FAC                   Fonds d'aide et de cooperation (France)
GEF                   Global Environment Facility
GET                   Global Environment Trust Fund
ICBP                  International Council for Bird Preservation
IDC                   Islands Development Company
IMO                   International Maritime Organization
IUCN                  International Union for the Conservation of Nature
MARPOL                International Convention for the Prevention of Marine
Pollution from Ships
MEPER                 Ministry of Environment, Economic Planning, and Extemal
Relations
MTT                   Ministry of Transport and Tourism
ORSTOM                Organisation des recherches scientifiques et techniques
d'Outre-mer (France)
PMSD                  Ports and Marine Services Division, Ministry of Tourism and
Transport
RSNC                  Royal Society for Nature Conservation
SFA                   Seychelles Fishing Authority
SIF                   Seychelles Island Foundation
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program
UNDTCD                United Nations Department for Technical Cooperation and
Development
UNEP                  United Nations Environment Program
GOVERNMENT OF SEYCHELLES FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



SEYCHELLES
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION AND
MARINE POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Recipient:                  Government of Seychelles
Beneficiaries:              Ministry of Environment, Economic Planning, and External
Relations (MEPER); Seychelles Island Foundation (SIF); Ports
and Marine Services Division (PMSD); Seychelles Fishing
Authority (SFA)
Amount:                     SDR 1.3 million (US$1.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Grant from Global Environment Trust Fund
Financing Plan:
Local Foreign        Total
Source                          (US$ million)
Global Environment
Trust Fund (GET) Grant      0.6    1.2           1.8
Government                  0.2    0.0           0.2
TOTAL                       0.8    1.2           2.0
Economic Rate of Return:    Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:     No. 1 1259-SEY
Maps:                       IBRD 23521
IBRD 23522






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE DIRECTOR
SOUTH-CENTRAL AND INDIAN OCEAN DEPARTMENT
TO THE REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
Background
1.           Seychelles, a group of 115 islands situated in the western Indian Ocean between
4 degrees and 11 degrees south of the equator, contains the world's only oceanic archipelago
made up of continental granite. These granitic islands (about 40) are typically mountainous with
steep, forested slopes and narrow coastal strips of sand or mangrove. The other, more outlying
islands are coral, consisting mostly of sand cays built upon coral reefs. The islands, with a total
land area of 455 km2, are scattered in a territorial sea covering 1,374,000 km2 and separated by
as much as 1,200 km. For the most part the islands are situated outside the area affected by
cyclones. However, some important climatic differences do exist due to the distance between
islands and differences in altitude between the granitic and coralline islands.
2.           Having evolved in isolation for millions of years, Seychelles possesses unique
flora and fauna. There are about 770 species of flowering plants on the central, granitic islands
and another 400 species on the outer, coralline islands. Of these, at least 75 species of flowering
plants, 15 of birds, 3 of mammals, 30 of reptiles and amphibians and several hundred species of
snails, insects, spiders and other invertebrates are endemic (found nowhere else). At least 51
genera of corals have been recorded from the central islands, and 47 from the coral island of
Aldabra alone. The marine habitat supports an even richer fauna than the land. There exist at
least 900 species of marine fish, of which at least one-third are associated with coral
communities. Ecological features of islands combined with isolation result in certain endemic
species being confined not just to the Seychelles, but to a single island. The black paradise
flycatcher on La Digue, the black parrot on Praslin, the brush warbler on Cousin, and a flightless
rail on Aldabra are all examples of highly localized endemism. New plants and animals are often
discovered when a scientific expedition visits the islands. An entirely new ecosystem (the Mapou
de Grand Bois community, on Silhouette island) was discovered as recently as 1983.
3.           The isolation of the islands has also, however, made the resident species quite
vulnerable. Many populations are small, have a low breeding rate, and have evolved in stable,
and thus fragile, habitats. Human settlement, and its attendant overexploitation of species and
attempts to reorganize island ecosystems, has caused declines in populations.  Moreover,
Seychelles must rely to a great extent on maritime transport for imports. This, along with the
rapid development of an industrial tuna fishery, has led to a sharp increase in shipping activities
at the country's main port of Victoria. The resulting marine pollution has become a growing
problem.
4.           Environmental Strategies.  As a series of small and vulnerable ecosystems,
Seychelles has long been aware of the need to use and manage its resources on a sustainable
basis. The country has seen rapid growth since independence, attaining a per capita GNP
estimated in 1991 at $5,160 with health and education standards comparable to those of many
developed countries. The two main sources of growth, tourism and fisheries, both depend for



2
their well-being on a healthy environment.  The government has therefore committed itself to
an explicit policy of sustainable economic development. This policy calls for public and private
investment to be fully consistent with the environmental objectives of (a) protection of unique or
endangered species and ecosystems; (b) development of health and environmental quality
standards for air, water, noise and marine pollution, effective disposal of solid wastes and
sewage, and worker health and safety; (c) sustainable use of renewable resources and efficient
use of non-renewable resources and ecosystems; (d) mandating of environmental impact analysis
for major development projects; (e) improvements in public information and training programs
on the linkages between environment and development; and (f) expansion of participation in
regional and international organizations dealing with the environment.
5.           In view of the breadth of the environmental strategies adopted, the government
has attempted to integrate environmental and natural resource management issues into all the
relevant economic sector strategies in its most recent National Development Plan (NDP), for
1990-94. The environment and natural resource management projects and portions of projects
in the NDP were then expanded and brought together during 1990-91 in an Environmental
Management Plan for Seychelles (EMPS). The EMPS thus became a more detailed and
operational extension of the NDP. The EMPS also includes the legal and institutional measures
necessary to ensure that all other projects in the NDP support sustainability. Preparation of the
EMPS was supported with assistance from the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP),
UNDP, the UN Department of Technical Cooperation for Development (UNDTCD), and the
Bank. The process made environmental officials more conscious of limitations in the scope and
coverage of environmental legislation, the resources required for enforcing protection measures,
and the need for a better information base for decision-making. The EMPS, containing 52
projects, was presented to donors at a meeting in Paris in February 1991. Donor commitments
to EMPS programs include the European Community (EC) (coastal zone management), UNDP
(information, training, and monitoring), the French aid agency (FAC) (environmental assessment
guidelines), the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation (CFTC) (offshore oil drilling
control program), and the African Development Bank (waste management), among others. Most
recently, the Netherlands has pledged support for a Trust Fund for management of coastal
ecosystems, protection of biodiversity, and institutional support. The Netherlands government
is expected to ask the Bank to administer this trust fund. A detailed description of the EMPS and
implementation issues associated with it is contained in Annex 1.
6.            EMPS projects will be carried out by a wide range of public and private groups.
The proposed GEF program will support the implementation of several urgent EMPS actions.
Overall supervision of the GEF actions and of the EMPS more generally will be entrusted to the
Ministry of Environment, Economic Planning, and External Relations (MEPER).
7.            Environmental Policies and Institutions. Efforts to protect vulnerable areas and
species began in 1778, only eight years after the islands were first settled, when the French
commandant tried to limit the taking of crocodiles, giant tortoises, and other species. Early
efforts did not succeed: sea cows, the Seychelles race of giant tortoises (as opposed to the
Aldabra variety), and several birds, as well as the crocodiles, have all been eliminated. Over the
years, many reefs have been mined for coral to use in construction, islands cratered as guano was
extracted, and mangrove forests drained. Introduced plants outcompeted much of the native
vegetation, which was also destroyed by fire, absent from the islands as long as they were
uninhabited.



3
8.            Real conservation began in the late 1960s, with the creation of the National Parks
and Nature Conservancy Commission (later the Seychelles National Environment Commission)
and the conferring of full responsibility for the management and preservation of Cousin island
to the International Council for Bird Preservation (ICBP). Regulations issued in 1971 under the
National Parks and Nature Conservancy Act provided the basis for the network of national parks
and preserves which now amounts to 42% of the land area of the country and about 27,000 ha
of surrounding seas and reefs. Other specific legislation protects land birds, sea birds and their
eggs, marine turtles, shells, marine mammals, at least 25 species of trees, and giant tortoises.
Spear-gun fishing, dynamite fishing, trawling, and other destructive practices have been banned.
Following the Cousin island example, Aride island has been managed since 1973 by the Royal
Society for Nature Conservation (RSNC). In 1979, the Seychelles Island Foundation (SIF), a
charitable trust with international and local members on the Board of Trustees, was established
to manage Aldabra, the world's largest coral atoll and a rich environment for terrestrial and
marine life. SIF now manages the Vallee de Mai national park on Praslin island in addition to
Aldabra, both of which have been designated World Heritage Sites. Seychelles has also played
a major role in international conservation, especially in securing approval from the International
Whaling Commission for an Indian Ocean Sanctuary for whales, and in launching the proposal
for what is now the UNDP Convention for the Protection, Management, and Development of the
Marine and Coastal Environment of the Eastern Africa Region.
9.            Legislation alone will not result in protection unless it is accompanied by
enforcement, monitoring, research, information, and grass-roots participation. Deficiencies in
enforcement and monitoring, caused largely by scarcities of funds and personnel, are the main
reasons for the gap between the country's expressed desire to manage its environment and the
actual protection of that environment. Problems of inter-agency communication and the absence
of clear lines of responsibility clouded the issues further during most of the 1980s. In response
to these concerns, a Department of Environment (DOE) was established in the Office of the
President in June 1989.  DOE has been the main instrument for the attainment of the
government's environmental objectives. DOE and its three sections (Forestry, Conservation and
National Parks, and Environmental Assessment and Inspection) were integrated in May 1992 as
the Environment Division in the Ministry of Environment, Economic Planning, and External
Relations (MEPER).  This should strengthen the coordination between environment and
development planning. It should also give the Environment Division added authority in securing
adequate budgets for environment, and in requiring environmental impact assessments for all
major development projects. Budgetary allocations in 1990 and 1991 were adequate to finance
the operational budget of DOE, but care will need to be taken that future budgetary provisions
fully meet the increased demands of implementation of the EMPS.
Project Objectives
10.           Of the EMPS programs, actions to protect biodiversity and to limit the pollution
of the international waters around Seychelles were identified as the most supportive of the goals
of the GEF. The GEF program therefore contains two components: biodiversity conservation,
and abatement of marine pollution. One objective of the biodiversity conservation component
of this project is to restore equilibrium of the threatened ecosystem of Aldabra, a remarkable
environment that contains the only natural population of giant land tortoises (Geochelone
gigantea) left in the Indian Ocean (the only other population, of a different species of giant
tortoise, is in the Galapagos Islands).  Aldabra, located 1,200 km southwest of the main
Seychelles island of Mahe, has up to now been accessible only by a boat trip lasting several days.



4
Recent construction of an airstrip on the neighboring island of Assomption, however, will greatly
improve the future access of Aldabra, and makes a comprehensive preservation program all the
more urgent. Under the GEF program, SIF would develop monitoring and conservation
programs and promote international research on Aldabra by improving the capacity of the
research station, restoring the natural ecosystem through control of an introduced species, and
strengthening its managerial and scientific capacities. The consequences of these and other
activities aimed at the restoration and preservation of the Aldabra ecosystem will be described
in a long-term management plan that will be prepared for the atoll as part of the GEF program.
11.          One of the most remarkable groups in the Seychelles fauna is the marine turtles.
Another objective of the biodiversity conservation component is consequently to carry out
comprehensive management plans to restrict or prohibit the exploitation of marine turtles in
accordance with the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora (CITES), to which Seychelles acceded in 1977. The sea turtle species that breed in the
Seychelles islands, and for which management plans will be prepared and carried out as part of
the GEF program, are the Green (Chelonia mydas) and Hawksbill (Eretmochelys imbricata)
turtles.
12.          Actions to reduce ship-generated pollution of the sea are essential for preserving
the marine environment. Most urgently needed are adequate facilities at the Port of Victoria to
receive and dispose of waste from ships. The main objective of the marine pollution abatement
component is to support the study and design of facilities that would improve the capacity of the
port to handle ship wastes.  The facilities would enable Seychelles to comply with the
requirements of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships
(MARPOL Convention), which was ratified by the Seychelles government in 1990.
Project Description
Biodiversity Conservation
13.          Restoration and Preservation of Aldabra Ecosystem.  The program for the
restoration and preservation of Aldabra consists of four parts: (i) rehabilitation of the scientific
research facility on Picard island, Aldabra; (ii) provision of personnel to strengthen SIF research
and conservation management; (iii) control of feral goats on islands *of the atoll; and (iv)
preparation of a long-term management plan for Aldabra. The research station on Aldabra, now
20 years old, is in urgent need of repair and renovation. The GEF project would support
upgrading of the laboratory, accommodation block, rest area, and clinic, construction of a
sanitation system, reconstruction of the slipway, and provision of boats and other equipment.
14.          To strengthen the management of Aldabra, SIF proposes to recruit two scientists
with managerial experience. The role of these managers would be to oversee the upgrading of
services, provide guidance to visiting scientists, help ensure a suitable quality standard for
scientific research, carry out monitoring, and contribute to the long-term management plan. The
GEF project would cover salary complements for external assistance as well as overseas social
security contributions for a period of two years, in addition to overseas travel expenses and a
vehicle.
15.          The unique value of Aldabra continues to be threatened by non-native species
introduced decades ago, especially goats. A severe threat to the giant tortoise population, goats



5
compete for food with the tortoises and destroy the trees and shrubs which the tortoises need for
shade. Goat control has been attempted on Aldabra since research began. Under the GEF
program the scientists responsible for the earlier campaign will plan and lead a one-year program
aimed at controlling the goat population. The program can be extended by six months if
necessary.
16.           Long-range planning for Aldabra is vital, to ensure that the easier access to the
atoll yields greater scientific knowledge without encouraging encroachment on the ecosystem.
The GEF project would support the preparation of a long-term management plan for Aldabra,
that would address critical issues such as the number and frequency of visits by non-scientists,
area designation for conservation purposes, supervision of visitors while on the island, liaison
with other reserves and national parks in Seychelles, and the prospects for ecotourism programs.
17.           A more detailed description of the Aldabra program and terms of reference for
the long-term management plan are found in Annex 4.
18.           Protection of Sea Turtles. The Green turtle protection program would define the
sustainable exploitation level for the Green turtle to accommodate domestic consumption.
Technical assistance would be provided for two years to undertake a stock assessment and prepare
the Management Plan. The sustainable offtake would be determined as part of the management
plan, and would take into account the internal trade in Green turtle meat between the islands of
Seychelles, in particular from the outer islands to the main island of Mahe.
19.           The Hawksbill turtle protection program would include a feasibility study of
Hawksbill turtle ranching, a turtle trade compensation study, retraining and compensation for
artisans presently working turtle shells, and educational materials for Seychellois and tourists on
the consequences of trade in and purchase of turtle products. On the basis of experience
elsewhere, the chances of a turtle ranching operation succeeding in Seychelles are remote. To
accurately gauge these chances, the feasibility study will aim to estimate the full costs (often
underestimated in past studies) as well as benefits of such an operation. The existing practice of
not issuing licenses for the taking of Hawksbill turtles will be supplemented by a ban on the
capture of Hawksbill turtles and of trade in turtle products. Finally, equipment, training, and
revenue compensation will assist turtle shell artisans to pursue other lines of work. Compensation
will take the form of technical assistance, equipment and materials, and in some cases support
for working capital, so that artisans can re-establish themselves in other occupations.
20.           Annex 5 contains further details on the turtle protection program, and terms of
reference for the studies to be carried out.
Abatement of Marine Pollution
21.           The marine pollution abatement program will evaluate the reception and disposal
facilities needed to comply with the MARPOL requirements (see also para. 13) and to control
pollution from fishing and commercial vessels, cruise ships, and yachts. The study phase, to be
supported by the present GEF project, will be carried out in two stages. The first stage will
include assessments of the institutional, manpower, and equipment requirements for effective
enforcement of MARPOL stipulations, based on updated estimates of the waste generated by
ships and the likely quantities to be discharged. Preliminary designs and cost estimates for the
facilities will be prepared on this basis. Following government review, the second phase will



6
include further analysis of fleet traffic and disposal methods, final justification of the facilities
proposed, and preparation of detailed engineering designs and bid documents. A subsequent
phase, beyond the current GEF project, will consist of the actual construction of the facilities,
and the training of marine pollution inspectors and ship surveyors for monitoring and
enforcement.
22.           A fuller description of the marine pollution abatement program, together with
terms of reference for the study of waste reception facilities, is found in Annex 6. Cost estimates
for all GEF program elements are included in Schedule A below.
Implementation
23.           The project for which GEF financing is requested is part of a larger Environment
and Transport project, whose estimated total cost is US$ 7 million. The Environment and
Transport project would be financed by a proposed US$ 4.5 million Bank loan and by a
government contribution of US$ 0.7 million equivalent, in addition to the proposed GEF grant
of US$1.8 million equivalent.
24.           The EMPS as a whole is being carried out under the guidance of the Ministry of
Environment, Economic Planning, and External Relations (MEPER). The Environment Steering
Committee, which meets monthly and is chaired by the Minister of MEPER, is the main
coordinating mechanism for implementation of all parts of the EMPS, including the GEF project.
A National Coordinator will be appointed within MEPER to keep up the momentum of
implementation and ensure that the role of MEPER in each project, ranging from minimal
monitoring to direct implementation responsibility, is appropriate for the task to be accomplished.
A description of the requirements for EMPS coordination, and terms of reference for the position
of National Coordinator, are found in Annex 2.
25.           Within this framework, other ministries and agencies in addition to MEPER will
bear direct responsibility for portions of the GEF project. SIF will manage the program for
restoration and preservation of Aldabra. In carrying out this program, SIF will draw upon the
expertise of agencies such as the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) and the Islands Development
Company (IDC). These and other responsibilities will be spelled out in a Memorandum of
Understanding to be concluded between the Government and SIF. A full-time Executive Director
will be appointed by SIF to manage its operations, including the Aldabra program.  The
Environment Division of MEPER will handle the turtle protection program, with assistance from
the Department of Industry and the artisan company CODEVAR for re-training and introduction
of turtle shell artisans into other lines of work. Port of Victoria officials in the Ports and Marine
Services Division (PMSD), Ministry of Tourism and Transport, in collaboration with the Harbour
Master's Office, will manage the study of waste reception facilities at the port. PMSD is already
collaborating with the International Maritime Organization (IMO) in the organization and
implementation of the study. Procurement and disbursement arrangements for GEF programs
are included in Schedule B below.
26.           To ensure prompt availability of funds for the GEF program a Special Account
(revolving fund) will be established in US dollars at a commercial bank. The initial deposit into
the Special Account will be US$ 100,000. All expenditures under US$ 10,000 will be met from
the Special Account. For expenditures above this threshold, the direct payment or Special
Commitment procedure may be used. Replenishment requests will be submitted monthly, and



7
all expenditures will be fully documented except (i) expenditures under contracts of less than US$
20,000; (ii) local training; and (iii) artisan compensation and re-installation.
27.           Monitoring and Evaluation.  Each quarter, MEPER will prepare reports
describing the progress of each program element from the physical, financial, and socio-economic
standpoint. These reports will review the performance of implementing agencies, monitor key
indicators of progress in fulfillment of program goals, and identify any major problems with their
recommended solutions. A mid-term review, focusing on implementation of the EMPS as a
whole, will be conducted prior to the end of 1994 and will be an important occasion for applying
lessons learned up to that time. The main objective of this exchange of views will be to evaluate
the success at mid-course of program elements and reach agreement on any remedial measures
required. Key indicators whose evolution will be closely followed during implementation are
included in Annex 7.
Sustainability
28.           The EMPS represents a commitment to carry out an integrated program of
environmental preservation and sustainable development through the year 2000. A strengthened
MEPER, combining environment with economic planning, will be increasingly able over the
1990s to incorporate the lessons of EMPS experience into development planning. Likewise, SIF
will be able to supervise plans and actions for research, conservation, and possibly limited
ecotourism on Aldabra. It is expected that the GEF program will significantly strengthen SIF
management capabilities. This strengthened management capacity will in turn enhance the ability
of SIF to attract financial support for its programs. Sustained monitoring of cost recovery in the
treatment of ship wastes will ensure successful replication in Seychelles and other similar
economies of the region.
Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
29.           The Bank has carried out a transport project in Seychelles and appraised an
Environment and Transport project, of which the present GEF project is a part. Since early 1990
the Bank has also participated in preparation of a water supply project which is nearing the
appraisal stage. Implementation experience with the completed transport project was generally
satisfactory.  Flexibility in project design, allowing adaptations .if and as required during
implementation, proved to be extremely useful, especially in the road maintenance component
which took account of changes in the condition of the roads and in maintenance requirements
between appraisal and actual implementation.  Largely as a result of the more intensive
involvement over the past three years, Seychelles has become much more familiar with Bank
policies and procedures.
Rationale for GEF Funding
30.           The government ratified the MARPOL Convention, as well as CITES, because
it sees the medium- to long-term benefits of protecting the marine environment as outweighing
the costs of disposal and treatment facilities. It has shown a strong commitment to achieving the
objectives of each part of the GEF project. GEF support of biodiversity protection will allow
the implementation of a program that, for the first time, takes full account of the socioeconomic,



8
institutional, and legal aspects of the protection of endangered species. For CITES to become
a reality, the government needs a comprehensive plan of action for turtle protection, including
the satisfaction of legitimate local consumption demands. Along with activities in the Galapagos
islands, the proposed program represents the GEF pilot phase demonstration of how to meet the
challenges of preservation of endemic biodiversity in isolated island communities.
31.   However, the costs of undertaking the programs are substantial for the Seychelles
economy. The government, with its budget already severely constrained as a result of the drop
in tourism receipts in 1991, finds it difficult to finance them. Although the programs are part
of the EMPS, they did not secure funding at the donors' conference on the EMPS held in
February 1991. Donors at the conference expressed strong support for the programs, which have
high priority on an international level, but were unable to provide financing. Similarly, the
conservation NGOs familiar with these programs, while supporting their aims, find it hard to
commit funds for these activities. Therefore, the project activities would not be carried out in
the absence of GEF financing. GEF funds are proposed for MARPOL activities because in
fulfilling the MARPOL obligations, countries do not necessarily receive national benefits
commensurate with the costs they incur or with the benefits accruing to the world community.
It is consequently GEF financing that will make it worthwhile for Seychelles to design and
construct these facilities.
32.           The Aldabra program, rather than seeking only to arrest degradation, aims at
restoration of the ecosystem. The turtle protection program will provide alternative forms of
livelihood and compensation for the foregone benefits of turtle harvesting to local populations,
enabling Seychelles to comply with CITES. Radio-collaring and other innovative techniques of
feral goat control will be demonstrated. For marine pollution aspects the main innovation is the
identification of cost-effective facilities at quayside for fishing and commercial fleet wastes. GEF
financing of Phase 1 of the marine pollution program would send a concrete signal of the
international donor community's willingness to support the implementation of measures that it
has been advocating for the developing countries. Among nations of the western Indian Ocean,
only Seychelles has signed the MARPOL Convention. Demonstration of how to deal with wastes
partly generated outside of national boundaries will therefore be of value to many other small
island nations with fishing fleets operating in their economic zones.
Agreed Actions
33.           Terms of reference of the studies to be carried out with GEF support have been
prepared, and are included as appendices to Annexes 4, 5, and 6. Consultants with experience
on Aldabra have been identified, and short lists are being prepared for the remaining studies.
Moreover, several actions will be undertaken to ensure timely implementation of the GEF
program. These actions include:
a.     As a condition of grant effectiveniess, establishment at MEPER of the position of
National Coordinator of the EMPS. This position is expected to be filled by an
incumbent MEPER Senior Economist (para. 25);
b.     As conditions of disbursement for the respective actions, signature of Memoranda
of Understanding as follows:  (i) between the government and SIF for
implementation of the Aldabra program for restoration and preservation of
Aldabra ecosystems; (ii) between MEPER and PMSD for management of the



9
waste reception facilities (MARPOL) study; and (iii) between MEPER and
DOI/CODEVAR for management of the turtle trade compensation study and for
re-training and compensation of artisans (para. 26);
c.     As a condition of disbursement for the Aldabra program, appointment by SIF of
a full-time Executive Director (para. 26);
d.     Continuation of adequate budgetary allocations to finance the operational budget
of the Environment Division, MEPER (para. 10);
e.     Approval, by December 31, 1993, of legislation banning domestic trade in
Hawksbill turtle shell products, as a complement to existing practice which
forbids the taking of Hawksbilis (para. 20).
Environmental Aspects
34.           The project is expected to have significantly positive effects on the environment.
Negative impacts are expected to be minimal. Studies and management comprise the bulk of the
project. Civil works at the Aldabra scientific research station will consist of rehabilitation of
existing facilities rather than a major expansion. Environmental effects will be closely monitored
by the Environmental Assessment and Pollution Control section of MEPER.
Benefits
35.           The approach taken in this project to conservation should be replicable in other
small island settings in which ecosystems are threatened. The Aldabra atoll is a World Heritage
Site because of its remarkable and endangered endemic plants and animals. Most extinctions in
historic times have occurred on islands, and the main cause there has been the introduction of
exotic species. Tightly managed feral goat control techniques will provide valuable demonstration
benefits where similar feral animal populations threaten important ecosystems.  Of special
importance will be the lessons learned from efforts to secure a balance between increased visitor
access and conservation requirements.
36.           Turtle populations are threatened around the world, and the attention devoted to
issues of turtle farming, domestic consumption, artisan employment, and international trade will
have impacts in many other similar contexts. The set of actions ultimately adopted will provide
a test of the requirements for effective enforcement of species protection legislation. Finally, for
the marine pollution program, demonstration of how to deal with fishing fleet wastes will be
beneficial to many other small islands which have fishing fleets operating in their marine
economic zones.
Risks
37.           Scarcity of staff is the most important risk for project execution.  With
government units often staffed by only a handful of people, the benefits of staff deployment and
training for a given task can prove to be short-lived if even a few staff changes occur. This risk
will be minimized first by judicious use of local or foreign specialists as appropriate, and second



10
by the fact that the EMPS will be carried out by a wide range of public and private groups in
partnership rather than only by the government. Staff leaving public service often continue to
exercise their profession in the private or semi-public sectors, and can therefore continue to play
a role.
38.           A second, related risk is that, good legislation and an impressive EMPS
notwithstanding, people may be reluctant to alter their habits or practices to the extent necessary
to achieve the desired conservation goals. This risk too will be kept to reasonable levels by
actions aimed directly at influencing domestic and foreign demand for threatened species, such
as audio-visual materials on Hawksbill turtle protection for visiting tourists. Implementation of
the program will be kept flexible in order to place more emphasis if required on the actions
designed to induce changes in behavior.
Attachments



Schedule A
Seychelles: GEF Program
Estimated Costs
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Components
(SR 000)                  (US$000)
A. Restoration and Preservation
of Aldabra Ecosystem
1.  Civil Works                              208      323       531     42        65      106
2.  Equipment, Supplies, & materials                  543       543              109      109
3.  Consulting Services                      114    1,785    1,899      23       357      380
Subtotal                               322    2,651    2,973      64      530      595
B. Protection of Sea Turtles
1.  Equipment, Supplies,                              324       324               65      65
A materials
2.  Consulting Services                      386    1,792    2,178       77      358      436
3.  Artisan Training and                   2,643       168   2,811      529       34      562
re-installation
Subtotal                             3,029    2,284    5,313     606      457   1,063
C.  Abatement of Marine Pollution
1. Consulting Services                        77      688      765      15       138     153
Subtotal                                77      688      765      15      138      153
TOTAL BASE COST                      3,428    5,623    9,051     686    1,125    1,810
Physical Contingencies                       271       135      406      54       27       81
Price Contingencies                          161       238      399      32       48       80
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         3,860    5,996    9,856      772    1,199    1,971
S-ychellest GE? Program
Financing Plan
SoUrce:                                                              Local  Foreign Total
----- (USS million)
GE? Grant                                                               0.6      1.2      1.8
Government                                                              0.2               0.2
TOTAL                                                              0.8       1.2     2. 0



Schedul- B
SZYCHELLES
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION AND
MARINZ POLLUTION ABATZMENT PROJZCT
PROCURZMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$'000)
----- Procurement Method -----
ITEMS                                LCB           IS/DP         OTHER         TOTAL
1.  Civil Works                       120                                         120
(95)                                       (95)
2.  Equipment, Materials,              20           170                           190
and Supplies                    (20)         (170)                         (190)
3.  Consulting Services                                             970           970
(970)        (970)
4.  Artisan Traininq and                                            570           570
Reinstallation                                               (424)         (424)
5.  Salaries, Operation and                                         121           121
Maintenance                                                  (121)         (121)
TOTAL                            140           170           1,661         1,971
(115)        (170)         (1,515)       (1,800)
Notest
LCB      -  Local Competitive Bidding
IS/DP    -  International Shopping and Direct Purchase
Other    -  Includes consulting services to be procured in accordance with Bank
guideline. for hiring of consultants
Figures in parentheses are expenditures for GZZ grant.



Schedule B
(continued)
DISBURSEMENTS
ITEMS                               DISBURSEMENT AMOUNT        % FINANCING
(USS million)
1.  Civil Works                               0.1              100% of foreign and 75%
of local expenditures
2.  Equipment, Materials,                     0.2              100%
and Supplies
3. Consulting Services                        0.9              100%
4. Artisan Training and                       0 .4             100% of foreign and 50%
Reinatallation                                           of local expenditures
5.  Salaries, Operation and                   0.1              100%
Maintenance
6. Unallocated                                0.1
TOTAL                                   1.8
ESTIMATED GEF DISBURSEMENTS BY YEAR
----- IBRD FISCAL YEAR ---------
1993         1994         1995          1996
Annual                               0.3          0.7           0.6          0.2
Cumulative                           0.3          1.0           1.6          1.8
Closing Dates December 31, 1996



Schedule C
SEYCHELLES
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION AND
MARINE POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
Time Taken to Prepare:                     10 months (September 1991 to June 1992)
Prepared by:                              Government of Seychelles: Ministry of
Environment, Economic Planning, and
External Relations in collaboration with
public and private agencies
World Bank: Orville Grimes, Aubert Zohore,
Jan Post, Carl Gustaf Lundin, Franklin Cardy
First Bank Mission:                       July 1991
Appraisal Mission Departure:              June 1992
Date of Negotiations:                     November 12-14, 1992
Planned Date of Effectiveness:            January 1993
Summary Supervision Plan:                 Missions are planned for 4-6 month intervals
to supervise progress.
Technical expertise required: Ecologists, sea
turtle specialists, economist/financial analysts,
port engineers, institutional specialists.
Reporting arrangements: (i) EMPS monitoring
through MEPER information base and
implementation reports; (ii) GEF monitoring
reports prepared by Bank missions;
(iii) summary reports of study conclusions with
ltuLre action plans.
List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs:           Project Completion Report, Transport Project
(lii. 2492-SEY), June 23, 1992.



ANNEXES
Annex 1:            Environmental Management Plan of Seychelles (EMPS): Progress on
Implementation
Annex 2:            Environmental Management Plan of Seychelles (EMPS): Establishment
of a National Coordinator
Annex 3:            Ministry of Environment, Economic Planning, and External Relations
Environment Division
Organization Chart
Annex 4:            Restoration and Preservation of the Aldabra Ecosystem
Annex 5:            Turtle Protection Program
Annex 6:            Reception and Disposal of Marine Wastes at the Port of Victoria
Annexes 1 and 2 describe in detail the institutional context of implementation of
Seychelles environmental programs, and Annex 3 sets out the organizational framework for
implementation. Annexes 4, 5, and 6 are each composed of two parts. The first part describes
in detail the actions to be carried out under each program, and the roles and responsibilities of
each participating group or agency. The second part consists of Terms of Reference for studies
and management plans. For the fullest understanding of all parties involved in the actions to be
undertaken, the Terms of Reference repeat the portions of the Annexes which describe the setting
and rationale of program elements.






Annex 1
Page 1 of 8
SEYCHELLES: GEF PROGRAM
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN OF SEYCHELLES (EMPS):
PROGRESS ON IMPLEMENTATION
A. BACKGROUND
The Government of Seychelles has committed itself for several decades to achieving
a balance between development and environmental preservation. There is a strong awareness that
the foundations of the nation's economy, fishing and tourism, depend to a large extent on the
achievement of a sustainable development program.
When the Government was preparing the National Development Plan for 1990-94 it
decided to prepare a complementary but distinct Environmental Management Plan for the Seychelles
(EMPS) to cover the period to 2000. The completed EMPS was reviewed in depth at a Technical
Seminar, revised and then presented at a Donors' Meeting sponsored by the Bank, UNDP and UNEP
held at the Bank's Paris Office in February 1991. Pledges totalling US$40 million were secured from
bilateral donors, NGOs and multilateral agencies.
Environmental management in the Seychelles was the responsibility until 1992 of the
Department of the Environment in the Office of the President. In May 1992, DOE was merged with
the Ministry of Planning and External Relations to become the Ministry of Environment, Economic
Planning and External Relations (MEPER). This gives the environment a central position in national
economic planning.
The unique ecosystems and endemic species of Seychelles attract significant world
interest and are an important global resource. There are, for instance, said to be 150,000 giant
tortoises on Aldabra compared with only 10,000 on the more widely known Galapagos Islands.
Seven National Parks have been established along with three special reserves, including two World
Heritage Sites and these include 43% of the total land area of the country and 23,000 hectares of
surrounding reefs and lagoons. National Parks are areas set aside for the propagation, protection and
preservation of wildlife or objects of unusual interest and they include 5 marine national parks. Two
of these areas, Aldabra Atoll and Vallee de Mai on Praslin are protected under international law as
unique natural sites of world importance. Three islands - Aride, Cousin and Aldabra are special
nature reserves where flora and fauna are protected under Seychelles law.
The Environmental Management Plan (EMPS)
The EMPS consists of two volumes: a main report containing the Plan and a second
volume containing the Investment Program with project profiles. The Plan volume is divided into
four parts. Part 1 comprises a general introduction which reviews past policies and performance,
summarizes the Government's development strategy (detailed in the National Development Plan, NDP
1990-94) and presents the five main goals for sustainable development:



Annex 1
Page 2 of 8
*     To protect the health and quality of life for all Seychellois
*     To ensure that future economic development proceeds on an equitable and
sustainable basis
*     To preserve natural heritage and biological diversity
*     To improve decision making, laws and the institutional framework for
sustainable development
*     To increase public information and understanding of the essential linkages
between environment and development
Part II of the Plan presents the environmental issues and priorities for action under
7 main headings: human health and environment; natural resources; natural heritage and biological
diversity; decision making, laws and institutions; information, education and training; and
international cooperation and management plans for key policy areas.
Part III of Volume 1 contains the details of the management plans (programs) and the
projects they include, as follows:
*      Environmental guidelines and assessment (5 projects)
*      Pollution Monitoring and control (7 projects)
*      Land Management (3 projects)
*     Water management (6 projects)
*      Energy policies and conservation (2 projects)
*      National Parks and wildlife conservation (9 projects)
*      Forest Management (3 projects)
*      :Coastal environment management (4 projects)
*      Marine resources management (4 projects)
*     Environmental law and enforcement (1 project)
*     Environmental information, education and training (4  projects)
A complete listing of all projects in the EMPS with a ranking by priority assigned
by the Government was incorporated into the Plan, and is reproduced as Appendix 1 of this Annex.
Part IV of the Plan covers the implementation of the Plan and deals specifically with
the institutional, manpower and financial implications.
Volume 2 is a document of some 160 pages containing briefs for the 52 prcjects for
which funding was sought. Of the 59 projects included in the EMPS, financing had already been
obtained for 7 projects and these were therefore excluded from the EMPS investment program in
Volume 2. All projects in the EMPS are included in the NDP 1990-94 except for project A5 on
climate warming and sea level rise.
The general opinion of the outside experts who attended the Technical Seminar was
that the EMPS represents a solid achievement. Reviewers found that the EMPS had done a good job



Annex I
Page 3 of 8
of identifying inconsistencies, overlaps and gaps in the government's planning and management of
the environment. The EMPS was found to have a high degree of internal consistency, and it was felt
that the planned investment program was realistic and could be financed without a significant increase
in the Government's debt burden.
The principal concerns that arose had to do with the Government's ability to
implement the Plan in particular with regard to staffing, operations, evaluation, enforcement and
public involvement. At the donors' Conference some raised concerns about the recurrent costs of
financing projects and the institutional capacity of the implementing agencies. The Government
confirmed that it had estimated the recurrent costs of projects in the EMPS wherever possible. These
would normally be borne by the Government as their contribution to the project costs. They also
confirmed their commitment to cost recovery as evidenced by their request for an IBRD project
incorporating improved cost recovery mechanisms in the water and sanitation sectors.
During the Donors' Meeting, the donors generally did not pledge specific amounts
for the financing of the EMPS but rather indicated interest in specific projects or sub-sectoral
programs in the EMPS. Based on these indications, a total of US$40 million, about 75% of the total
investment program, was pledged, although only $6 million was actually committed. Thirty-two
projects received support and about one third of the pledged amount represented grant or concessional
financing. Following the meeting, the Government undertook a series of follow-up contacts with key
donors to confirm the pledges and discuss financing terms.
B. PRESENT STATUS
Progress To Date
In the eighteen months since the Donors' Meeting some progress has been made but
there is much more to be done. Meetings have been held with donors to attract additional funding,
some firm commitments have been obtained for specific projects, staff have been added to the
Department of the Environment (DOE), the Department itself has been incorporated into the new
Ministry of Environment, Economic Planning and External Relations, and changes in the political
culture of the country as it moves towards political pluralism open the way to a larger role for the
public in environmental decision making.
Appendix 2, prepared by MEPER, shows the status of each project, the availability
of financing, the sources of financing, and the state of implementation. As can be seen from this
appendix, there are now commitments covering all or part of 20 projects out of the 51 proposed to
the donors, and 11 projects are currently underway. Pledges have been made for another 19 projects,
although no firm agreements have yet been signed. Most of the remaining projects are being
considered for financing although no prior commitment has been made. Two projects have so far
elicited little interest (A4, annual sustainable development audits and B3, centralized vehicle testing
facilities). Total commitments now amount to some SR 136.62 million (US$ 27.3 million). Of this
amount, about SR 24 million (US$ 4.8 million) has actually been secured.
Appendix 3 is an updated version of the Implementation Schedule for the EMPS
investment program prepared by MEPER in July 1992. It reflects the status described above.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 8
Since the EMPS is being implemented through a number of differently financed
projects, the coordination and monitoring of these activities is an important issue. A mechanism has
been established for coordinating the implementation of the EMPS through the Environment Steering
Committee, which meets monthly under the chairmanship of the Minister of MEPER. The
monitoring has already been launched by MEPER but it will become a more onerous task in time and
its continuance needs to be assured despite staff changes. Planning for the implementation of the
EMPS needs to go further by identifying the key constraints such as staffing that will have to be met
in a timely fashion to maintain progress.
MEPER has established a computerized data bank to keep track of the implementation
of the EMPS projects and those of the National Development Plan (NDP). This is updated regularly
after the monthly meeting of the Environment Steering Committee. A full printout of the progress
on all the projects in the EMPS Investment Program is prepared quarterly.
Present Implementation Capacity
Although the government has been very active in searching for funds, there has been
understandable concern among the donors about the actual implementation capacity that can be
mobilized to carry out the EMPS. In a country of some 70,000 people it is possible to have an
unusually clear picture of who is actually available to do what specific job. The Government has
completed a Manpower Study (National Manpower Plan of the Seychelles, 1990 - 1994). It has also
recently completed a Human Resources Development Plan for 1992-96, which should provide the
context within which a human resources plan for implementation of the EMPS can be developed.
Some advances have been made in staffing the higher-level positions in the
Department of the Environment. Most environment specialists now function as a Division in
MEPER, as shown in Annex 3. There is now a Director in place for each of the units and additional
staff will be sought for 1993 (2 for the Conservation Section, 6 for the Environmental Assessment
and Pollution Control (EA & PC) Section; and 16, including 12 field workers, for the Forestry
Section). A request for 2 additional Inspectors is also being submitted for the EA&PC Section.
In the entire Environment Division there are only about a dozen graduate positions,
and several of these have heavy administrative loads to carry as Directors or Assistant Directors. Of
the senior professionals actually in place, three are Seychellois and the rest are expatriates. There
are few likely candidates available locally for professional positions in the Environment Division, if
any, although with the recent liberalization policies there is a possibility that some might return to
the country. Some polytechnic graduates are available but their level of education is barely that of
the English "A Level" high school graduation. In general, for the foreseeable future, additional
professional staff can be found at the senior levels only through further use of imported expatriates.
This lack of Seychellois is even more critical at a time when those that are in government may be
tempted to enter the private sector.
The consolidation of the Environment Department as a Division into the new MEPER
is a significant and important step which offers great potential for innovative approaches to the
integration of environment in national economic planning. It has also, unfortunately, meant a down-
grading of the formal responsibility levels of staff, which during the transition has been damaging
to their morale. Already the NDP contains all but one of the EMPS project proposals and these are



Annex 1
Page 5 of 8
receiving much of the attention among the 500 or so that are included in the NDP. This opportunity
to develop new synergies for effective and sustainable development of the Seychelles environment
within MEPER is rare and challenging.
Projects Proposed for GEF and Bank Support
Among the EMPS projects are four that are being proposed for support by the Global
Environment Facility under the title of Biodiversity Conservation and Abatement of Marine Pollution.
These projects are:
G6    Rehabilitation of Aldabra World Heritage Site
G7    Eradication of Feral Goats from Aldabra Atoll
J1     Protection of Endangered Sea-turtles.
B6    Implementation of International Convention for the Prevention of
Pollution from Ships
Actions to be undertaken under these projects are described more fully in Annexes
4, 5 and 6 below.
EMPS projects that are included in the Environment and Transport Project are:
-     E5    Praslin Water Supply - Phase II
X     E6    Assessment of Water Resources and Preparation  of Water
Management Plans
-     J3     Preparation of Marine Resources Management Plans
The proposed works for Praslin Water Supply lie within the Praslin (Vallee de Mai)
National Park. Although no significant environmental impact is expected, it is impossible to do works
without some impact and so the value of the word "significant" acquires much importance. Because
of this, a formal environmental assessment will be done to confirm that the minimal works proposed,
mostly on the site of existing facilities, will not significantly affect the Park. The assessment should
also confirm that there are no lower cost alternatives to the proposed pumping scheme.
C. OUTSTANDING ISSUES
The main issues raised in the donors' reviews of the EMPS were related to the
implementation capacity of the Government in view of its limited staff. Staffing, organization,
legislation, enforcement and public support for environmental issues were highlighted as possible
limitations on successful implementation of the EMPS. Some progress has been made on addressing
these but much remains to be done.



Annex 1
Page 6 of 8
Operational Capacity
Although MEPER is relatively well equipped and organized, the capacity to supervise
and administer such a comprehensive program as the EMPS is severely limited by the scarcity of
trained Seychellois. There is already a very heavy dependence on expatriate experts, not only as
advisers but also in senior line management positions such as Director of Planning and Director of
the Environmental Assessment and Inspection bureau. There appears to be no other means of
increasing or even maintaining the high level technical staff at this point. There is very little
possibility that visiting technical experts can be allocated a counterpart for full-time training or
assistance. The availability of suitable local candidates for higher technical positions in the Division
will not increase significantly in the foreseeable future, and the contracts of several key expatriates
expire within the next year. This provides a severe constraint on the sustainability of operations
throughout the technical services in the Government.
This leads to a significant consideration which is the appropriate role of the
Environment Division. Since it is impossible for the Division as it exists to do all that needs to be
done under the EMPS as well as to establish its role firmly in the government, because of a lack of
people, there may have to be some creative thinking about what tasks the Division and Ministry must
undertake and those it could delegate to other organizations or to the private sector. Several examples
in Seychelles of partnerships for environmental conservation can be drawn upon. Bird Island, for
instance, has been managed privately since 1968 with considerable success in the controlled
development of tourism and as a bird sanctuary. The Government has leased Aldabra atoll to the
Seychelles Island Foundation (SIF), which is responsible for its supervision, operation and protection.
SIF is supported by several institutions from Europe and the US, but has been having difficulty
maintaining the research station in good condition.
The Organizational Study of the Environment Division, which began in October 1992,
aims to determine the most effective means of maintaining coordination and monitoring the progress
of the EMPS as a whole. One of the most important elements of this study will be the preparation
of a ten-year human resource development plan. The capacity of Environment Division staff is
stretched with day-to-day demands, which leaves little time for EMPS implementation. The staffing
plan will support not only the EMPS but also the ongoing (and rapidly increasing) additional
responsibilities of the Environment Division. It should also cover the staff functions in the Ministry
that are required for the overall monitoring of EMPS activities being carried on outside the Ministry,
such as the functions of the National Coordinator recommended below and in Annex 2.
The Organizational Study would also identify those tasks which do not need to be
carried out by the Ministry but which could be done by other agencies or by the private sector. It
is important, however, that the needs of these other agencies involved in the implementation of the
EMPS also be identified. It is unreasonable to expect substantial support from others unless they are
allocated the necessary resources to do the additional tasks. The staffing plan would build on and
would be an extension of the present Government-wide plan being prepared under the aegis of the
Ministry of Administration and Manpower and released in November 1992. The staffing plan would
be reviewed every year in the Ministry and revised as necessary.



Annex 1
Page 7 of 8
Legislation
In Seychelles, there is a wealth of legislation affecting the environment, much of it
concerning area and species protection. Some 42% of the total land area has been designated as
national parks, reserves, or special areas, and a further 228 km2 of marine areas have been designated
as marine national parks. Although the protection framework is largely in place, more detailed
legislation is often lacking on the specific activities permitted and proscribed in the protected areas,
on enforcement measures, and on sanctions that can be imposed. A comprehensive draft of a
Conservation and National Parks Act was prepared by a consultant based on an external model, but
this is being further improved in order to better reflect Seychelles conditions. At present, another
consultant is drafting legislation to apply the regulation making environmental assessments mandatory
for investment projects.  The legislation will be reviewed by the Environment Division and
subsequently by the Attorney General's office prior to enactment.
There is scope for some innovative approaches to environmental legislation. MEPER
is now the main executive for conservation policy and responsible for the creation and management
of all protected areas apart from Aldabra, Aride and Cousin islands. Aride and Cousin are owned
and managed as Special Nature Reserves by the Royal Society for Nature Conservation (RSNC) and
the International Council for Bird Preservation (ICBP) respectively. Bird Island has been owned and
successfully managed privately as a bird sanctuary since 1969. The population of sooty-terns has
significantly increased on Bird Island in the intervening years. Successful alternatives to control by
Government regulation and staff have therefore been established.
Public Participation
The awareness of the importance of sustainable development to the Seychelles
environment has been increasing rapidly at all levels. There is now a "green" public awareness group
in the Seychelles called the Seychelles Environment Lobby. Until the recent liberalization, however,
there was little opportunity for general public participation in decision-making at the project approval
level. A process of active campaigning for political parties is now under way and this should lead
to a wider involvement of citizens in development decisions.
The success of the EMPS in the long run will in fact depend on the degree of public support
there is for it and its activities. Every opportunity should be taken td encourage the involvement of
the public, in part because environmental measures that are designed in accordance with the wishes
of the affected public will be supported by them and as a result the need for government enforcement
will be lessened. Peer pressure is much more effective than Government inspection and control.
The importance of environmental education in this context cannot be overemphasized.
A top priority of any developing environment agency should be the environmental education of the
children. Once they are sensitized they will help ensure the long-term sustainability of environmental
programs in both the public and private sectors.



Annex 1
Page 8 of 8
D. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The EMPS is beginning to get underway. Thirteen projects are fully funded, another
4 projects have start-up funding, and 11 projects have actually started. The total number of proposals
in the EMPS Investment Program was 51. Seven other projects in the Plan were already financed
and not included in the Investment Program. There is much more to be done, however, and the
Government has been working hard to have the donors' pledges turn into committed funds. The
workload from environmental matters is increasing exponentially from a rather high platform created
by the recent flurry of international activities and by the need to implement the EMPS and to prepare
and enforce new improved legislation.
Organizational Study of Division of Environment
This study, originated by the former DOE, is a top priority of the government,
especially now that questions of interaction between environment specialists and economic planners
can be handled within a single ministry (MEPER). A consulting firm to undertake the study has been
selected, and the study began in October 1992. A 5-10 year staffing plan for the Division and a
training and recruitment program are among the outputs expected from this study. Early adoption
of its recommendations would be critically important to the successful implementation of the EMPS.
Innovative Approaches to Management of the Environment
It is recommended that an innovative approach be taken to the management of the
environment through the Organizational Study and through other actions of the government. In a
country with such limited human resources it is appropriate to maximize the utilization of available
personnel, be they in the government, in parastatals or in the private sector. At the same time as
recognizing the need for government to have a considerably expanded staff to deal with the increased
volume of environmental work, it is also important to focus on the most appropriate and crucial role
for the government to play, while identifying alternative means for implementation of the less
significant or more easily delegated activities that might be carried out by others under the
supervision of the government.
Establishment of a National Coordinator for Implementation of the EMPS
The scope and complexity of the EMPS is such that it has recently been taking a substantial
portion of the time of a MEPER Senior Economist and an Assistant. The work load continues to
grow as the EMPS gets underway, and it is therefore recommended that this need be established on
an official footing by the appointment of a National Coordinator for the EMPS. The position would
be filled for a year by an expatriate economist who would train a Seychellois assistant to take over
after that year has elapsed. It is hoped that the present Senior Economist can stay to fill this role and
that he will be able to complete the training of the staff that he now has assisting him. Funding
required is estimated to be about US$90,000 for the expatriate including overheads and about SR
4,400 a month for the Assistant with an eventual salary of about SR 5,300 a month for the
Seychellois National Coordinator. Terms of reference and justification for the National Coordinator
are given in Annex 2 below.



Annex 1. AnRendix I
Page  of(3
PRToaTr   RAZ=G FOR MIPS PROJECTS
(As shown L-- Figura III-. of tha FtLS Val I )
Code 0  designates projects which are already under
implementation or about to start.
Code 1  designates projects whi.ch bear a fi=st priority,
either because they aim at addressing an urgent
envir--nental problem, such as Victoria sewage
treat=ent works (project Cl), or because their
co0=leticr. i, a C_rerequisite for th.e im=lementation
of other ;r=jects and prcgrammes, as is the case for
the coasta. environment baseline study (projec. I1).
Code 2  designates projects which, although bearing an
intrinsic priority, cannot be initiated befcre other
priority . projects have been completed cr are well
uncer way, such as the coastal zone management plans
(project 14).
Code 3  designates projects which, even though they address
an i=por-ant issued, do not bear a character of real
u-rgency because their implementation can be phased or
delayed without putting in jeopardy the rest of the
Plan, as is the case witha sewerage network extensions
(project C2).
A double code (for example: 1/3) "ndicates the respective
priorities of Phase 1 and 2 of the project.
A5 the activities are of such a different character, r.o
priorities were assigned in the Environmental Information,
Educaticn and Training Program=es.  These projects are
nevertheless essential for success in implementing the EvPS-
90
NOTE:     Only cne cf the "I" projects (CS) was included in the
EMPS Investment Program and t.his Study of Volbert Sewerage has
been completed.



Annes 1. Aooendix 1
Page 2 of 3
E:vizoo.en:al Fa^nagament Plan. f z S*ychellas
Figu.e I::-i : Priority Ranking for EIPS Projects.
prjo:4t7 Raak-i=
A. Eivir==e=tZ1 Guidelines and ASsesS-ment PrCO=g--e
2    A.1 State cf Envir==ent P.ecor.s
I    A.2 Ptepa_re and Apply Environmental Guidelines
I    A.3 Envir=nmenZal Assessment P=ocedures
3    A.4 C=nduLt'Annual Su.stainable Development Audits
3    A.5 Imoac= Assessmen= of Climate Warming and Sea Lavel P.ise
B. Pollutiom monitori=q and Control P:oq=a.-e
1    3.1 Set Standa--s f_r Air And Water Quality, and Noisa
Poll_tion
I    B.2 Po lu_ion moni--s.g, Cont=ol and Adviscry, Sarvica
2    3.3 I=mr=vemeno of Vehicle Tests and Testing Facilities
1    B.4 Control of Toxic or Potentially Hazardous CLemicals
1    3.5 Contingency Plan for MarLne Pollution from Shi=s
1    B.6 Implementation of International Conventicn for tse
Prevention cf Pollution from Ships
I    B.7 Control Progra=me for off-share Oil  Drilling
C. Waste Kamagement Proqrame
1    C.1 Greater Victoria Sewerage Project - Phase II
2    C.2 Greater Vic_-ria Sewerage Project - Phase II=
1/3  C.3 Beau Vallon Bay Sewerage Project
1    C.4 Roche Caiman Sewerage Project
2I'3  C.5 Ansa aux Pins. - Ansa Rcvale sawerage Study
1    C.7 Treaz=ent of Waste oil
a    C.6 Anse Valbert Sewerage Pro,ect
1    C.8 Soli T Waste Tr-at=ent Plan: and Plan for MahA
3    C.9 DCs=osa of sludge from Victoria Power Station
2    C.10 Study of Z=prcved Sewage Disposal fcr Dispersed Eomes and
Small Villages
3    C.11 Feasib  rty Study for Regional Management of
Hazaz-cus Wastes
D. Land Management Pogrq:r   e
o    D.1 "Plan dI'Amnagement du Territzire"l
1    D.2 Strencghening of Plannig-. Act and Suilldng P>equlatLons
3    D.3 Soil TFert:li:y Conservation and Ipr=vement
E. Water manage=ent Pror=n-!e
I    E.1 Mahe :nte-=ated Water suc=lv Develop=ent Plan
I    E.2 Mahd Water  jst_ibutcr.
1    E.3 Reha-4litat4:n and U=g=ad_4i-  of La Nicl T=eatment Works
O    E.4 La C-gue Water Supply
I    E.5 Praslin Water supply - Phase
3    E.6 Assess Wate- R.esources and Prepare Water Management Plans



Annex 1. Apeaciix 1
Page 3 of 3
Ervixr=n=ental Management Plan for seychelles
Priorit7 Ranking
F. Ene-t7 P0licy a.d Cons.avation Progr`m-e
1    F.1 Energy Conservation Programme
3    F.2 Feasibility Study on Introducticn of Lead Free Gas
G. National Parks and Wildlife Cozsiumtion Programme
3/1  G.1 Wildlif e Inventories and Protecio4n cf Endangered Species
3    G.2 Cont-ol the I=port and Export of Plants and Animals
1    G.3 Cont_zl of Pesticides
1    G.4 Rehabilitation of C _ieuse National Park
1    G.5 Imp==vemenm of National Marine Parks
1    G.6 Reh2i'            of Aldabra World Heritage Sits
1    G.7 EZadizati=n of Feral_ Goats fzom Aldabra Atoll
3    G.8 Upg=ading tte National Botanical Garden
1    G.9 National Parks and Wildlife Service
2    G.10 Conservation Strategy and National Parks Management Plans
E. Forests Management Programme
1    H.1 Preservation of Endemic Tree Species
1    H.2 Forest Fire Contingency Plan
I    H.3 Preparation and I=plementation of National Forest
Management Plan
I. Coastal Envirzonent Management Prograe
1    1.1 Coastal and Marine E.-vironment Baseline Study
1    1.2 Beach. E-3sicn Control
1    1.3 Alternatives tz Reduce Sand Use in Constructi=n
2    1.4 Review of Coastal Zone Management Plans
J. Mari-e Resources Management PrOgrzame
1    J.1 Protection of Endangered Sea Turles
0    T.2 Strengt!tenirng of Fisheries Surzeys and Assessments
3    J.3 Mari-.e Resources Management Plans
K. Envion,mental Law and E=ifor=e-ent PrograTMe
1    K.1 Revision of Environmental Legislation
L. Enviro=mental I:fo=atio=, Education and Train.ng
P=ror--aes
L.7 Environmental Documentation Centre and Infor-atiOn System
L.2 Increase Public Iaffor ztion and Participation on
Envi=rnment
L.3 Exoand Environmental Educa=ton
L.4 Expand Environmental Training



Annex  - A.roendix 2
Page 1 of 2
Imniementation and Financinz Status
for EMPS Proiecs
s?.o;c'. .;.:                       TOTL -Is-. 3L.T         F7OiS    J010no0al  FM=D!                      :    PIOJICt
21OI.COSI  CMST    3220W    SEC2ED  ID!JtIrF            IDETIFIU  IECUUO  5r"Tm
A.7-o.121ZLE A1SSSES. l?OG.  5I 000o'
Al.STLTS OF !3VIMOXNET LDOlTS             1230                 15  nacr
A:.PUPIE?'FP?   EN.GooIlDELIN              7o                  too  Fulc                                     Liz
Ai.3v.113Ei;YE1T  izaC=a's                1St0                lS10  FWcz                                     100
L4.iA1N AL                                 IS1.OEY.LODIT1  150   0                     0       iOlt            O
Ai.CN!AC7 ASiSiM.CLIXAZZ ?AU.              1S0                                       645       G;';            0
TOTAL.'A. ?1C5'LAY,.                      .015                7,20!!                  4S
S .POLL TOX 1oX[T/COTrZ.!10G
3'.5-.UCi '.S A1uJi&T1/XOISZ               t'0                 li0   WOP0                                    100
3l.?0L;L'.;0Y  4001T01110/COTIlOL          :30                   I                   It0       LOB             0
3i.7c--i;---.-;:i   !ACIlITU              :100                   0                     0i      YOXE            
P-.CO.N;OL TOrIC SISTaJCaS                 410
d!.COXT.A?UN  iaI.POL(1AT.iCL1531                              160   [Coo           l100        35             3
iI. IT.COX.wALPOL(?PS!1                    440                 440,   5Ei                                    100
17.COr.10L OIL OtILL1IG                   1610                   0                                             0
..  _ _......._____............... __......... _._____ ......................____ ______._
TrA5L S.   0IG 91102                      5075                 l10                  1500
C.7Tii.  VA'iGEMENT ?1OGLLX1
Cl.G73i ?-AS-  :1                       i3000       7100      7100.   LU          11S000       LOA           100
C;.575? ?'1SE  Elii                      19JS0                   0                                             0
CI.l   tC 7AU0  S7TEZIGO                 45100      2100      2l00   Cc"S          41100       C=
CN.ZOCH! CI.D&I Sc7I0GE                   9000                   0                             10o            
C5.!I1S/ICYAL,. 027.ST'01'                700                    0                  3100       101             0
CS.IOL .!!   " ScE72G- i.l'             17200       2 Igo   :5Si   CCC_
Ct.SOLI0 Jii.EiTASTT.ITET               27000        500       i00   CCC_         lt000    CCCULIDS         .00
C'.0li?0SE OF SLL'3GE                                 60        so   Spill
CIO.1052GE 3157?0iL 011?.IOKES v           iEs                   0                             so05
C,II.xAMaC.DE2T To::C lA5E                1900                   0                             1O1
MOTAL C. 71CG1AjYSi                    I0OOO0      10611     10611               111UOO
E.IATIZ XAX.OGU!NT 0100GU0!
V-.LE VIOL TIS.LTE2T 70t15                6000                   0                 6000   CCJIJIL
E1.3! 1&SLE  TA!,-  SP?LIy                 II0                    0                  Ip0    U1/GUm
E;.1k!T!  NAqAGZ3(!NT fl.i               4210                    0                 422    1IU1O
rOTiL E. S2mGZ.me                        li00                                     1i100
F.2EYNT CO -Ilir3olI plOGlaYE
F!.3C1GJ C03ElVATi.OI                     1lJ0                   0                  lJ50   QI(ON  JlAIA
F2.StUY t'2.0  F.'! 00                                50        60   SPAill
TOT-AL F.?!O2LkxmE                        liS0        60         60                lSS0
G.IA.T.PAUXS cOISElui.[0g 00.
G1.?ILDLItF  1XVEX Ctl!3                  t640                                      1100    IC2P?IC
VZ.IK?OZT ?LUTS/IANNALS                   L040                    0                 1040       ioI
0;.CONTI0L OF ?ESTlCrazS                   42!                  411    liO                                   100



Annex  - Antendix 2
Page 2 of 2
G.Z133.O1.Sll!OSs MAT.PIAU               1t33                                     I33    FIaCE
GI.1Ne!OVE  WINE PAILS                    400                  400    EC                                    100
GE . EiHa.ALDALU                         1760                                      1i7O      GE,
V7.EIA.MELL GOATS iL3.1.U                1401                                      1401      GE!
Gt.iOGIADE SarLBECAL Gl,210               110                  l00 L ccr                                     29
Gi.3ATIAOUL PiUS TILOLEFE SEXY            Mi1                3035    EC                                    100
G1O.CONSESTATION STZIrGT                  350                 350    eC                                    100
- - - -  _-- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -  - _- - - - - --_---_-_-_
TOMIL G.?1OGZJLMME                      11131                4360                 7131
I.FOISTS Ms&GEIsrr EoTo wsUE
.- -- - --- -- - -- - - -- -- -----
teIESEI'TATION EVOEVEC .i"S               660                    0                   0       NONE
.FOZESr FEIRE PLa                         410                   0                    0
S3.NAT;ONA5 FoaES? PL.A!                  Jt0       320 eLot/Fill                                          100
TOTAL a. P'Oh3LANE                       1460       320          0                   0
t.COiSiL VANAGUBEYT PSOGLikYE
11.CoATAL 3asEL[IE SLUDT                 4200                                                 I EC
1i.3EICI EZOS1O1  CONTZOL                4000                   0                             EC
[:.ALT71ATr7ES To SAio USE                350                   0                             eC
(4.COASTaL  oslE MAXAGEHEYT               120                   0                             EC
rOTAL [.?!CcliME                         3t50                    0
I.JAIIIE lEiOUiC-S ?.RGI3NE
1I.POtICTEO[N  OF SE TUitLES            1300                5t00    GEF                                   100
13.lAtIE IESOUiC!i NAAAEMr               1320                                     10t0       11S10
---------------------.--                            -.-                    ------ -- - ---------------
TOt'iL 1.?2RC6Z1MNE                      7620                slo3                120
K.ES371ON0ENTAL rAi PIOGLINIE
KI.ENVEZCs OSN?EA   LZCSLATION           1340                 160.  OXo2          1340   lucIVFA,O
----- ------------------------..----- -  --- - -----
TO1taL ,  .?ROOLMUE                      1340                  160                1140
L.LCUCA'ON;ZAE9N I PZCUWNE
LI.DOC.CHT;iEItFO.srrs7x                 160                  10O   ICC?                 CFTCIACCT         18
L2.2G7LiC  NFOINYATICO                   l500                    0                        cTeL/ccr
Li .E'IEDCIT[ON                          60o0                    0                        C=  C/CC'
L4ES? T.2i3EN1MG                         4O00                    0                        CFTCJiCCT
13360
-- -                                                                                         __  -  _-   -_  - _____    ____  ______  -  ---
51       iCtAL L.PIOGZ.c'                        lt720                   I00
Grac-d Tzta                              319 ,255           23 ,994             1336 ,620
NOTES:                                                         (13Z)               (42%)
?MIE.' C:;CI;C5 STEM   COSTS MLLT SECOI.eD
o!!-; -      ,U:S iC73    SCZE.GLZD  O  IX IEVE3WT1T0X SEPTSE1 1'92



VHPS - Jnvestleat Programme   Implementatlon Schedule
Progrules and Project Titles                     1991         1992      N1993         19994         5       1995       1997                19           2000
h. Jnvironianijl Guldellen and Joseasiaant
Programme
1.1 Slate of lnvironment Reports                                           -            - I_I     I            1_I                            I_I
A.2 PrePare and Apply Jnvironaeltal Guidelines                                       -           -         1-1
J.3 Rnviroaaesll lJsJstmantl Procedures                                I I                     1       I-I            J-I    I_I             -          -        I-I
1.4 Conduct Annuli Sutillnable Development Audits                                    -         1-1
1.5 Impact Aesesument of Climate armintg and
Sea Level list                                                                I-I    I_I   I_I    I-I    - l   l                                   -         1-I
B.  Poluiloa 90oatIDrlng *nd Coatrol Pr OgrAU
8.1 Set Standards for Air and Water Quality and
mios PollutIon                                                      -           -          J-l                     -       1-
B.2 Pollution ltonItorlat, Control and ldvlseory
Service                                                                       I_I                     I_I           j I              -I
8.3 lmprovemeOt of Velicit Teasts Ad eastinl
8.4 Control of Toxic or PotentIlly hiardous
Chemiclal                                                                                                   f-I
S.5 CoAtinIencY PlaS  for Narint Pollutiol  from
S.6 Implementation of IDt. ConventloY
Preventlon of Shlp Pollullom                                                  I                                                                                                 _
8.7 Control Programme for off- sore Drillineg                            -           -           -          - I-I     I               I    1-I    I-I            i-_
o -
.   .                                                                     . .                            .          48 W:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Prograucts and Project fille                    1991        J 1992         3       199    |  1995       1996       1997   |1998          1999       2000
C.  #:aste Kinagesent Progracge
C.  Grester Victorla Sewerare ProJect - PhaeO 11                  1         1       1-
C.2 Greater Victoria Severas. Project - Phase 111
C.3 Beau Valin Day Seweralg  Project
C./ loche Callan Sewerage Project
C.5 Jloe Iui P?IS - Alos  loyal. Severale Study                                                                                       I
C.6  nnat Volbert Seserage Project
C.8 Solid datle treatmeut Plant and Plan for
C.9 DispoeC of Sludge from Victoria Power
Stallot                                                1-o
C.10 Study on Improved Sewage Disposal for Plp.
Holes  and VIJifaf e                                                           _
C.11 nfasiblIlly Study for Regional MdaagCeent
of Hazardous usages
J.  valer fanageaeut Progr ame
1.3 Rebab     A1AtIon and Upgradlig of le EloI
Treatment workt
1.5 Frasil  later Supply - Phaie  11
J.6 JAsesA Water Rteourcem and hrepare Yater
hanaguent Plant
P.  Energy Policy 4Ad CoaservtIAo PrOgramme
J.l Inerly ConnervatIon Programme                                             I    I         I             I     I_o
J.2 FesIlbIlIty Study oD Introductlon of Lead
Free  a                                                         -



Pro0raluer and Project Titles                   J 1991         1992         1993       19                                           19981   1999           2000
.  NilJonIl Parka Jad bildllfe Conservation
Prof name
C.1 Vl dlife lunvtlories and Protection of
fare lndiatgered Species                                               I     _                                                           i-      I      -        I-_-I
C.2 Control the Import and Export of lant#
and Animals
G.3 Control of Pestieldes                                         -                -
0.4 skabilltatilon of Curleus, National Park
C.5 lmproveeoat of Iational Parta
C.6 Rtbabillat ion of Aldabra Yorld leritlage
C.7 Eradicalilon of Feral Goalts from Aldabra
Atoll
G.8 OVprading tbe National Botanical Garden                               I
G.9   tilonal Parka sad Ulldlife Servit   e                               I      l              1I      1        1 I    -       I            i            jI
C.10 Conservation Strategy aDd matloiul Parko
Nanagement Plano                                                    I-   -I
H.  forests Hanagement Pgrramme                                                   I                       _
H1.  Preservation of Eodemic free Specles                                                  I                      I
1.2 forest fire ConIllnen   Pain                                                         I_       I
H.3 PreparAtioa. lmplementiatio   of ational                                 I      I
Foroet Naslgecant plan
0



Protrilles and P.oJect Tliles                  1991   191992   1          93 "l [995 f9[                    6       1991     199O         1999       2000
1.  CoatIal Invironcnt mlanageuent prolpane
1.1 Coastal  and Marine 14vromeat ihse]lan  Study
1.?2 beack  rosion Coatrtol                                                             -             -/
1.3 llternatlivee to Reduce Sied Use Is
Construction                                                                      1
1.4 Ieview of Coastal long Manageamet Mian-
J.  Harlot Resources Hanagement Progrnue
J.1 Protection of Indingered Sea Turtles                                                            I
J.3 varile Resourcest Maageoent Plaie                                              I                       I         -I                    _I
I. fnvironmeatil Law and fatorceneat ?romraue
1.1 levsIlna of Environomnt laaiatloJa  
l.  Elroasental lnforostiont  Iducatlo and
Trainnlg Ptogranns
l. lnvironuaentil DocuuetatiJon Centre sad
lnfornatloa Syste                                               I-l I                      -ii _                        I          i        1I-1_
l.2 lncresae Public lnfornatioA and
Prtilcipatlioal on  ronueat e                                          II            II         ii         11         II         ii           1        i
L. 3 lipand lnvironentait  Nducallon.                         I                         I   I           I            -      l            J      J        J     J... 
L.  uipand Inviroeuentai  trainig                                               l-       I     -        1      1  1       1     -        I      I     -               I
08



Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
SEYCHELLES: GEF PROGRAM
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN OF SEYCHELLES (EMPS):
ESTABLISHMENT OF A NATIONAL COORDINATOR
A. BACKGROUND AND JUSTIFICATION
The accompanying review of the progress of the EMPS since the 1991 Donors'
Meeting demonstrates that the EMPS is not only a strategy for sustainable development but also
an investment program of some 51 proposed projects. For the strategy to be effectively carried
out, it is important that the investment program be adequately managed. Although many EMPS
projects are underway, a focal point for coordination, information exchange, and ultimate
accountability for the EMPS has been lacking. There is a danger that each unit assumes a
program is being carried out by someone else, with the result that no one carries it out.
Conversely, a single unit or agency, no matter how clearly defined its responsibility for the
subject in question, would need to establish channels for regular consultation or collaboration with
other interested parties.
Donors' pledges notwithstanding, very considerable efforts still need to be
expended, more than a year later, to lay hands on the funds that have been promised. The
Ministry of Environment, Economic Planning, and External Relations (MEPER) is primarily
preoccupied at present with the task of securing the remaining funding but should also be
ensuring the effective implementation of the EMPS by the various sector managers. The fact that,
with quite limited staff, it is charged with both tasks is at the heart of EMPS implementation
issues.
A significant share of the projects are being or will be managed by SFA, DOI,
SIF and other agencies. For these projects the Planning Ministry has only a minimal monitoring
role. Most of the projects will be managed by the Environment Division, but it would be useful
for MEPER to be able to overview these in the same context as those managed outside the
Ministry. Preparation of terms of reference and of short lists of consultants for studies,
recruitment of staff or advisers, transportation arrangements, and the like would be handled by
the implementing agencies. For these reasons, specific arrangements for information exchange
and consultation between the implementing unit and MEPER should be concluded.
B. NATIONAL COORDINATOR
The position of National Coordinator will be established in MEPER. The
National Coordinator will provide advice, exchange of information on progress of the EMPS in
different sectors, and supervision of implementation, but would not manage all projects. The
importance and increasingly high profile of the EMPS requires a full-time National Coordinator
to ensure that the EMPS meets the national objectives defined for it. With effective coordination



Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
of dispersed management of EMPS projects within other agencies, the most specialized expertise
can be brought to bear on EMPS projects without overburdening one or another ministry.
Up to now, most of the work of coordination of the EMPS has been carried out
by a Senior Economist in the Planning Section of MEPER, together with one or two colleagues.
Few Seychellois are available at this time to fill a coordinator role of this breadth, although there
are young graduates in this ministry who are assisting the Senior Economist.
It is proposed that the Senior Economist be appointed as National Coordinator
of the EMPS for a period of 12 to 18 months. The National Coordinator wiil report to the
Director-General of the Environment Division, and keep the Director-General of Planning and
Economic Cooperation closely informed on the discharge of his duties. His main task will be
to see to it that the EMPS is effectively implemented. An Assistant Coordinator will work
closely with the National Coordinator, whose job it will be to train the assistant in all aspects of
this work.
It is important that this appointment not be made at the expense of other essential
work of the ministry. The Planning Section will need to be strengthened, at a mininum by the
appointment of another Senior Econornist.
The duties of the National Coordinator will be as follows:
e     Assist the Government in securing external funds for EMPS projects with
realistic financing prospects
e     Prepare a monthly report on the progress of implementation of the
projects in the EMPS investment plan
*     Carry out continuous, on the job training of the Assistant so that he or
she may be able to take over as National Coordinator as soon as possible
a     Continue to advise the new National Coordinator after his or her
appointment to help ensure a smooth transition
*     Sustain adequate communication with funding agencies,  Government
ministries, and other agencies to ensure their full participation in the
process of EMPS implementation
*     Where implementation responsibility lies outside the ministry, ensure
minimum monitoring of progress, it being understood however that
management responsibility for these projects lies with the implementing
bodies concerned
*     Assist the Environment Steering Committee in carrying out periodic
reviews of the EMPS investment program
*     Provide leadership and clarity of purpose in the EMPS implementation.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
As for possible sources of funding of the position of National Coordinator, the
Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation (CFTC) is already funding a Senior Economist
position in the ministry. The term of this contract expires in February 1993. Although the
Government has asked for it to be extended, the contract is not likely to be renewed on the same
terms as before. A financing proposal for the National Coordinator position would be submitted
to CFTC, to take effect for the incumbent Senior Economist as from February 1993. The
importance of the position and the firmly established handing-over to a Seychellois would satisfy
specific criteria of CFTC. It is important, however, that the priority of this proposal be
established among the many other requests sent to CFTC by Seychelles.
If CFTC financing does not materialize, other grant funding would be sought.
Contact would be made, for example, with the Club of Dublin which deals with national
environmental action plans and has access to several interested donors.



Annex 3
Page 1 of I
SEYCHELLES
MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT, ECONOMIC PLANNING
AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS (MEPER)
ENVIRONMENT DIVISION
Organizational Chart
MMinister
(MEPER)
Director-General
Enrironment Division
[_technical Advisers      l                                                                 Informaton and
Educabion Unit
Adrninistration Section
Forestry Secton                              Nabonal Parks                          Environmental Assessment
and Conservaiion                              miad Inspection
Forestry  Parks        Natlenal                               ~~~~~~~~~~PoNuflon Contral  Evonental
unitSfly        and Gardens               Natiokal          Conservaton             and inspection       Assssmnent
Unit              Unitarl             Unit                    Ui                    m
sads\w52 108



Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
SEYCHELLES
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
RESTORATION AND PRESERVATION OF THE ALDABRA ECOSYSTEM
A. INTRODUCTION
Aldabra, the world's largest coral atoll, is situated in the Indian Ocean some
1,200 km southeast of Mahe, the main island of the Seychelles. With a land area of 35,000 ha,
it consists of 4 main islands which encircle a central lagoon about 30 km in diameter. The
islands consist mainly of rough weathered coral rock, there is little soil and a shortage of fresh
water. Rainfall is concentrated in the period December to April, followed by an extended dry
season. Rainfall averages about 1200 mm annually, compared with 2200 mm on Mahe, with a
variation from 1500 mm down to 500 mm.
Its remoteness and inhospitable environment have afforded Aldabra a measure of
protection, as early seafarers and colonists had only moderate interest in the island. This has
resulted in Aldabra being the only largely intact island ecosystem left in the Indian Ocean,
representing what the other coral atolls were like before man arrived. In the region at various
times, at least 7 species of tortoises have been present on several Indian Ocean islands. Through
human consumption as well as environmental changes, the Aldabra population of tortoises is the
only one remaining in the Indian Ocean and is one of two (with the Galapagos Islands) in the
world. Its size permits it to harbor distinct inland ecosystems with endemic plants and insects,
a rarity among coral islands. The atoll is surrounded by a rich and largely undisturbed marine
environment. There are at least 178 species of flowering plants (of which about 20% are
endemic), over 200 species of algae and nearly 1,000 species of insects, of which fully 39% are
endemic.
B. THREATS AND DISTURBANCES
Island ecosystems, due to their remoteness and the absence of large predators,
often evolve in ways which make their plants and animals especially vulnerable to introduced
species and to man. Defense mechanisms were not always required: birds did not have to fly or
plants to secrete unpalatable chemicals.  As a result, some 74%  of all bird and mammal
extinctions have been of island-dwelling species.
The growing scientific interest in Aldabra has contended with attempts at
commercial exploitation and with the introduction of non-native species. From its discovery in
the 16th century until the late 1800s, exploitation consisted mainly of crews of the occasional ship
taking some tortoises, fishing, or felling trees. Aldabra has never sustained any permanent
community of settlers, although several attempts were made during the 19th and 20th century.
In 1874, the central authorities in Mauritius planned to start a woodcutting and timber industry
on Aldabra. This idea was abandoned after Charles Darwin and other naturalists intervened with



Annex 4
Page 2 of 5
the Governor of Mauritius. Four years later a hydrographic survey of the atoll was completed.
This marked the beginning of organized scientific research on the atoll.  Meanwhile the
authorities continued to grant leases for fishing, timber extraction, and the catching of green
turtles and giant tortoises. This practice continued after Seychelles was separated from Mauritius
in 1903; indeed, some leases were still in effect in 1971 when the Royal Society leased the atoll.
Beginning in the 1950s, however, the scientific interest of Aldabra has steadily grown to
dominate other interests on the atoll. The most recent, and most severe, threat to this scientific
vocation came in 1964-67, when some Western governments, led by the US, drew up plans to
turn the atoll into a strategic military installation. The controversy that this proposal brought
about was resolved in favor of conservation, and the plans were abandoned.
Threats to the Aldabra ecosystem from introduced species have been continuous
for the past hundred years, somewhat in contrast to the the episodic involvement of humans.
Goats were introduced on Aldabra in about 1880 as a source of meat. Since tortoises were taken
as food by passing ships, the tortoise population at the time was much reduced. It was therefore
possible for the goats, with a more extensive range than the tortoise, to increase in numbers.
This was at first not perceived as a problem since goats as well as tortoises would be taken by
ships passing and the populations were smaller. When the use of goats for ship supply gradually
disappeared over the past 50 years, there was no longer any constraint on growth of the goat
population.
Goats are a severe threat to the giant tortoise population of Aldabra, estimated
at some 150,000 individuals. Goats compete for food with the tortoises, but perhaps even more
importantly they destroy the trees and shrubs which the tortoises need for shade as they cannot
survive being out in the sun all day. They also prevent regeneration by eating the seedlings of
trees and shrubs.  Other impacts have included erosion of the already meager soils and
destruction of vegetation.
The isolation of the Aldabra atoll has recently been greatly reduced with the
completion of an airstrip on Assomption Island, 27 km from Aldabra. This means that Aldabra
will be much more easily accessible for tourism in the future. Indeed, some plans have already
been made to open Aldabra up for ecotourism similarly to the way this is done in the Galapagos
Islands. The opening up of Aldabra for ecotourism calls for a sound management plan to ensure
that tourism will not have a detrimental effect on the island.
C. MANAGEMENT OF RESEARCH AND CONSERVATION ON ALDABRA
Scientific work on Aldabra was first recorded in the 1870s but has been ongoing
in several stages throughout this century. After the atoll was declared a strict natural reserve in
1971, the island was leased to the Royal Society (UK), which initiated a systematic program of
research and built a research station to provide laboratory facilities and accommodation to visiting
scientists. In 1980, the Seychelles Island Foundation (SIF), a charitable trust with Seychellois and
international members on a Board of Trustees, took over management of Aldabra from the Royal
Society. Members of the SIF Board include the Royal Society, the Smithsonian Institution



Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
(USA), the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the Royal Society for
Nature Conservation (UK), and ORSTOM (France).
The research facility serves the dual purpose of research and conservation. The
activities of the research station are directed by the warden, who also is in charge of the strict
nature reserve. The warden is assisted by a conservation officer. The engineer is charged with
keeping in good working order the 3 electric generators, radio equipment, and equipment of the
weather station. The operation relies heavily on several skilled workers such as carpenters,
overland guides, and boatmen. An accommodation block with 16 rooms houses visiting and
resident scientists.
The station's premises, now 20 years old, are in urgent need of repair and
renovation. Similarly, the age and condition of the equipment is affecting the quality of research.
Staff may not be sufficient in numbers and training to cope with the new demands posed by
greater accessibility of the atoll to tourism. For these reasons the restoration project for Aldabra
atoll consists of four main components:  (a) rehabilitation of the research facility; (b)
strengthening of managerial and scientific personnel; (c) eradication of goats; and (d) preparation
of a Long-Term Management Plan.
D. THE RESTORATION PROGRAM FOR ALDABRA
Rehabilitation of the Research Facility
An assessment of the works and equipment necessary for the rehabilitation of the
research station was carried out by an engineer from the Ministry of Community Development
in 1989. A first phase of works was completed by late 1989. This phase included the renovation
of the 5 rain water collection tanks and the construction of 6 laborers' cottages.
The GEF program would finance the second phase, consisting of works and
acquisition of equipment. Works include (a) renovation of the laboratory; (b) repairs to the
accommodation block, rest area, and clinic; (c) construction of a sanitation system; and (d)
reconstruction of the slipway. Equipment to be acquired includes tables, bookcases, water and
gas supply, beds, and camping equipment. The supply of boats, the only form of transportation
around the atoll, would be enhanced through acquisition of a 17-ft. dory with 2 40-hp outboard
motors, and 3 25-hp outboards for existing boats. Acquisition of laboratory equipment would
be limited to 2 microscopes, as scientists are expected to bring most of their own small
equipment.
Managerial and Scientirlc Personnel
It has proved increasingly difficult for SIF to recruit, for a long term assignment
on Aldabra, someone with the leadership talents as well as knowledge of conservation issues and
government policies to function as both scientist and nature warden. Many previous attempts to
place qualified scientists or managers on the atoll failed due to the difficult living conditions and
isolation.  To overcome this difficulty and ensure the necessary continuity of action for



Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
conservation programs, it is proposed to recruit a team of two scientists with managerial
experience. Taking advantage of the improved access through the airstrip on Assomption Island,
the scientist-managers could share their time or alternate between Aldabra, Mahe, and overseas
travels. SIF advertised for such a person in 1989, but could not find a suitable candidate locally.
Recruitment of expatriate personnel is therefore considered to be necessary.
The full-time manager's role would be to oversee the upgrading of services,
provide guidance to visiting scientists, and help ensure a suitable quality standard for scientific
research. In so doing the manager would improve the functioning of SIF itself. At present, the
SIF Board of Trustees, half of whom are expatriates from research organizations around the
world, meets once a year. The Seychellois executive group of the Board of Trustees meets once
a month to handle problems that have arisen as well as to prepare for Board meetings. There is
currently no permanent staff managing the SIF. With the greater opportunities for ecosystem
restoration afforded by the present program, in addition to the pressure from increased access to
visitors, it is doubtful whether SIF in its present form will be able to manage the increased level
of activities. The full-time manager would address this issue.
The program would cover salary complements for external assistance and overseas
social security contributions for a period of 2 years, as well as overseas travel expenses and a
vehicle.
Control of Goats
Goat control has been attempted on Aldabra since research began. Confinement
to one island of the group was ineffective, since goats can swim the channels between islands.
The GEF-supported goat control program has involved a broader investigation into all methods
of removal. SIF will apply these methods in a control campaign that will extend over a full year,
for maximum coverage. The program can be extended by six months if necessary.
Long-Term Management Plan
Long-range planning for Aldabra is vital, to ensure that the easier access to the
atoll yields greater scientific knowledge without encouraging encroachment on the ecosystem.
Critical issues that would be addressed in the Long-Term Management Plan for the atoll include
the number and frequency of visits by non-scientists, supervision of visitors while on the island,
liaison with other reserves and national parks in Seychelles, and the prospects for ecotourism
programs. The Management Plan would specify the institutional requirements for the adequate
functioning of the SIF and the management system on Aldabra itself.
Preparation of the Management Plan would be the responsibility of SIF, which
would draw primarily upon the experience of the warden and managers on Aldabra and the
technical expertise within the Division of Environment. A total of 2 specialist-months of
expatriate assistance will be financed under the program to assist SIF in specific aspects of
preparation.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
Detailed cost estimates for the Aldabra ecosystem restoration program, as well
as annualized costs showing the time path of implementation, are attached as Appendix 2 and 3
of this Annex.



Annex 4
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 9
SEYCHELLES
ALDABRA RESTORATION AND PRESERVATION PROGRAM
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The Management Plan for Aldabra consists of four main components: (a)
rehabilitation of the research station; (b) strengthening of managerial and scientific capacity of
the SIF; (c) eradication of goats; and (d) preparation of a Long-Term Management Plan. The
background section of these Terms of Reference describes the interrelationship between these
components, and is followed by a separate scope of work for each of the components.
Background
A. DESCRIPTION OF ALDABRA
Aldabra, the world's largest coral atoll, is situated in the Indian Ocean some
1,200 km southeast of Mahe, the main island of the Seychelles. With a land area of 35,000 ha,
it consists of 4 main islands which encircle a central lagoon about 30 km in diameter. The
islands consist mainly of rough weathered coral rock, there is little soil and a shortage of fresh
water. Rainfall is concentrated in the period December to April, followed by an extended dry
season. Rainfall averages about 1200 mm annually, compared with 2200 mm on Mahe, with a
variation from 1500 mm down to 500 mm.
Its remoteness and inhospitable environment have afforded Aldabra a measure of
protection, as early seafarers and colonists had only moderate interest in the island. This has
resulted in Aldabra being the only largely intact island ecosystem left in the Indian Ocean,
representing what the other coral atolls were like before man arrived. In the region at various
times, at least 7 species of tortoises have been present on several Indian Ocean islands. Through
human consumption as well as environmental changes, the Aldabra population is the only one
remaining in the Indian Ocean and is one of two (with the Galapagos Islands) in the world. Its
size permits it to harbor distinct inland ecosystems with endemic plants and insects, a rarity
among coral islands.  The atoll is surrounded by a rich and largely undisturbed marine
environment. There are at least 178 species of flowering plants (of which about 20% are
endemic), over 200 species of algae and nearly 1,000 species of insects, of which fully 39% are
endemic.



Annex 4
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 9
B. THREATS AND DISTURBANCES
Island ecosystems, due to their remoteness and the absence of large predators,
often evolve in ways which make their plants and animals especially vulnerable to introduced
species and to man. Defense mechanisms such as flight in birds or unpalatable chemicals in
plants, did not have to develop. As a result, some 74% of all bird and mammal extinctions have
been of island-dwelling species.
The growing scientific interest in Aldabra has contended with attempts at
commercial exploitation and with the introduction of non-native species. From its discovery in
the 16th century until the late 1800s, exploitation consisted mainly of crews of the occasional ship
taking some tortoises, fishing, or felling trees. Aldabra has never sustained any permanent
community of settlers, although several attempts were made during the 19th and 20th century.
In 1874, the central authorities in Mauritius planned to start a woodcutting and timber industry
on Aldabra. This idea was abandoned after Charles Darwin and other naturalists intervened with
the Governor of Mauritius. Four years later a hydrographic survey of the atoll was completed.
This marked the beginning of organized scientific research on the atoll.  Meanwhile the
authorities continued to grant leases for fishing, timber extraction, and the catching of green
turtles and giant tortoises. This practice continued after Seychelles was separated from Mauritius
in 1903; indeed, some leases were still in effect in 1971 when the Royal Society leased the atoll.
Beginning in the 1950s, however, the scientific interest of Aldabra has steadily grown to
dominate other interests on the atoll. The most recent, and most severe, threat to this scientific
vocation came in 1964-67, when some Western governments, led by the US, drew up plans to
turn the atoll into a strategic military installation. The controversy that this proposal brought
about was resolved in favor of conservation, and the plans were abandoned.
Threats to the Aldabra ecosystem from introduced species have been continuous
for the past hundred years, somewhat in contrast to the the episodic involvement of humans.
Goats were introduced on Aldabra in about 1880 as a source of meat. Since tortoises were taken
as food by passing ships, the tortoise population at the time was much reduced. It was therefore
possible for the goats, with a more extensive range than the tortoise, to increase in numbers.
This was at first not perceived as a problem since goats as well as tortoises would be taken by
ships passing and the populations were smaller. When the use of goats for ship supply gradually
disappeared over the past 50 years, there was no longer any constraint on growth of the goat
population.
Goats are a severe threat to the giant tortoise population of Aldabra, estimated
at some 150,000 individuals. Goats compete for food with the tortoises, but perhaps even more
importantly they destroy the trees and shrubs which the tortoises need for shade as they cannot
survive being out in the sun all day. They also prevent regeneration by eating the seedlings of
trees and shrubs.  Other impacts have included erosion of the already meager soils and
destruction of vegetation.
The isolation of the Aldabra atoll has recently been greatly reduced with the
completion of an airstrip on Assomption Island, 27 km from Aldabra. This means that Aldabra



Annex 4
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 9
will be much more easily accessible for tourism in the future. Indeed, some plans have already
been made to open Aldabra up for ecotourism similarly to the way this is done in the Galapagos
Islands. The opening up of Aldabra for ecotourism calls for a sound management plan to ensure
that tourism will not have a detrimental effect on the island.
C. MANAGEMENT OF RESEARCH AND CONSERVATION ON ALDABRA
Scientific work on Aldabra was first recorded in the 1870s but has been ongoing
in several stages throughout this century. After the atoll was declared a strict natural reserve in
1971, the island was leased to the Royal Society (UK), which initiated a systematic program of
research and built a research station to provide laboratory facilities and accommodation to visiting
scientists. In 1980, the Seychelles Island Foundation (SIF), a charitable trust with Seychellois and
international members on a Board of Trustees, took over management of Aldabra from the Royal
Society. Members of the SIF Board include the Royal Society, the Smithsonian Institution
(USA), the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the Royal Society for
Nature Conservation (UK), and ORSTOM (France).
The research facility serves the dual purpose of research and conservation. The
activities of the research station are directed by the warden, who also is in charge of the strict
nature reserve. The warden is assisted by a conservation officer. The engineer is charged with
keeping in good working order the 3 electric generators, radio equipment, and equipment of the
weather station. The operation relies heavily on several skilled workers such as carpenters,
overland guides, and boatmen. An accommodation block with 16 rooms houses visiting and
resident scientists.
The station's premises, now 20 years old, are in urgent need of repair and
renovation. Similarly, the age and condition of the equipment is affecting the quality of research.
Staff may not be sufficient in numbers and training to cope with the new demands posed by
greater accessibility of the atoll to tourism. For these reasons the restoration project for Aldabra
atoll consists of four main components:  (a) rehabilitation of the research facility; (b)
strengthening of managerial and scientific capacity of the SIF; (c) eradication of goats; and (d)
preparation of a Long-Term Management Plan.
D. THE RESTORATION AND PRESERVATION PROGRAM FOR ALDABRA
Rehabilitation of the Research Facility
An assessment of the works and equipment necessary for the rehabilitation of the
research station was carried out by an engineer from the Ministry of Community Develoment in
1989. A first phase of works was completed by late 1989. This phase included the renovation
of the 5 rain water collection tanks and the construction of 6 laborers' cottages.



Annex 4
Appendix 1
Page 4 of 9
The GEF program would finance the second phase, consisting of works and
acquisition of equipment. Works include (a) renovation of the laboratory; (b) repairs to the
accommodation block, rest area, and clinic; (c) construction of a sewerage system; and (d)
reconstruction of the slipway. Equipment to be acquired includes tables, bookcases, water and
gas supply, beds, and camping equipment. The supply of boats, the only form of transportation
around the atoll, would be enhanced through acquisition of a 17-ft. dory with 2 40-hp outboard
motors, and 3 25-hp outboards for existing boats. Acquisition of laboratory equipment would
be limited to 2 microscopes, as scientists are expected to bring most of their own small
equipment.
Strengthening of Managerial and Scientific Capacity of the SIF
It has proved increasingly difficult for SIF to recruit, for a long term assignment
on Aldabra, someone with the leadership talents as well as knowledge of conservation issues and
government policies to function as both scientist and nature warden. Many previous attempts to
place qualified scientists or managers on the atoll failed due to the difficult living conditions and
isolation.  To overcome this difficulty and ensure the necessary continuity of action for
conservation programs, it is proposed to recruit a team of two scientists with managerial
experience. Taking advantage of the improved access through the airstrip on Assomption Island,
the scientist-managers could share their time or alternate between Aldabra, Mahe, and overseas
travels. SIF advertised for such a person in 1989, but could not find a suitable candidate locally.
Recruitment of expatriate personnel is therefore considered to be necessary.
The full-time manager's role would be to oversee the upgrading of services,
provide guidance to visiting scientists, and help ensure a suitable quality standard for scientific
research. In so doing the manager would improve the functioning of SIF itself. At present, the
SIF Board of Trustees, half of whom are expatriates from research organizations around the
world, meets once a year. The Seychellois executive group of the Board of Trustees meets once
a month to handle problems that have arisen as well as to prepare for Board meetings. There is
currently no permanent staff managing the SIF. With the greater opportunities for ecosystem
restoration afforded by the present program, in addition to the pressure from increased access to
visitors, it is doubtful whether SIF in its present form will be able to manage the increased level
of activities. The full-time manager would address this issue.
The program would cover salary complements for external assistance and overseas
social security contributions for a period of 2 years, as well as overseas travel expenses and a
vehicle.
Control of Goats
Goat control has been attempted on Aldabra since research began. Confinement
to one island of the group was ineffective, since goats can swim the channels between islands.
The GEF-supported goat control program has involved a broader investiagtion into all methods
of removal. SIF will apply these methods in a control campaign that will extend over a full year,
for maximum coverage. The program can be extended by six months if necessary.



Annex 4
Appendix 1
Page 5 of 9
Long-Term Management Plan
Long-range planning for Aldabra is vital, to ensure that the easier access to the
atoll yields grater scientific knowledge without encouraging encroachment on the ecosystem.
Critical issues that would be addressed in the Long-Term Management Plan for the atoll include
the number and frequency of visits by non-scientists, supervision of visitors while on the island,
liaison with other reserves and national parks in Seychelles, and the prospects for ecotourism
programs. The Management Plan would specify the institutional requirements for the adequate
functioning of the SIF and the management system on Aldabra itself.
Preparation of the Management Plan would be the responsibility of SIF, which
would draw primarily upon the experience of the warden and managers on Aldabra and the
technical expertise within the Division of Environment. One or both consultants to be seconded
to the SIF for two years under the strenghthening of SIF's managerial and scientific capacity
program are expected to draft much or all of the Management Plan while a total of 2 specialist-
months of expatriate assistance could be financed under the program to assist SIF in specific
aspects of the preparation of this Plan.



Annex 4
Appendix 1
Page 6 of 9
SEYCHELLES
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
ALDABRA RESTORATION AND PRESERVATION PROGRAM
REHABILITATION OF ALDABRA RESEARCH FACILITY
IMPLEMENTATION GUIDELINES
Objectives
The objectives of this portion of the Aldabra program are to (i) carry out
necessary repairs and renovation on the scientific research buildings and associated facilities on
Ile Picard; and (ii) provide additional equipment, materials, and supplies to improve the research
capability of permanent and visiting staff.
Scope of Work
(a)    With inputs from the Manager and staff of the research station and from participating
research institutions, the Seychelles Island Foundation (SIF) will prepare a detailed work
plan for the improvements including a description of the scope and content of
rehabilitation works, cost estimates, and timetable for implementation. The work plan
will include an assessment of the capability of technical staff and laborers on Aldabra to
carry out specific portions of the works. It would also specify the relationship between
the Research Manager on Aldabra and the works supervisor. On this basis SIF would
recommend, if appropriate, which portion of the rehabilitation would be undertaken
directly by staff of the research station. Works would begin in March 1993 and extend
until December 1993.
(b)    Excluding any portion to be carried out by research station staff, local contractors and
construction firms would be invited to bid on rehabilitation works as a package. Bid
invitations would be advertised locally and transmitted to foreign embassies represented
in Seychelles. Foreign firms, although they are not expected to show strong interest in
the rehabilitation works, will be allowed to bid.
(c)    Equipment, materials, and supplies would be obtained through local shopping procedures
with at least three price quotations.



Annex 4
Appendix I
Page 7 of 9
Implementation
SIF, in collaboration with the Division of Environment of the Ministry of
Environment, Economic Planning, and External Relations, will supervise the rehabilitation
program and the acquisition of equipment and materials.



Annex 4
Appendix 1
Page 8 of 9
SEYCHELLES
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
ALDABRA RESTORATION AND PRESERVATION PROGRAM
STRENGTHENING OF MANAGERIAL AND SCIENTIFIC PERSONNEL
AND PREPARATION OF A LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT PLAN
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Objectives
The objectives of this portion of the Aldabra program are to enable the SIF to
better manage Aldabra so as to achieve the long-term objectives for the atoll. For this purpose,
the secondment of two scientists with managerial skills is envisaged for a period of two years.
During this period, in accordance with a timetable to be established by SIF in consultation with
the Division of Environment, a long-term management plan for Aldabra will be prepared. It is
expected that preparation will be launched when the upgrading of research facilities and the goat
eradication program are well advanced or completed.
Scope of Work
The Managerial and Scientific Personnel will:
(a)    Supervise the upgrading of facilities on Aldabra, by delegation from the
resident Manager of the research station
(b)    Provide assistance to SIF in all aspects of its operation, including a
review of its organisational structure, operating procedures, and relations
with Government ministries and agencies
(c)    Participate in planning of fund-raising for financial sustainability of SIF
(d)    Assist with preparation of public information materials on Aldabra
(e)    Ensure liaison with external organisations having an interest in Aldabra.
The Long Term Management Plan will include:
(a)    An assessment of the state of the environment of Aldabra Atoll



Annex 4
Appendix I
Page 9 of 9
(b)    An evaluation of the necessity and feasibility of the eradication or control
of other introduced species such as rats and cats
(c)    Detailed presentation of scenarios for the future of Aldabra.  The
presentation will include impact analysis of alternative futures including
(i) no change in current status; (ii) eventual wider access to the atoll, or
designated parts of it, for nature tourism and ecotourism; and (iii)
consequences for organization of visits, areas accessible to and closed to
visitors, guides, rules and regulations concerning protection of
ecosystems, etc.  Full costs and benefits of each scenario will be
assessed.
(d)    Planning of marine ecotourism in conjunction with terrestrial ecotourism
(e)    Drafting of procedures and regulations for scientific research
(f)    Determination of requirements for staff, including task descriptions
(g)    Determination of any additional equipment, infrastructure, or facilities
that will be necessary for attainment of long-term objectives.
Implementation
SIF will be responsible for the provision of scientific and managerial personnel.
Preparation of the long-term management plan will be the responsibility of the Government of
Seychelles.  The Government has designated SIF as lead agency in this effort.  SIF as
representative of the Government will ensure that the full range of relevant views held by
Government ministries, the private sector, and concerned international research institutions is
expressed during preparation of the long-term management plan.
In drafting the plan, SIF will bring to bear its own resources, in addition to those
of the scientific and managerial personnel on Aldabra. A total of three months of specialist
expertise is also available to SIF through the GEF program for this purpose. Close liaison will
be maintained throughout with the Division of Environment, Ministry of Environment, Economic
Planning, and External Relations.



Annex 4
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 1
Soycholless GEF Program
Biodiversity Conservation
Restoration and Preservation of Aldabra Ecosystem
Detailed Cost Eutimates
Local     Foreign     Total     % Total
-------------- (SR 000) ---------------
A.  RZHABILITATION OF
RESEARCH STATION
1.  Renovation and repair
of buildings & facilities                  208        323        531
2.  Laboratory &
other equipment a/                                    355        355
Subtotal                                 208        678        886       0.30
B STRZZECNTHNINC OF M1AAGZRIAL
AND SCIENTIFIC PERSONNZL
1. Salaries                                     74        697        771
2.  International travel                                  151        151
3.  1 Light vehicle (Mahe)                                 75         75
Subtotal                                  74        923        997       0.34
C.  CONTROL OF GOATS
1. Salarion and Stipends                                  519        519
2. Equipment b/                                           113        113
3. Domestic and international                   88        100        188
travel
Subtotal                                  88        732        820       0.28
D   PREPARATIOF OF LOFG TERM
MANAGECDMT PLAN
1.  Short-term specialists                      27        243        270
(3 ap-montha)
Subtotal                                  27        243        270       0.09
Total Cost                              397      2,576      2,973        1.00
a/        fiberglass dory, outboard engines, laboratory equipment, beds and
mattresses, camping equipment
b/        headsets, shoes, flashlights and batteries



Ann-x 4
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 1
Seychellese GIN Program
Biodiveraity Conmervation
Restoration snd Preservation of Aldabra Eaoaystea
Coat Datiates by Tear
1993                     1994                     1995
Local  Forgn    Total  Local  Forqn   Total  Local  Forgn  Total
---------------------- (SR 000) -____________
A.  RREBAILITATION O0
RISEARCE STATIOU
1.  Renovation and repair
of buildinga  facilities          208      323      531
2.  Laboratory &
other equipment                             215      215              140     140
Subtotal                        208       538      746             140      140
S. STRNGTURUIUU OF KJMANGERIAL
AED SCIfDYIJIC PRRSONNEL
1.  Salaries                            19      173      192      36      351     387      19     173      192
2.  International travel                         32        32              76      76               43      43
3.  1 Light vehicle                              75        75
Subtotal                          19      280      299     36      427      463      19    216      235
C.  CONTROL OF GOATS
1.  salaries and Stipends                       310      310                                      209     209
2.  Equipment                                   113       113
3.  Donestic and international          70       91      161      12       15      27
travel
Subtotal                          70      514      584     12        15      27             209     209
D. PRNPARATION OF LONG TERX
-MANAKNNET PLAN
1.  Short-term specialists                                        iS      162     180      14       76      90
(3 sp-months)
Subtotal                                                   18       162     180      14      76      90
Total Cost                     297   1,332   1,629        66      744      810      33    50l    534



Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
SEYCHELLES
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
TURTLE PROTECTION PROGRAM
A. THE SETTING
Sea turtle populations around the world are rapidly being depleted. This has occurred
to such an extent that the CITES Convention (the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna) considers all species of sea turtles as being
endangered. Consequently, trade in these species or in products made from them is prohibited.
CITES is the world's major treaty regulating international trade in species threatened or
endangered by commerce. When CITES entered into effect in 1975, most species of sea turtles
were included in Appendix I, a listing of species considered to be in danger of extinction. By
1981 all species of sea turtles were so listed.
T'he depletion of the turtle populations has mainly been caused by human activities
such as alterations in feeding and nesting areas, hunting for domestic consumption and export,
egg collection, and accidental capture in fishing nets. Of these, the international trade in turtle
products has been the main cause of depletion of stocks around the world.
The sea turtle species that breed on the Seychelles islands are the Green (Chelonia
mydas) and Hawksbill (Eretmochelys imbricata) turtles. Both species have been important
economically since the islands were first settled. The Green turtle was once plentiful in the
northern granitic islands of Seychelles, but is now virtually extinct in the granitic islands and rare
in the Amirantes Group. Its last large wild refuge is on Aldabra. Where it is found on other
outlying islands, however, Green turtles continue to be caught mainly for local consumption by
residents of these islands. Restrictions were placed by a December 1990 law on the number of
licenses for the taking of Green turtles issued to the Islands Development Company (IDC), which
manages most outer islands, by the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA). An earlier (1987) law
forbids the killing of female Green turtles, but has proved difficult to enforce. Their shells are
usually discarded as being of limited value.  In 1983, the population of Green turtles in
Seychelles was estimated at 3,500 - 5,000 nesting females.
Hawksbill turtles are caught for their shell, which is worked by about 20 artisans and
sold mainly to tourists. There has also been some direct export of shells that are unprocessed.
The flesh of the Hawksbill is not consumed as it is considered poisonous. However, the eggs
of both species are consumed. Current knowledge of Hawksbill populations in Seychelles is
derived largely from the comprehensive study carried out in the early 1980s by J. Mortimer,
under the auspices of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and the
World Wildlife Fund. The study concluded that both species of sea turtles were severely
overexploited in Seychelles and would vanish from many of the islands if the exploitation
continued unabated. The study also concluded that on the inner, granitic islands the Hawksbill
turtle had ceased to be an exploitable resource. In 1983, the population of Hawksbill turtles was
estimated at 1,200 -1,800 nesting females.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
Several attempts have been made to reduce the harvesting of sea turtles to arrive at
a sustainable level of exploitation.  Legislation enacted in 1925 remained the basis for
management of catches of sea turtles until 1987, when the law was strengthened for protection
purposes. However, enforcement was weak or nonexistent. Some provisions in the law were
impractical, such as the condition that only males can be taken (most turtles are caught by
harpooning in the water, when it is impossible to distinguish male from female). Based on the
results of the Mortimer study and on discussions during the September 1990 Technical Seminar
to prepare the EMPS, the issuance of licenses to capture Hawksbill turtles was stopped in
December 1990. This situation will remain in effect until an agreed protection plan (to be
undertaken under the present GEF program) is completed. The local sale of Hawksbill shell
items is still legal, from the stocks available before the ban went into effect. The international
sale of Hawksbill items has been illegal since Seychelles acceded to the CITES convention in
1977. (CITES concerns only international, not local, trade).
Seychelles is therefore not, strictly speaking, in violation of CITES regulations when
it permits the sale of Hawksbill turtle items in the local market. But these products are almost
exclusively sold to tourists, who then (often unknowingly) export them illegally. The Seychelles
authorities recognize that the Hawksbill trade violates the spirit if not the letter of CITES, and
should consequently be stopped. There is a potential US$10,000 fine and/or imprisonment for
the smuggling of turtle products out of the country, but it is not known whether greater
environmental awareness is having an effect on the numbers doing so. Several reports have also
been made of unlawful catches, but no one has yet been prosecuted.
B. OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the GEF-financed turtle conservation program vary according to
the specific protection requirements of each species. For the Green turtle the main objective is
to establish and maintain a harvesting regime which ensures that local consumption does not
exceed the sustainable harvesting volume. For the Hawksbill turtle, the principal goal is to
enable Seychelles to comply with the stipulations of the CITES convention. The GEF program
will support the preparation of a protection and management plan for each species.
C. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
Green Turtle Program
A critical element of the Green turtle management plan is a new stock assessment.
The most recent data are by now 10 years old. The stock assessment will be carried out for all
of Seychelles, and is expected to take 2 years. During the first year, expatriate expertise will be
involved on a continuous basis, to establish a local monitoring program. Activities will be
continued largely by local staff during the second year. The Hawksbill turtle will be included
in the stock assessment. During this period the conservation consultant carrying out the task will
be responsible for helping to train and strengthen local conservation officers in their current stock
assessment work. For several years after the initial assessment, the consultant will return to carry



Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
out updated assessments and assist in capacity building within the Conservation and National
Parks section of the Division of Environment, MEPER.
Once the stock assessment is completed, the management plan will be prepared. The
management plan will indicate numbers, size, gender, and locations of the offtake of males that
can be permitted in the three major island groups. A feasible program for monitoring the offtake,
especially the trade between the outer islands and Mahe, will be a central feature of the
management plan. Training in enforcement and regulation for the Conservation and National
Parks section will also be carried out.
Hawksbill Turtle Program
Those in Seychelles favorably disposed toward turtle farming or ranching are aware
that under CITES, export of turtle products could be considered if a successful program of
production of the endangered species, which ensures the recovery of the wild population, can be
established. Some interest has been expressed in Seychelles in establishing a Hawksbill turtle
farm. Moreover, the continuing commercial interest in turtles, and some success in ranching
crocodiles, have resulted in sea turtle ranching proposals being advanced at the CITES meetings
of 1983, 1985, and 1987.
These proposals were found to be deficient in several respects. Although the concept
is theoretically attractive, the fact remains that no Hawksbill turtle farms have become
commercially viable anywhere in the world. In the last few decades, sea turtle captive rearing
operations for trade and conservation have been attempted in Australia, Suriname, Palau,
Indonesia, Cuba, Reunion, and the Cayman Islands. None has succeeded. These efforts have
focused mainly on Green turtles, which are arguably easier to raise in captivity than Hawksbills.
The Reunion project was closed in 1988 after extensive press reports of unsanitary conditions and
the illegal killing of small turtles. The Cayman Islands operation, after nearly 20 years of
commercial non-viability, has evolved into a research facility, partially supported by tourism and
local sales of turtle meat. Consequently, the chances of such a farm succeeding in Seychelles are
considered to be remote.
The feasibility study of turtle farming will aim to estimate the full costs (often
underestimated in past studies) as well as benefits of such an operation. If the study concludes
that Hawksbill farming is not justified either on technical, economic, or environmental grounds,
no Hawksbill turtle farm will be established. If the study deems Hawksbill farming feasible,
Seychelles may decide to start farming. Any application for an exemption to the CITES
restrictions would be filed only after it has been demonstrated that the enterprise is successful.
In the meantime, the turtle shell products trade, based on capture in the wild, is being
phased out. The phasing out of the trade in turtle shell products will be supported by the GEF
program, which will provide the artisans with alternatives and compensation. The training and
development of artisans is the responsibility of the artisan development company CODEVAR,
under the leadership of the Department of Industry (DOI). Existing stocks of turtle shell can only
be sold, worked and resold as finished products by people possessing a license, the issuance of
which will be strictly limited.



Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
The compensation and re-installation package to be offered to artisans includes
financial and technical assistance for the acquisition of equipment and materials, market analyses
and advice in alternative occupations, and in some cases financial support for working capital.
The three-year time frame for the program, combined with the ban on commerce in turtle
products, is expected to be long enough for artisans to move out of the turtle craft trade and
become fully accustomed to their new livelihoods. DOI will continuously monitor the progress
of the artisans involved. If required, the package can provide for additional assistance toward
the end of the three-year period for any cases requiring a somewhat longer transition to new
occupations.
An effort by the GEF program will also be launched on the demand side to inform
tourists of the consequences of smuggling turtle products, but also emphasizing the positive
aspects of saving sea turtles. A short film will be prepared to be shown to tourists coming to
Seychelles. Public information materials will also be prepared in English, French, and Italian.
These efforts will be managed by the Division of Environment, MEPER. Training and education
within the Conservation and National Parks section, MEPER and in schools, as well as the
general public, will also be financed under the program. Training materials in Creole will be
prepared for this purpose.
In summary, the program for management of the Hawksbill turtle will:
a.     conduct a feasibility study of Hawksbill turtle farming;
b.     carry out a turtle trade compensation study;
c.     provide for retraining of artisans involved in working
Hawksbill turtle shell;
d.     provide alternative materials during the training period;
e.     provide, when necessary, revenue compensation for artisans for
a period of up to three years; and
f.     furnish educational materials for Seychellois and tourists on
the legal and conservation aspects of trade in and purchase of
turtle products.



Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 3
SEYCHELLES
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
TURTLE PROTECTION PROGRAM
GREEN TURTLE MANAGEMENT PLAN
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. BACKGROUND
Sea turtle populations around the world are rapidly being depleted to such an extent
that the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna
(CITES) recognizes all sea turtles as being endangered and consequently prohibits trade in these
species or in parts of or products made from them. The depletion of the turtle populations has
mainly been caused by human activities such as alterations in feeding and nesting areas, hunting
for domestic consumption and export, egg collection and accidental capture in fishing nets. Of
these, the international trade in turtle products has been the dominant cause of depletion of the
stocks around the world. In 1990 Seychelles completed an Environmental Management Plan
(EMPS). The EMPS includes a project which aims at the protection of sea turtles.
The sea turtle species that breed on the Seychelles islands are the Green (Chelonia
mydas) and Hawksbill (Eretmochelys imbricata) turtles. Both species have been important
economically. Green turtles are caught mainly for domestic consumption, while their shells are
usually discarded, being of limited value. Hawksbill turtles are caught for their shell, which is
worked by artisans and sold mainly to tourists. There has also been some direct export of shells
that are unprocessed. The flesh of the Hawksbill is not consumed as it is considered poisonous.
The eggs of both species are consumed however. Extensive information exists on the status of
the Green and Hawksbill turtle in Seychelles in a study carried out during 1981-84 by Dr. J
Mortimer under the auspices of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN)
and the World Wildlife Fund. The study concluded that both species of turtles were severely
overexploited in Seychelles and would vanish from many of the islands if the exploitation
continued unabated. The study also concluded that on the inner, granitic islands, the Hawksbill
turtle had dwindled as an exploitable resource.
Several attempts have been made to reduce the harvesting of sea turtles to arrive at
a sustainable level of exploitation.  Legislation approved in 1925 remained the basis for
management of catches of sea turtles until 1987, when the law was strengthened for protection
purposes. However, enforcement was weak or nonexistent and some provisions in the law, such
as the stipulation that only males can be taken, were impractical. Many turtles (mainly Green
Turtles) are caught by harpooning in the water, when it is impossible to distinguish male from
female. On the basis of deliberations during the Technical Conference on the EMPS in 1990 and
in view of the preparation of the GEF turtle protection program, the issuance of licenses to



Annex 5
Appendix I
Page 2 of 3
capture Hawksbill turtles was stopped in December 1990. Enforcement of the regulations,
however, leaves ample room for improvement. There are several reports of unlawful catches,
but no one has yet been prosecuted.
The sea turtle management program consists of 2 parts which are closely linked and
which are expected to yield data relevant to both parts: a management plan for Hawksbill turtle
and a plan for Green turtle management. Close coordination between the two management plans
is therefore required. The Terms of Reference given below concern the Green turtle.
Seychelles wishes to continue to allow the harvesting of Green turtles for local
consumption, but is concerned that the current level of harvest is not sustainable. Consequently
there is a risk that Green turtles will disappear from many islands in the Seychelles. The report
by Mortimer gives recommendations for the management of Green turtles, the most important
of which are still valid today. However, the quotas established for the capture of male Green
turtles are based on data which are now nearly 10 years old. It is therefore necessary to carry
out a new census to redefine the quota and advise on management measures, in view of the
changes that have taken place since the preparation of the EMPS.
Objectives
The objective of this program is to prepare a management plan for the Green turtle
in Seychelles that will ensure population recovery and a sustainable level of exploitation.
Scope of Work
Preparation of the Green Turtle Management Plan will include:
a.     A stock assessment of Green turtles for all the Seychelles islands.
b.     Evaluation of the importance of the present trade and consumption of green
turtles in Seychelles.
c.     An estimate of the quota and gender of Green turtles which could be
sustainably harvested from each of the islands based on the stock assessment.
d.     Recommendations on the method of harvesting.
e.     A review of the inter-island trade in Green turtle products and advice on the
implementation of restrictions.
f.     Review  of the present legislation on  Green  turtle protection  and
recommendations for improvement as necessary.
g.     Assessment of the trend in turtle populations based on past and present data.



Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 3
h.     Training of local conservation officers in their current stock assessment and
surveillance work.
i.     Recommendations for effective institutional arrangements for Green turtle
management.
j.     Collection of information  on  critical habitats, specific localities of
significance and aspects of turtle biology of direct importance to the
formulation of conservation measures.
k.     Preparation of a detailed map of the nesting beaches of Green turtles to
provide guidance for their protection.
1.     Recording of any information on Hawksbill turtles gathered during the study
and the field work.
m.    Elaboration and design of public information campaigns and programs.
n.     Formulation of a Management Plan for Green turtles in Seychelles.
Implementation
The work of the consultant will be supervised by the Environment Division, Ministry
of Environment, Economic Planning, and External Relations, and in particular by the
Conservation and National Parks Section of this Ministry. The consultant will submit a brief
progress report to the Ministry every two months.
The first year of the study will be devoted to field work in Seychelles. A final report
will be submitted at the end of this year. During the second year, the consultant would visit
Seychelles for two months to evaluate the continuation of the work carried out by local staff.
Total consultant time input is therefore estimated at 14 months.
The consultant should have at least ten years' experience in sea turtle research and
management, involving significant work with Green turtles. Also required is practical field
experience with an open mind for the realities of management of a traditionally exploited resource
to which access has been virtually unrestricted.



Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 4
SEYCHELLES
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
TURTLE PROTECTION PROGRAM
HAWKSBILL TURTLE MANAGEMENT PLAN
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. BACKGROUND
Sea turtle populations around the world are rapidly being depleted, to such an extent
that the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna
(CITES) recognizes all sea turtles as being edangered and consequently prohibits trade in these
species or in parts of or products made from them. The depletion of the turtle populations has
mainly been caused by human activities such as alterations in feeding and nesting areas, hunting
for domestic consumption and export, egg collection and accidental capture in fishing nets. Of
these, the international trade in turtle products has been the dominant cause of depletion of the
stocks around the world. In 1990 Seychelles completed an Environmental Management Plan
(EMPS). The EMPS includes a project which aims at the protection of sea turtles.
The sea turtle species that breed on the Seychelles islands are the Green (Chelonia
mydas) and Hawksbill (Eretmochelys imbricata) turtles. Both species have been important
economically. Green turtles are caught mainly for domestic consumption, while their shells are
usually discarded, being of limited value. Hawksbill turtles are caught for their shell, which is
worked by artisans and sold mainly to tourists. There has also been some direct export of shells
that are unprocessed. The flesh of the Hawksbill is not consumed as it is considered poisonous.
The eggs of both species are consumed, however. Extensive information exists on the status of
the Green and Hawksbill turtle in Seychelles in a study carried out during 981-84 by Dr. J.
Mortimer under the auspices of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN)
and the World Wildlife Fund. The study concluded that both species of turtles were severely
overexploited in Seychelles and would vanish from many of the islands if the exploitation
continued unabated. The study also concluded that on the inner, granitic islands, the Hawksbill
turtle had dwindled as an exploitable resource.
Several attempts have been made to reduce the harvesting of sea turtles to arrive at
a sustainable level of exploitation.  Legislation approved in 1925 remained the basis for
management of catches of sea turtles until 1987, when the law was strengthened for protection
purposes. However, enforcement was weak or nonexistent and some provisions in the law, such
as the population that only males can be taken, were impracticable. Many turtles (mainly Green
turtles) are caught by harpooning in the water, when it is impossible to distinguish male from
female. On the basis of deliberations during the Technical Conference on the EMPS in 1990 and
in view of the preparation of the GEF turtle protection program, the issuance of licenses to



Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 2 of 4
capture Hawksbill turtles was stopped in December 1990. Enforcement of the regulations,
however, leaves ample room for improvement. There are several reports of unlawful catches,
but no one has yet been prosecuted.
The sea turtle management program therefore consists of 2 parts which are closely
linked and which are expected to yield data relevant to both parts: a management plan for
Hawksbill turtles and a plan for of Green turtle management. Close coordination between the
two management plans is therefore required. The Terms of Reference given below concern the
Hawksbill turtle.
On strictly legal grounds, Seychelles is not violating CITES regulations when it
permits the sale of turtle products in the local market. But turtle products are almost exclusively
sold to tourists who then (often unknowingly) export these products illegally. The Seychelles
authorities recognize that the Hawksbill trade violates the spirit if not the letter of CITES, and
should consequently be stopped.
There is one provision in the CITES Convention however which could permit the
trade in animals or their products which would otherwise be prohibited. This provision stipulates
that the parties to CITES could consider export permission if a successful program of production
of the endangered species, which ensures the recovery of the wild population, can be established.
Some interest has been expressed in Seychelles in establishing a Hawksbill turtle farm. The
chances of succes are deemed slight, however, as such farming operations have been tried many
times in localities which are better suited to them than the Seychelles. None of these operations
has as yet succeeded in a technically and economically sound way.
Agreement has therefore been reached that consultants will carry out a feasibility
study on the establishment of a Hawksbill turtle ranch. If the study concludes that Hawksbill
farming is not feasible either on technical, economic, environmental, legal or other grounds, no
Hawksbill turtle farm will be established in Seychelles. If the study considers Hawksbill farming
feasible, Seychelles may decide to start farming, which would necessitate the securing of
additional funding for a pilot project. Provided it has been shown that the enterprise is successful
according to the criteria established under CITES, an application may be filed with CITES for
an exemption to the trade restrictions.
In the meantime, the turtle shell products trade, based on capture in the wild, is being
phased out. To this aim, the issuance of licenses to capture Hawksbill turtles was stopped in
December 1990. The phasing out of the trade in turtle shell products will be supported by the
GEF project which will provide the artisans with alternatives and compensation. The training
and development of artisans is the responsibility of the artisan development company CODEVAR
under the leadership of the Department of Industry (DOI).
An effort by the GEF program will also be launched on the demand side to inform
tourists of the consequences of smuggling turtle products, but also emphasizing the positive
aspects of saving sea turtles. A short film will be prepared to be shown to tourists coming to
Seychelles. Public information materials will also be prepared in English, French and Italian.
These efforts will be managed by the Division of Environment, Ministry of Environment,
Economic Planning, and External Relations. Training and education within the Conservation and



Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 3 of 4
National Parks Section of this Ministry and in schools, as well as the general public will also be
financed under the program. Training materials in Creole will be prepared for this purpose.
Objectives
The main objectives of the program to prepare a management plan for the Hawksbill
turtle are (i) to advise the Environment Division on measures to protect the wild Hawksbill turtle
population; and (ii) to enable Seychelles to comply with the stipulations of the CITES convention.
A Management Plan would be prepared to accomplish both objectives.
Scope of Work
The tasks to be carried out in preparation of the Management Plan are the following:
a.     Review of literature and data pertaining to Hawksbill turtle farming from
throughout the world, and concerning in particular the technical and
economic aspects. Where relevant, findings from Green turtle ranching will
be related to Hawksbill turtle ranching. During this period the validity of the
conclusions and recommendations of reports, such as "Implantation d'un
.levage de tortues carets aux Seychelles," by G. Lebrun, 1988, would be
assessed.
b.     Evaluate and advise on the feasibility of Hawksbill turtle ranching in
Seychelles from the standpoint of full costs and benefits, including (i)
technical feasibility; (ii) economic and financial feasibility, taking full
account of operating and maintenance expenditures; (iii) environmental
impacts, including implications for local and eventual international Hawksbill
turtle protection, as well as impact on the wild population; (iv) comparative
advantage of Seychelles for such a pilot project; and (v) international legal
implications.
C.     Advise on legislation concerning protection of Hawksbill turtles.
d.     Identify  in detail the revenue compensation  needs of artisans and
implementation arrangements for the compensation package, in conjunction
with other elements of the re-installation program.
e.     Recommend appropriate measures for effective organisation and management
of the enforcement of legislation on Hawksbill turtle protection.
f.     Advise on site-specific measures to be taken to protect Hawksbill turtles,
based on all available data including those on Hawksbill turtles collected
during the Green turtle stock assessment.
g.     Elaboration and design of public information campaigns and programs.



Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 4 of 4
h.     Formulation of a Management Plan for Hawksbill turtles in Seychelles.
Implementation
The work of the consultants will be supervised by the Environment Division, Ministry
of Environment, Economic Planning, and External Relations, and in particular by the
Conservation and National Parks Section of this Ministry. The Ministry will implement the
program in collaboration with the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA). The consultant will
submit a brief progress report to the Ministry every two months.
A total of three specialist-months is anticipated to be required for preparation of the
management plan. Subject to adjustment during the study, this time may be allocated as follows:
(i) review of literature and data, 0.5 months; (ii) preparation of "State of the Art" report on
Hawksbill turtle farming; 0.5 months; (iii) field work in Seychelles, 1.5 months; and (iv)
preparation of final management plan, 0.5 months.
The involvement of two consultants, one for the biological and management aspects
and one for the economic and financial aspects, is planned. The consultant(s) should have at least
ten years' experience in sea turtle research and management, of which a significant portion has
been devoted to Hawksbill turtle research. Also required is the ability to evaluate the full range
of parameters determining the potential feasibility of sea turtle farming.



Annex 5
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 1
Seychelles: GEZ Program
Biodiversity Conservation
Turtle Protection Program
Detailed Cost Estimates
Local     Foreign      Total     % Total
 ____________-- (SR 000) --------------
A.  GREEN TURTLE KANAGEMENT
PROGRAM
1.  Consulting Services for Stock
Assessment and Management Plan                        1306       1306
2.  Accommodation for Consultant                124                    124
3.  Domestic Travel                            208                    208
Subtotal                                 332        1306      1,638        0.31
B.  HAWISBILL TURTLE
KABAGENENT PROGRAM
1.  Turtle Ranching Study                       27         243        270
(3 sp-months expertise)
2.  Turtle Trade Compensation                    27        243        270
Study (3 sp-months expertise)
3.  Re-training of artisans                    243         168        411
4. Materials for re-training                               324        324
5.  Revenue Compensation Package              2400                   2400
Subtotal                                2697         978      3,675        0.69
Total Cost                            3,029      2,284       5,313        1.00



Annex 5
Appendix 4
Page 1 of 1
Saychelles: GEF Program
Biodiversity Conservation
Turtle Protection Program
Cost Estimates by Year
1993                        1994                       1995
Local    Forgn    Total    Local    Forgn    Total   Local   Forgn   Total
------------------------- (SR 000) --------------------------
A. GREEN TURTLE MANAGEMENT
PROGRAM
1.  Consulting Services for                         653      653 3               653      653
Stock Aassesment and
Management Plan
2.  Accommodation for                       62                 62       62                 62
Consultant
3.  Domestic Travel                       104                 104      104                104
Subtotal                            166      653       B19       166      653       819
B.  HAWXSBILL TURTLE
xANAGEXNET PROGRAM
1.  Turtle Ranching Study                  27       243      270
2.  Turtle Trado Compensation              14       121      135        14       121      135
Study
3.  Training of Artisans                   81        56      137        81        56      137       81      56     137
4.  Materials for re-training                       108      108                 108      108              108     :08
5.  Rovenue Compensation
Package                               900                900       800                800     700              '30
Subtotal                           1022      528    1,550       895       285    1,180      781     164      945
Total Cost                      1,188    1,131   2,369    1,061          938    1,999      781     164      945



Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
SEYCHELLES
ABATEMENT OF MARINE POLLUTION
RECEPTION AND DISPOSAL OF MARINE WASTES
AT THE PORT OF VICTORIA
A. SEA-BASED POLLUTION
Because of its remote location, Seychelles relies largely on maritime transport for
imports. In addition, the rapid growth of tuna processing has been accompanied by a sharp
increase in shipping activity at the country's main port, Victoria, on Mahe island.
This increased activity has affected the marine coastal areas of Seychelles,
especially in Victoria harbor and the surrounding waters. The commercial fishing fleet generates
some 1 million liters of waste petroleum oil annually, which is dumped at sea. Including garbage
and fish wastes, about 14,000 tons of waste is produced each year by the commercial fishing
fleet.
There is a need for immediate action to assess and monitor the coastal
environment and resources and to determine present levels and sources of pollution. The most
urgent need is to provide adequate facilities at the Port of Victoria for the reception, storage, and
recycling or disposal of waste from commercial vessels.
B. THE PORT OF VICTORIA
The port of Victoria, located on the east coast of Mahe, is the only deepwater
facility in the islands. The commercial port handles bulk oil and cement imports, general cargo
and containers, and all vessels requiring bunkers. The adjacent fishing port with recent additions
handles all fishing vessels, inter-island schooner traffic, and frozen fish exports. The fishing port
is separated from the commercial port by an enclosed basin used for mooring yachts (see also
Map No. 23522). The only ship repair facility is located near this basin.
Traffic volumes in 1991, mainly imports, amounted to about 200,000 tons, of
which 54% was crude oil. The major imported goods are foodstuffs, oil, transport equipment,
and livestock, whereas major exported products include fish, copra, and cinnamon. The location
of Seychelles, on or near the main Indian Ocean trade routes, benefits Victoria which is used as
a port of call en route between the Far East and Southern Africa and between Europe and
Mauritius/Reunion.
Port operations are managed by the Ports and Marine Services Division (PMSD),
Ministry of Tourism and Transport, and in particular by the Harbourmaster's Office. PMSD is
responsible for accounting for all charges, dues, and fees derived from water-related port
operations, except for shore handling of goods and fuel deliveries at the fishing port.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
C. ABATEMENT OF MARINE POLLUTION: THE MARPOL CONVENTION
In the early 1970s, the International Maritime Organization (IMO), a United
Nations Agency, had already taken action to deal with pollution of the seas. However, further
development of modern industrial practices made it clear that action on a much broader scale was
required. The result was the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships,
usually known as the MARPOL Convention, adopted in 1973. The Convention has two Protocols
dealing respectively with Reports on Incidents involving Harmful Substances, and with
Arbitration. It also has five Annexes which spell out the regulations for preventing various forms
of marine pollution:
Annex I:     pollution by oil
Annex II:    pollution by noxious liquid substances carried in bulk
Annex III:    pollution by harmful substances carried in packages, portable
tanks, freight containers, road or rail tank wagons, and so on
Annex IV:    pollution by sewage from ships; and
Annex V:    pollution by garbage from ships.
Five years later, at the time of the International Conference on Tanker Safety and
Pollution Prevention held in February 1978, problems in the ratification by countries of the
MARPOL convention were discussed. Countries were reluctant to ratify the Convention mainly
because of Annex II (pollution by noxious liquid substances carried in bulk). A Protocol
approved in 1978 stated that if countries agreed to adopt Annex I, they could have a delay of
three years in adopting Annex II. The Protocol also requires that segregated ballast tanks be
protectively located; that is, they must be positioned in such a way that they will help protect the
cargo tanks in the event of a collision or grounding. Another innovation concerned a new
approach to crude oil washing, which had recently been developed by the oil industry. Storage
tanks would henceforth be washed not with water but with crude oil itself, eliminating the need
for discharge of oily water. Crude oil washing under the Protocol is an alternative to segregated
ballast tanks for existing tankers, and is required on new tankers. The 1978 Protocol also
introduced stricter regulations for the survey and certification of ships. In effect, the 1978
Protocol absorbed the parent 1973 Convention. The Convention of 1973 and the Protocol of
1978 are thus referred to together as "MARPOL 73/78."
Two amendments were introduced in 1984 and 1985, both designed to make
implementation easier and more effective. The 1985 amendment, mainly concerning Annex II,
incorporates further technological advances and is intended to simplify its adoption and
implementation. The amendments make the International Bulk Chemical Code mandatory, and
also reduce the need for port reception facilities for chemical wastes.
Annexes I, II, and V are currently in force. The provisions of Annex III,
although not yet in force, are now being implemented through the International Maritime
Dangerous Goods Code (IMDG Code). Annex IV, covering sewage from ships, is not yet in
force. Under the terms of the MARPOL provisions, ships are no longer able to discharge their
wastes at sea, as they have traditionally done. This implies that ports of call must be able to
receive the wastes and to dispose of them in an environmentally sound manner.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
D. GEF-SUPPORTED ACTIVITIES
The GEF program would support a study in two phases of waste reception
facilities at the Port of Victoria. Terms of Reference for this study are included as Appendix 1
to this Annex. In the first phase, the scope and nature of the problem will be analyzed, technical
features of the facilities will be described up to the level of preliminary designs, and the
institutional and financial implications for the Port of Victoria will be defined. Map No. 23522
shows the currently proposed locations of waste reception facilities, which would be subject to
adjustment as the first phase of the study is carried out. Also to be covered in this phase are the
institutional arrangements for construction and management of the facilities, cost recovery
through port charges, and the roles and responsibilities of PMSD.
An important feature of the first phase of the study will be recommendations on
adequate collection and disposal of the waste deposited at the port. In this regard, the study will
establish linkages with ongoing efforts addressed specifically to this issue. The current sanitary
landfills in use at La Retraite and on the east coast have nearly reached the capacity that can be
sustained without harmful environmental impacts. A study recently completed by the French firm
ANRED has recommended the construction of a composting and incineration plant for more
efficient disposal of waste. A complementary study now underway will focus more attention on
the economic and financial implications of such a solution. Recommendations of the GEF port
waste reception study will be based in part on the findings of these and other studies, so that the
solutions proposed are fully consistent with island-wide approaches to solid waste collection and
disposal.
The second phase of the study will focus largely on preparation of detailed
engineering designs for the proposed facilities. Actual construction of the facilities would be the
subject of a separate financing request in a subsequent GEF tranche by the Seychelles
Government.



Annex 6
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 5
SEYCHELLES
ABATEMENT OF MARINE POLLUTION
WASTE RECEPTION FACILITIES (MARPOL) STUDY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background Information
Seychelles is an archipelago of some 115 islands (70,000 inhabitants), located in the
Western Indian Ocean with a total area of about 445 km2. The archipelago is located to the
northeast of Madagascar and includes three major islands: Mahe, Praslin and La Digue. Because
of its remote location, Seychelles relies largely on maritime transport for imports. Moreover,
the rapid development of an industrial tuna fishery has resulted in a sharp increase in shipping
activities at the country's main port of Victoria (Mah6 island). The marine coastal areas of
Seychelles have been affected to some extent by the activities of the maritime sector, particularly
in Victoria harbor and surrounding coastal waters. Some 14,000 tons of waste is produced per
year by the commercial fishing fleet, consisting mainly of garbage, fish wastes and oil.
Additionally, brine contaminated by fish waste and blood is pumped into Seychelles' waters
regularly by commercial fishing vessels during the cleaning of holds or vats. Waste petroleum-oil
from the commercial fishing fleet, amounting to some one million liters, is dumped at sea
annually because adequate facilities are not yet available at Port Victoria for the reception,
storage, and disposal of waste matter from commercial vessels.
Another major cause of concern is a risk of pollution to the marine environment from
the activities of commercial shipping.  The Western Indian Ocean is a major crude oil
transportation artery, and the risk of an oil spill is high. An estimated 450 million tons of oil is
transported from the Middle East around Southern Africa and the Cape of Good Hope each year.
An additional 22 million tons transit the region en route to Eastern and Southern Africa. This
transport involves approximately 1,200 very large crude carrier (200,000 tons) voyages and 4,000
medium size tanker (average 60,000 tons) voyages each year in the Western Indian Ocean (UNEP
1982). With the known traffic pattern and the heavy volume of oil in transit through the region,
accidental large spills or operational spills resulting in slicks and tar balls must be expected.
There is a need for immediate action to assess and monitor the coastal environment
and resources and determine present levels and sources of pollution and degradation.
Additionally, it is essential to set and monitor coastal water quality standards, especially at public
beaches; to set and enforce standards for marine discharges by ships; and to implement the local
and regional oil spill contingency plan that has recently been prepared. It is also imperative that
the discharge of wastes in Victoria harbor and other coastal waters be reduced by 1995. The
most urgent action is to provide adequate facilities at the Port of Victoria for the reception,
storage, recycling or disposal of waste from commercial vessels.



Annex 6
Appendix I
Page 2 of 5
The Port of Victoria
The port of Victoria, located on the east coast of the island of Mah6, is the principal
port and only deepwater facility in the archipelago. The commercial port handles bulk oil and
cement imports, general cargo and containers and all vessels requiring bunkers. The old "long
pier" with recent additions handles all fishing vessels, inter-island schooner traffic and frozen fish
exports and is separated from the commercial port facilities by an enclosed basin used for
mooring yachts. The only ship repair facility - a marine railway - is located adjacent to this
basin.
The traffic in 1991 was about 220 000 tons (mainly importation), of which 54% was
crude oil. The major imported goods are foodstuffs, oil, transport equipment, and livestock,
whereas major exported products are fish, copra and cinnamon. The location of Seychelles, near
the main trade routes, benefits Victoria which is used as a port of call en route between the Far
East and Southern Africa and between Europe and Reunion-Mauritius.
The Marpol Convention
Attempts are being made to control the pollution of the oceans and coastal waters.
One major step toward this objective has been the introduction of the MARPOL 73/78
Convention through the International Maritime Organization (IMO), an agency of the United
Nations. The convention is aimed at preventing vessels of all kinds from discharging wastes at
sea which are considered to be pollutants. The MARPOL Convention currently has five annexes
covering various categories of pollutants. These are:
Annex I       :      Oil (dirty ballast water; oily tank washing; oily bilge water;
slops; sludge; fuel residues; waste oil).
Annex II      :      Noxious liquid substances (chemicals) in bulk - tank cleaning
after discharge of cargo.
Annex III     :      Harmful substances carried in packaged form, in freight
containers, portable tanks or similar.
Annex IV      :      Sewage.
Annex V       :      Garbage; trash; foodstuffs; oily rags; plastics; packing
materials and dunnage.
Annexes I, II and V are currently in force. The provisions of Annex III, although
not yet in force, are currently being implemented through the International Maritime Dangerous
Goods Code (IMDG Code). Annex IV, covering sewage from ships, is not yet in force. Under
these conventions, ships are no longer able to discharge their wastes at sea, as they have
traditionally done in the past. This implies that ports of call must be able to receive the wastes
and to dispose of them in an environmentally sound manner.



Annex 6
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 5
Objectives of the Study
The objective of the study is to evaluate and implement the reception and disposal
facilities needed to comply with the MARPOL requirements, and necessary to control pollution
from ships. Consultancies are required to (a) assess institutional, manpower, and equipment
requirements for effective enforcement of MARPOL stipulations, based on updated estimates of
waste generated on board ships and the likely quantities to be discharged; and (b) prepare
feasibility studies, detailed designs, equipment and implementation schedules with cost estimates
for construction of reception and disposal facilities.
Scope of Services
The study will concentrate on the following topics: (a) identification of the types and
quantities of waste generated by ships; (b) environmentally safe and efficient disposal elsewhere
on the island of waste accumulated in the facilities; (c) financing and cost recovery aspects; (d)
manpower and management aspects; and (e) siting of the facilities at the port in relation to
pumping and transfer requirements, and the like. The facilities proposed would be evaluated up
to the preliminary design (Phase IA) and subsequently to the detailed design (Phase 1B) stage.
Methodology
The study will consist of two phases:
Phase I A (5.5-month consultancy) would be conducted to:
(a)    analyze present and future shipping volumes (to the year 2005) in order to
ascertain quantities of wastes generated on board ships visiting the Port of
Victoria and the likely quantities available for discharge;
(b)    evaluate the reception facilities, including suitable methods of disposal
required to dispose of oil, oil residues, sewage, brine and other wastes
produced by shipping and fishing fleets;
(c)    assess modifications which may be required to the national commercial and
fishing fleets in order to comply with international standards and
requirements;
(d)    advise on manpower and equipment for pollution inspectors and ship
surveyors that will be required to effectively enforce international conven-
tions and national legislation dealing with ship-generated pollution;
In addition to the analysis of shipping volumes described above,
Phase 1A will contain a more specialized analysis of present and future fishing fleet
volumes. This analysis will:



Annex 6
Appendix 1
Page 4 of 5
(e)    analyze present and future fishing fleet volumes to the year 2005 in order to
determine quantities of wastes generated by ships visiting the Port of Victoria
and the likely quantities available for discharge;
(f)    evaluate the existing reception facilities and disposal methods employed by
commercial fishing fleets; and
(g)    assess the impact on the marine environment resulting from dumping of fish
waste and recommend improvements in re-use or disposal techniques,
including the viability of alternative methods.
Following the completion of Phase IA, the Government will review
the conclusions of the study and take a decision on whether or not the solutions
proposed are appropriate and justified.
Phase 1 B (three-month consultancy) will be carried out when results from Phase IA
are available and endorsed by the relevant authorities. This phase would entail the
preparation of detailed engineering designs and bid documents, equipment and
implementation schedules, and detailed cost estimates for the required facilities.
Implementation
The managing government unit will be the Ministry of Tourism and Transport, in
collaboration with the Environment Division (Ministry of Environment, Economic Planning, and
External Relations), Public Utilities Corporation, and Seychelles Petroleum Company. The
management of this study will be the responsibility of the Ports and Marine Services Division
(PMSD), including the Harbourmaster's Office, of the Ministry of Tourism and Transport.
Staff Requirements
The study will require for Phase IA: (i) a shipping and fishing industries specialist,
especially for point (a); (ii) a port engineer and environmental specialist, mainly for points (b),
(d), and (e); and (iii) an economist, particularly for point (c). For Phase lB the requirements
are: (i) a fishing industries specialist, concentrating on points (a) and (b); and (ii) an
environmental specialist and port engineer, mainly for points (c) and (d).  It is strongly
recommended that the consultants take into account the results of related studies, such as: (i) a
general study on MARPOL entitled "The Economic Implications and Other Issues in Providing
Reception Facilities for Ship Wastes in Sub-Saharan African Ports", World Bank Technical
Paper, June 1991); and (ii) local studies including that on solid waste disposal carried out by
ANRED. Furthermore, consultants are invited to review (and adapt) the approaches used by
ports in northern Europe, and determine what lessons can and should be learned about reception
facilities from the recently completed study in the Caribbean.



Annex 6
Appendix 1
Page 5 of 5
Duration of the Study and Reporting Requirements
The study will be carried out over four months, about half of which will be spent on
field visits. A preliminary report will be submitted at the end of Phase 1A. The final report
including Phase 1B will contain a detailed proposal and cost estimate for the reception works, to
be carried out in a subsequent Phase 2.



Annex 6
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 1
Seychellesa GEP Program
Abatement of Marine Pollution
Waste Reception Facilities (HARPOL) Study
Detailed Cost Estimates
Local     Foreign     Total      % Total
---------- (SR 000) ---------
A. PHASE 1A
Consulting Services
(5.5 up-months)                      50         445        495
Subtotal                           50         445        495        0.65
B. PHASE 1B
Consulting Services
(3 up-months)                        27         243        270
Subtotal                           27         243        270        0.35
Total Cost                         77        688        765        1.00



Annox 6
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 1
Seychelles3 GEF Program
Abatement of Marine Pollution
Waote Reception Facilities (MARPOL) Study
Cost Estimates by Year
1993                   1994                    1995
Local  Forgn   Total  Local  Forgn   Total  Local  Forgn  Total
------------------------ (SR 000) --------------------------
A. PHASE IA
Consulting Services
(5.5 up-months)                    50    445     495
Subtotal                         50    445    495
B.  PHASE 1B
Consulting Services
(3 ap-months)                     27    243      270
Subtotal                         27    243    270
Total Cost                      77    688    765



Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
KEY INDICATORS
Progress toward project objectives as measured by key performance indicators
is an integral part of progress reporting, and one for which the implementing agencies and
MEPER will be accountable.
Performance indicators will be represented both as benchmarks and as interim
measures of progress. The actual progress achieved will be compared with two benchmark
indicators: the ultimate objectives initially set, and the extent to which these objectives should
have been met in the month and year in question.
It is recognized that for activities expected to significantly improve the current
data base, such as the turtle stock assessments, not all indicators will have been defined at the
start but will emerge during the course of implementation.
Below, grouped by category, are the proposed core indicators to be maintained
throughout the implementation period, and to be supplemented by others identified later. It is
expected that quantitative information for Section C will not be substantial at the beginning, but
would be supplied largely through special evaluations.
A.    Framework for Implementation
1.    Financial covenants
2.     Undertakings of Government and of
implementing agencies
3.    Legislation
4.    Budget requests and allocations
B.    Program and Sub-Program Indicators
1.    Aldabra
*     procurement progress and, % completion,
research facility
*      % completion goat control program
*     recruitment scientific and managerial
staff
*      % completion long term management plan
2.    Biodiversity Conservation
*      % completion turtle ranching study
*      % completion turtle trade compensation study
*     No. artisans reinstalled
*     training completed
*      % completion stock assessment



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
3.    Marine Pollution
*     % completion waste reception facilities study
C.    Indicators of Impact
1.    Number and type of persons benefiting
2.    Biodiversity trends (numbers of individuals)



IBRD 235a
46-15'                                                4"-20'                                                 46-25'                                                4.0
SEYCHELLES
GEF INVESTMENT: BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION
ALDABRA ISLAND
'.  I A N                   O C E A N
PeIymeie    --                                ie  Malobar           or       Middle  Island
F.,,. d-  N-
5e V-R
RSETATAIONS                                                                                                                                                             Cad-_
' -.I               Grande  Terre
L    i    c  c  n
-           7~~or
t >          F,                                                                                                       -                                                    S o Ut h  /island  CT ndSd
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
Terre           or                                                          RESEARCH STATION 
*e   OTHER BUILDINGS                            KENYA
------ TRACKS OR FOOTPATHS
MANGROVE SWAMPS
CHANNELS
99W                                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEYCHELLES
-9.3J                                                                                                                         SHALLOW AREAS WITHINILAGOON      P-3C:. TANZAMA                                 W-
-  -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                 4*  CC
o     I     2     3     A      5     5     7     IaClOARS                           Ak.__e         &P,.
I N   D   I A   N            O   C  E  A   N                                                      Th,,    b- pp.2 d , 2 TW   3.A      _* AMS                                     coos          A1  
mm.a.e ,.odm   .d .kd* b' te. m-im  - c/ Th. 10MM                        C~O5AR        I-
A"d G-,e T. t =    _W.4ee med ed . 16-~de A.o. e isl
d15'                                                  461-20                                                 461525'      AODAAAnCA
MARCH 192






IBRD 23522
S  E Y  C  H  E L L E S
GEF INVESTMENT:
ABATEMENT OF MARINE POLLUTION
VICTORIA FISHING AND COMMERCIAL PORTS
PROPOSED LOCATION OF PROJECT
o           COMPONENTS
Z3 F I      PORT FACILIES
ROADS
DREDGED AREAS
7   CORAL REEFS
_  TUNIGISOBATHS IN METERS
to~~~~~~~~ NEW 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A S I N 6 o40x
HARBOUR  UAY                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mETERS
\ I EEESHdRNESOL>TIO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n                                                                     /n\        TPS  os  ma ha ben pepnedp.by ^h Wonlhd Hank,rtp
\\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 'ASEEIhESOWSOt                                                                                                                                               E-WSm XBa W\>    Ut@dtyhcVctneduhom2
\\  X   tX   SOONER  _-I-a  y F                                                                                                 .- Tf Wh Wonid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~->                                                                              S      Y f La)cXL  iow  ToA;
/ //J<3( H,DCULtS,ING 1> Tl<NKS                                                                                                                    5o^: C DOidG-p Th. d-- ft.Ola  .. d -d tbh
t           \                                /                                                                       S L D v#AETH BRINEiSANIA                         -d- O hTCHELLE,              G=e dh
- h. wd f Th:W.,sd 9.. G-,o -
\0RAGE                                                                                             /Lq-~ - th.  Iq   *d ::;:ya
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~STE ERIN                                                                                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ay e-d-. ora a nan t cf -okbon ac
____ _ > / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ | Q osi , Ca sew ( m Shoub~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Boon,~Coae, 4
FEBRUAR  199
?-m     0    o   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kN,'                              Son1'     osn0LO.'
HARBOUR- ' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~KEn                                                                               - H
A- -              '41          ooe's
Olb  OSOL D -1                  ~~~~~~TANZANIA'  'SEYCHELLES         CagsA,a
MtkflGCSCiR              nq'gaI
FEBRUARY 1992









THE GEF ADMINISTRATOR
c/o WORLD BANK
1818 H STREET, NW
WASHINGTON, DC 20433 USA
WORLD BANK
THE GEF COORDINATOR
ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT
1818 H STREET, NW
WASHINGTON, DC 20433 USA
UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
GEF/TECHNICAL ADVISORY DIVISION
UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
ONE UNITED NATIONS PLAZA
NEW YORK, NY 10017 USA
'14
UNITED NATIONS
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME
GEF/UNEP
c/o CLEARING HOUSE
P.O. BOX 30552
NAIROBI, KENYA



