Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO GET GRANT NUMBER 28627 SEY
Dutch Grant Agreement
(Environment and Transport Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Dutch Funds
Provided by The
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated May 16, 1994
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO GET GRANT NUMBER 28627 SEY
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 16, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES (the Grantee) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of the Dutch Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by the Minister 
for Development Cooperation of the Netherlands (the Minister).
WHEREAS the Grantee has requested the assistance of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Minister in the financing of a 
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to support environmental programs 
in resource management, biodiversity conservation and marine pollution control, assist 
with implementation of the EMPS, and improve the basis for sustained tourism growth, 
while preserving or restoring environmentally sensitive areas as described in Schedule 
2 to the GET Grant Agreement (the Project);
WHEREAS the Bank, acting as Trustee of the Global Environment Trust Fund, has 
given a grant (the GET Grant) to the Grantee for this purpose on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Global Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement (the GET 
Grant Agreement) between the Grantee and the Bank dated January 15, 1993;
WHEREAS the Bank has granted a Loan for this purpose on the terms and conditions 
set forth in a Loan Agreement (Loan Number 3551 SEY), dated January 15, 1993, between 
Page  2
the Grantee and the Bank (the Loan Agreement);
WHEREAS the Minister wishes to make available to the Grantee a grant in the 
total amount of eight hundred and seventy-nine thousand forty-four Dutch Guilders 
(Dfls.879,044) (the Dutch Grant) to assist the Grantee in carrying out the Program on 
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by an Administration Agreement, dated December 11, 1986, and by an 
Administrative Arrangement on cofinancing, dated May 16, 1984, between the Minister, 
the Bank and the International Development Association (the Arrangements), the 
Minister has requested the Bank, and the Bank has agreed, to administer, inter alia, 
the Dutch Grant in accordance with the provisions of the Arrangements; and
WHEREAS the Grantee acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to the 
Grantee under this agreement (the Dutch Grant Agreement) shall be considered part of 
the bilateral development aid extended by the Government of the Netherlands to the 
Grantee;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the 
"General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated 
January 1, 1985, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth 
herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof:
(a)
the term "Bank," whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the 
Dutch Grant pursuant to the provisions of the Arrangements;
(b)
the term "Loan Agreement," whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Loan," whenever used in the General Conditions, means the Dutch 
Grant hereunder;
(d)
the term "Loan Account," whenever used in the General Conditions or in 
this Agreement, means the Account opened by the Bank in its books in the name of the 
Recipient to which the amount of the Dutch Grant is credited;
(e)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 
4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.10, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 of the General 
Conditions are deleted; and
(f)
in Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term "Bank" 
shall include also the Bank acting in its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, the following additional term has 
the following meaning:
"Dutch Guilders" and "Dfls" mean the currency of the Netherlands.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Grantee, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in a total amount of eight 
hundred and seventy-nine thousand forty-four Dutch Guilders (Dfls.879,044).
Section 2.02. The proceeds of the Dutch Grant may be withdrawn from the Dutch 
Grant Account for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of the goods and services required for the 
Project.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, contracts 
for goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the GET Grant Agreement, 
which is hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if 
Page  3
it were fully set forth herein. It is understood that references to the "Trustee" and 
the "Grant Account" in said Schedule are references to the Bank acting as 
Administrator of the Dutch Grant and the Dutch Grant Account, respectively.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the 
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in paragraph (a) above, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Dutch Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any way restricting 
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Administrator under this 
Agreement, by notice to the Grantee, cancel such amount of the Dutch Grant as, in the 
Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Dutch 
Grant.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section, the Dutch Grant shall 
finance the following activities: (i) the preservation and protection of swamps; (ii) 
the maintenance of inaccessible, vulnerable coastal areas and mangrove forests; (iii) 
the preservation of coral reefs; (iv) the preservation, monitoring and rehabilitation 
of sea birds; (v) the preservation and monitoring of threatened animal species; and 
(vi) training, environmental education and people's participation.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Grantee 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Sections 3.01, 
3.02, 3.03 and 3.04 of the GET Grant Agreement are hereby incorporated into this 
Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein. It is 
understood that all references to the "Trustee" in said Sections are references to the 
Bank acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant under this Agreement, and all 
references to the Grant and the Grant Account are references to the Dutch Grant and 
the Dutch Grant Account, respectively.
ARTICLE IV
Representation; Transfer of
Rights and Obligations
Section 4.01. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Planning and Environment of the 
Grantee shall be the representative of the Grantee for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Grantee:
Minister of Foreign Affairs, Planning
  and Environment
P.O. Box 656
Mont Fleuri
Republic of Seychelles
Telefax: Telex:
248224845
9972260 MINAE SZ
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Page  4
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Section 4.03. In accordance with the Arrangements, the rights and obligations of 
the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to the Minister. The Grantee 
accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Grantee to that 
effect, the Minister shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such notice, be 
substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as 
if the Minister had been an original party to this Agreement, without any further 
action or formality being required on the part of any party and, from such date, the 
Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written and shall continue in effect until the Dutch Grant has been fully disbursed 
and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES
By /s/ Marc Marengo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
   as Administrator of Dutch Funds
   Provided by The
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
