Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                        GET GRANT NUMBER 28627 SEY
                   GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
                          GRANT AGREEMENT
                (Environment and Transport Project)
                              between
                      REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
            acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
                            Trust Fund
                      Dated January 15, 1993
                                         GET GRANT NUMBER 28627 SEY
           GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 15, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF
SEYCHELLES (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee of grant funds provided by
Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the Global
Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee).
      WHEREAS: (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank) pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14,
1991, of the Executive Directors of the Bank (the Resolution),
established the Global Environment Facility consisting of the GET,
Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust
Fund, to assist in the protection of the global environment and
promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic
development;
      (B)   certain members of the Bank (the Participants) have
provided resources by way of grants into the GET and the
Participants have requested and the Bank has agreed, to administer
such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes of, and in accordance
with, provisions of the Resolution;
Page  2
      (C)   the Recipient has prepared an environmental action plan
for the management and preservation of its environment (hereinafter
referred to as the Environmental Management Plan of Seychelles or
EMPS);
      (D)   the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested assistance from the resources of the
GET to support the EMPS by financing Part B of the Project, and the
Trustee has determined that such assistance would be in accordance
with the provisions of the Resolution;
      (E)   the Recipient has also requested the Bank to provide
additional financing towards the financing of the Project, and the
Bank has agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to four million five hundred thousand dollars
($4,500,000); and
      (F)   the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph
(b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement:
          (i)  Article I;
         (ii)   Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9),
                (10), (11), (15), (18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
        (iii)   Section 3.01;
         (iv)   Section 4.01 and the first sentence of
                Section 4.09;
          (v)   Article V;
         (vi)   Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and
                (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
        (vii)   Section 8.01 (b);
       (viii)   Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
                9.08 and 9.09;
         (ix)   Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
          (x)   Article XI; and
         (xi)   Sections 12.03 and 12.04.
      (b)  The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
           (i)  a new paragraph shall be added to the end of
                Section 2.01 to read as follows: "the term "Special
                Drawing Rights" and the symbol "SDR" mean special
                drawing rights as valued by the International
                Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of
                Agreement";
          (ii)  the term "Bank", wherever used in the General
                Conditions, other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and
                6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in
                Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that
Page  3
                in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include
                the International Bank for Reconstruction and
                Development acting in its own capacity;
         (iii)  the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General
                Conditions, means the Recipient;
          (iv)  the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the
                General Conditions, means this Agreement;
           (v)  the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the
                General Conditions, means the GET Grant; and
          (vi)  the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the
                General Conditions, means the GET Grant Account.
      Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)  "CODEVAR" means the Recipient's Compagnie pour le
developpement de l'Artisanat Limited;
      (b)  "DOE" means the Division of Environment of MEPER;
      (c)  "DOI" means the Recipient's Department of Industry;
      (d)  "DOI/CODEVAR Memorandum of Understanding" means the
Memorandum of Understanding to be prepared and agreed upon by MEPER,
DOI and CODEVAR, pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the DOI/CODEVAR Memorandum of Understanding.
      (e)  "MEPER" means the Recipient's Ministry of Environment,
Economic Planning and External Relations;
      (f)  "PMSD" means the Ports and Marine Services Division of
the Recipient's Ministry of Tourism and Transport;
      (g)  "PMSD Memorandum of Understanding" means the Memorandum
of Understanding to be prepared and agreed upon by MEPER and PMSD,
pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the PMSD Memorandum of Understanding.
      (h)  "SIF" means the Seychelles Island Foundation; and
      (i)  "SIF Memorandum of Understanding" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Recipient and SIF, pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the SIF Memorandum of
Understanding.
                            ARTICLE II
                           The GET Grant
      Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the
Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, the GET Grant in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 1,300,000).
      Section 2.02. The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn
from the GET Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
Page  4
      (b)  The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or
such later date as the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall
promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts B.1, B.2 and B.3
of the Project, through SIF/MEPER, DOE/DOI/CODEVAR and PMSD,
respectively, with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out Part B of the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the SIF Memorandum of Understanding,
the DOI/CODEVAR Memorandum of Understanding and the PMSD Memorandum
of Understanding.
      Section 3.02. (a) The Recipient shall conclude the SIF
Memorandum of Understanding, acceptable to the Trustee, with SIF for
the execution and management of Part B.1 of the Project.
      (b)  The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the SIF
Memorandum of Understanding in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Recipient and the Trustee, and to accomplish the
purposes of the GET Grant and, except as the Trustee shall otherwise
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
SIF Memorandum of Understanding, or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the GET Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause:
      (a)  MEPER, DOI and CODEVAR to prepare and agree upon a
Memorandum of Understanding, giving details of the implementation
arrangements for the implementation of the turtle trade compensation
study, and the compensation and retraining program for turtle shell
artisans, under Part B.2 of the Project;
      (b)  MEPER and PMSD to prepare and agree upon a Memorandum of
Understanding, giving details of the implementation arrangements for
the implementation of Part B.3 of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect Part B of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out Part B of
Page  5
the Project.
      (b)  The Recipient shall:
           (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for
                the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited,
                in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                consistently applied, by independent auditors
                acceptable to the Trustee;
          (ii)  furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end of
                each such year, the report of such audit by said
                auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Trustee such other information con-
                cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                thereof as the Trustee shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
      (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the GET Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Recipient shall:
           (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Trustee
                has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                in which the last withdrawal from the GET Grant
                Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                evidencing such expenditures;
         (iii)  enable the Trustee's representatives to examine
                such records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
                in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
                this Section and that the report of such audit
                contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                during such fiscal year, together with the
                procedures and internal controls involved in their
                preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                      Remedies of the Trustee
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)  SIF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the SIF Memorandum of Understanding.
      (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that SIF will be able to perform its
obligations under the SIF Memorandum of Understanding.
      (c)  The Seychelles Islands Foundation Decree (Decree No. 6
of 1979) shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SIF
to perform any of its obligations under the SIF Memorandum of
Understanding.
      (d)  The Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction
Page  6
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of SIF or for the suspension of its operations.
      (e)  CODEVAR shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the DOI/CODEVAR Memorandum of Understanding.
      (f)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that CODEVAR will be able to perform
its obligations under the DOI/CODEVAR Memorandum of Understanding.
      (g)  The Memorandum and Articles of Association of CODEVAR
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CODEVAR to
perform any of its obligations under the DOI/CODEVAR Memorandum of
Understanding.
      (h)  The Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of CODEVAR or for the suspension of its operations.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effectiveness; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as a condition
to the effectiveness of the GET Grant Agreement, namely, that the
National Coordinator referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 has
been designated.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until
the GET Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this
Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
                           ARTICLE VII
            Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Economic Planning of the
Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Recipient:
           Minister of Environment, Economic Planning
             and External Relations
           P.O. Box 656
           Mont Fleuri
           Republic of Seychelles
           Telefax:                 Telex:
                248 24845             997 2260 MINAE SZ
      For the Trustee:
           International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:           Telex:
Page  7
                INTBAFRAD              197688 (TRT),
                Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA),
                                        64145 (WUI) or
                                        82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES
                By /s/ Marc Marengo
                                         Authorized Representative
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as
                  Trustee of the Global Environment Trust Fund
                By /s/ Francisco Aquirre-Sacasa
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
            Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant, the allocation of the
amounts of the GET Grant to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                          GET Grant Allocated        % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works under             75,000        100% of foreign
    Part B.1 of the                             expenditures and
    Project                                     75% of local
                                                expenditures
(2) Equipment, materials                        100%
    and supplies:
    (a)  under Part B.1
         of the Project           75,000
    (b)  under Part B.2
         of the Project           75,000
(3) Consultants' services:                      100%
    (a)  under Part B.1
         of the Project          275,000
    (b)  under Part B.2
         of the Project          275,000
    (c)  under Part B.3
         of the Project           75,000
(4) Artisan training and         225,000        100% of foreign
    reinstallation under                        expenditures and
    Part B.2 of the                             50% of local
Page  8
    Project                                     expenditures
(5) Operating costs:                            100%
    (a)  under Part B.1
         of the Project           40,000
    (b)  under Part B.2
         of the Project           40,000
    (c)  under Part B.3
         of the Project           20,000
(6) Unallocated                  125,000
                               _________
         TOTAL                 1,300,000
                               =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs"
means the incremental operating costs incurred under the Project on
account of salaries and allowances of local contractual staff,
maintenance of vehicles and fuel, and office rent, utilities and
supplies.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
      (b)  expenditures under categories (1), (2)(a), (3)(a) and
(5)(a) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless (i) the
SIF Memorandum of Understanding has been duly prepared and agreed
upon, and a copy thereof transmitted to the Trustee, and (ii) a
full-time Executive Director has been designated on behalf of SIF to
manage day-to-day operations under Part B.1 of the Project;
      (c)  expenditures under categories (2)(b), (3)(b), (4) and
(5)(b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the
DOI/CODEVAR Memorandum of Understanding has been prepared and agreed
upon, and a copy thereof transmitted to the Trustee; and
      (d)  expenditures under categories (3)(c) and (5)(c) of the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the PMSD Memorandum of
Understanding has been prepared and agreed upon, and a copy thereof
transmitted to the Trustee.
4.    If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any
payment made from the GET Grant Account was used for any expenditure
not consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient
shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee
for deposit into the GET Grant Account, an amount equal to the
amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to support environmental
programs in resource management, biodiversity conservation and
marine pollution control, assist with implementation of the EMPS,
and improve the basis for sustained tourism growth, while preserving
or restoring environmentally sensitive areas.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Environment (Resource Management Program)
1.    Praslin Water Supply Phase II
Page  9
      o    construction of two additional intakes near existing
           intakes at Fond B'Offay and Nouvelle Decouverte.
2.    Water Resources/Water Management Studies of Outer Islands
      o    study of water resources and water management
           requirements of seven outer islands: Alphonse,
           Assomption, Astove, Coetivy, Desroches, Farquhar and
           Providence.
      o    implementation of water resources monitoring program.
3.    Preparation of Marine Resources Management Plans
      o    preparation and implementation of plans for the
           management of marine fisheries resources, especially
           tuna, reef fishes, demersal fishes and lobsters.
      o    preparation of education and information materials.
4.    DOE Organizational Study
      o    study of the organizational structure, including
           proposals for an improved structure for DOE, an
           assessment of coordination and monitoring requirements
           for environmental programs, and staffing and training
           proposals.
Part B:    Environment (Biodiversity Conservation and Marine
           Pollution Abatement Program)
1.    Aldabra Ecosystem Restoration Program
      o    rehabilitation of scientific research station.
      o    strengthening of scientific and managerial personnel.
      o    eradication of feral goats.
      o    preparation of long term management plan for Aldabra.
2.    Protection of Sea Turtles
      (a)  Green turtle protection program:
           *      stock assessment, and preparation of a plan for
                  the achievement and maintenance of a sustainable
                  yield, of green turtles.
      (b)  Hawksbill turtle protection program:
           *      turtle ranching feasibility study.
           *      program (legislative measures, publicity
                  campaigns, etc.) to control the supply and demand
                  of turtle shells.
           *      turtle trade compensation study.
           *      compensation, retraining, and reinstallation
                  program for turtle shell artisans.
3.    Abatement of Marine Pollution
      o    feasibility study and engineering designs for the
           construction of facilities to receive and dispose of
           waste from commercial and fishing vessels at the Port of
           Victoria.
Part C:    Transport
1.    Praslin Road Improvement Program
Page  10
      o    upgrading to paved status of Anse Boudin, Anse
           Consolation and Anse Kerlan road segments on Praslin,
           totalling 13.3 km.
2.    Praslin Airport Improvements
      o    extension and paving of parking apron.
      o    resurfacing of existing runway.
3.    Road Traffic Safety Program
      o    diagnostic and evaluation study of current situation,
           including an evaluation of economic and social costs of
           road accidents, and a proposed action plan to improve
           traffic safety.
      o    introduction of road signs and markings, installation of
           crash barriers, and improvement of street lighting.
      o    construction of 3-km footpath along Cascade Road to
           separate pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
      SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:    Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines).
2.    Civil works up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $95,000,
and equipment, materials and supplies up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed $20,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Trustee.
3.    Equipment, materials and supplies, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed $170,000, may be procured on the basis of comparison
of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Trustee.
4.    Contracts for office materials, office supplies and fuel,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000, may be awarded after direct
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Trustee.
Part B:    Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)  With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
      (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  11
      (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the GET
Grant Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Recipient shall employ consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Recipient shall designate a National Coordinator within
MEPER to be responsible for the overall coordination of the EMPS,
including implementation of this Project.
2.    The Recipient shall make adequate annual budgetary allocations
to finance the operational budget of DOE.
3.    The Recipient shall have appropriate legislation adopted, not
later than December 31, 1993, to make it unlawful for any person:
      (a)  to hunt for, kill, capture, take, or otherwise tamper
with, any hawksbill turtles, to which the restrictions under
Appendix I of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) apply; or
      (b)  to deal in, or be engaged in any process of
transformation, or trade, involving, such turtles or any part or
product thereof.
4.    (a)  Not later than December 31, 1994, the Recipient and the
Trustee shall undertake a mid-term review of the Project, during
which they shall exchange views generally on all matters relating to
the progress of the Project, and the performance by the Recipient of
its obligations under this Agreement, including, but not limited to:
(i) the overall managerial efficiency and performance of SIF, and
(ii) progress in the sea turtles' management plans in relation to
the outcome of stock assessment, the Hawksbill turtle ranching
study, and the turtle trade compensation study.
      (b)  Not later than one month prior to each such review, the
Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee, for its comments, a report,
in such detail as the Trustee shall reasonably request, on the
progress and status of the Project, and giving details, in
particular, of the specific issues due to be addressed during such
review.
      (c)  Following each such review, the Recipient shall act
promptly and diligently, in order to take any corrective action
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the
implementation of the Project, or to implement such other measures
as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of
the objectives of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
Page  12
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (b)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$100,000 to be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
      (b)  (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee requests
                  for deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
          (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient,
                  withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit
                  into the Special Account such amount as the
                  Recipient shall have requested and as shall have
                  been shown by said documents and other evidence
                  to have been paid out of the Special Account for
                  eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee from the GET
Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special
Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Trustee shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Trustee shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)  if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly
from the GET Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Trustee pursuant to Section
Page  13
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible
categories shall follow such procedures as the Trustee shall specify
by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)  If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the
Trustee (A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may
request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Trustee
shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Trustee into the Special Account shall be made until
the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
      (b)  If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient
shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee
such outstanding amount.
      (c)  The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to
the Trustee all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)  Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
