Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18551-LA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT
EQUIVALENT TO SDR 1.5 MILLION
TO THE
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
DISTRICT UPLAND DEVELOPMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
February 18, 1999
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of January 1999)
Currency Unit  Kip
Kip 1.00   US$ 0.0002
US$1.00 4,200 Kip
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DAFO           - District Agriculture and Forestry Office
DEO            - District Education Office
DFO            - District Finance Office
DHO            - District Health Office
DPSC           - District Project Steering Committee
DPD            - District Project Director
GOL            - Government of Lao PDR
IAPSO          - Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization
IDA            - International Development Association
IUCN           - International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources
LIL            - Learning and Innovation Loan
MOF            - Ministry of Finance
M&E            - Monitoring & Evaluation
NBCA           - National Biodiversity Conservation Area
NGO            - Non-Governmental Organization
NNT            - Nakai-Nam Theun
NTFP           - Non Timber Forest Products
PAFO           - Provincial Agriculture and Forestry Office
PEO            - Provincial Education Office
PFO            - Provincial Finance Office
PHO            - Provincial Health Office
PIU            - Project Implementation Unit
PO             - Project Office
PPD            - Provincial Project Director
PPSC           - Provincial Project Steering Committee
PRA            - Participatory Rural Appraisal
PRDC           - Provincial Rural Development Committee
RDC            - Rural Development Committee
SAP            - Social Action Plan
TA             - Technical Assistance
SOE            - Statement of Expenses
UNDP           - United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF         - United Nations Children's Fund
WWF            - World Wildlife Fund
Vice President                     Jean-Michel Severino
Country Manager/Director           Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Manager/Director            Geoffrey Fox
Task Team Leader/Task Manager      Susan Shen



LAO PDR
DISTRICT UPLAND DEVELOPMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ............................................2
B. Strategic Context .................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project .................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................................2
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the LIL ...............................................3
4. Learning and innovation expectations .................................................3
C. Project Description Summary .......................................5
1. Project outputs and components .....................................5
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements .....................................6
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements .....................................8
D. Project Rationale ....................................                                                                               9
[N/A; implicit in section B.3 above] .....................................9
E. Project Analyses .....................................9
1. Economic analysis .....................................9
2. Institutional assessment .....................................9
3. Social assessment ..................................... 0
4. Environmental assessment ....................................                                                                   10
F. Risks ....................................                                                                                           11
1. Critical risks ...1.............................. 1
2. Possible controversial aspects .................................                                                                12
G. Main Credit Conditions ....................................                                                                          12
1. Effectiveness conditions .................................                                                                     12
2. Other .................................                                                                                         12
H. Readiness for Implementation ....................................                                                                    13
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .................................... 13



Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .............................................                       14
Annex 2.  Detailed Project Description .............................................                 17
Annex 2.1  Project Organization and Management Arrangement .............................................     20
Annex 2.2  Project Implementation Schedule .............................................             21
Annex 2.3  Project Monitoring and Evaluation Framework .............................................  22
Annex 2.4  Strategy for the Ethnic Groups in the Project Area .............................................   23
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .26
Annex 4. Economic Analysis .27
Annex 5. Financial Analysis (N/A) .28
Annex 6.  Procurement, Financial Management, and Disbursement Arrangements .29
Table A  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .34
Table Al Consultant Selection Arangements .35
Table B   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .36
Table C Allocation of Loan Proceeds.                                                                 37
Annex 7. Project Processing Budget and Schedule.                                                     38
Annex 8. Documents in Project File .39
Annex 9. Statement of Loans and Credits .40
Annex 10. Country at a Glance .....................                                                  42
Map IBRD 29998 Project Sites



Lao PDR
District Upland Development and Conservation Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Date: January 28, 1999                             Team Leader: Susan Shen
Country Director: Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala              Sector Manager: Geoffrey B. Fox
Project ID: 59305                                  Theme(s): Environmentally Sustainable Development
Lending Instrument: Leaming and Innovation Loan (LIL)  Poverty Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [ I No
Project Financing Data              [  Loan       [X] Credit
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$2.0 million equivalent/ SDR 1.5 Million
Proposed terms:                       [    Multicurrency     [ ]  Single currency, US$
Grace period (years): 10 [I]   Standard Variable  [ ]  Fixed                E ]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: NA
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign          Total
Government                                               0.25                               0.25
Cofinanciers
IBRD
IDA                                                      0.49               1.51            2.00
Other (specify)
Total       0.74                1.51            2.25
Borrower: Lao People's Democratic Republic
Responsible agencies: Government of Khammouane Province
Government of Nakai District
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   1999       1999       2000     2000   2001   2001   2002
Semi-Annual    0.45        0.45      0.30      0.30    0.20    0.20    0.10
Cumulative    0.45       0.90       1.20      1.50    1.70    1.90   2.00
Project implementation period: 3 years Expected effectiveness date: 4/1/99    Expected closing date: 9/30/02
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (see Annex 1):
The overall development objective of the project is the adoption of more intensified agricultural practices
by farmers in the pilot areas as a means to improve the livelihoods of local communities while at the same
time conserve the biodiversity of a high priority protected area. It is well-recognized internationally that
interventions to conserve biodiversity and critical upland watershed areas must be linked to rural poverty
reduction in those areas. Such approaches, however, are relatively new and as yet unproven for
conservation of biologically important areas in Lao PDR and elsewhere in the Asia Region. The
experiences gained and lessons learned from the LIL would provide timely inputs into the
implementation of the Government's new Rural Development Program, IDA's proposed longer-term
engagement in rural poverty alleviation and natural resources management, and other donor-funded
programs addressing natural resources development and conservation in Lao PDR. Performance of the
project will be based on the following indicators.
2. Key Impact/Outcome indicators (see Annex 1):
*  A significant increase in proportion of people in pilot villages and sample of secondary villages that
are aware of, understand, willing to try, trying out, continuing to practice new agricultural techniques
or some variant thereof.
*  Increase in basic literacy by at least 5-10 percentage points and numeracy by 20 percentage points.
*  No expansion of net area under shifting cultivation in pilot villages.
3. Key Output indicators (see Annex 1):
•  Number of farmers engaged in demonstrations of different types and number of exchange days held.
*  Number of village health and education volunteers trained/retrained.
*  Land and resource use plans negotiated in the three pilot villages and included in the village plan
submitted by the Village Chief.
*  Villagers and staff satisfied with field team and supporting management's provision of relevant
project services of acceptable quality.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the LIL (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 15284-LA   Date of latest CAS discussion: February 22, 1996
The project would support the Bank's assistance strategy for effective and sustainable management of
natural resources by providing opportunities for upland rural populations to break-free of subsistence and
slash-and-burn agricultural practices and to manage natural resources sustainably. Although the objective
of the LIL is consistent with overall sector-related CAS goal, the LIL was not specifically identified since
it was not available as a lending instrument when the CAS was developed (in 1996). A new CAS is
currently under preparation and is expected to be submitted to the Board by fourth quarter of FYl999.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Lao PDR is heavily dependent on its natural resource base including agriculture to provide a livelihood
for the bulk of its population and to earn foreign exchange from hydropower and forestry. Consequently,
the Government attaches great importance to effective and sustainable management of the country's
natural resources, particularly in the upland areas that are critical for watershed protection. To counter
the increasing loss of natural resources, the Government has initiated a number of policies and programs.
A key objective of the recently-established Government of Lao PDR (GOL) Rural Development Program



Page 3
(1998-2002) is to reduce the practice of shifting cultivation which results in clearing of some 3,000
square kilometers of forested land annually and which is prevalent in upland and critical watershed areas.
To protect areas of high biodiversity, forestry, and watershed values, GOL established eighteen protected
areas (called National Biodiversity Conservation Areas or NBCAs) under Prime Ministerial Decree No.
164 (1993). Many of the NBCAs are located in upland areas and have communities residing in or around
those areas. At present these communities face severe poverty and deterioration of the resource base and
consequently their livelihood. The communities' response to the harsh conditions is further reliance and
exploitation on forest products through expanding swidden agriculture and collection of wildlife and
forest products for subsistence and cash income. A vicious circle has thus emerged. What may once
have been a feasible and sustainable adaptation to the natural environment may now be undermining the
foundation for that production, livelihood pattern, and culture. Although government policy is to resettle
such groups into the lowlands and more productive agricultural areas, the resettlement experiences for a
variety of reasons have not been good and many people have moved back to these original upland areas.
Upland development and conservation is complex, not only technologically but also culturally and
institutionally. The addition of an explicit biodiversity conservation objective makes it even more
challenging to design and implement in Laos. GOL's general approach to implementation of new
policies and programs is to first develop and test models followed by replication and scaling up.
Therefore, GOL is interested in the LIL as an instrument to develop, test, and fine-tune approaches that
would enable the upland communities to stay in those environmentally critical areas, improve their
livelihood, maintain their cultural identify, which is linked to the area, and at the same time, conserve the
biodiversity of the NBCAs and the watershed areas.
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the LIL:
The LIL will address whether and how: (a) available or locally developed agriculture technologies and
practices can be adapted to local conditions and accepted by villagers at the pilot villages; (b) these
practices, combined with conservation awareness, provide sufficient incentives to villagers to reduce
current shifting cultivation practices; (c) effective local organizational arrangements could be developed
to deliver appropriate and feasible upland poverty alleviation programs linked to conservation; and (d) the
developed decentralized, locally-based practices are likely to be replicable to other sites.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
a) Economic. The attractiveness to upland farmers, of the various agriculture/non-timber forest
products (NTFP) alternatives to be developed and tested under the project, will be evaluated
during project implementation. At this stage it is not possible to construct farm budgets - let
alone forecast adoption rates. Good alternative methods/crops will need to work well from
several points of view - yields, labor requirements and marketing - and provide better/more
secure returns than expansion of shifting cultivation. Data will be collected during project
implementation to construct farm budgets for the different agriculture/NTFP options. Data will
also be collected on project impact indicators to allow a full cost-benefit calculation of the
various agriculture/NTFP options and combinations as well as the other project interventions
(conservation and provision of basic social services). The aim is to come up with an effective
affordable model that can be replicated on a larger scale by GOL with or without donor support.
b) Technical. The expected menu of agriculture technologies to be tested in the pilot villages
and adapted to local conditions are (a) expansion and intensification of paddy rice culture; (b)
intensification of existing home gardens (e.g., women's river gardens, home gardens, swidden
fallow); and (c) domestication of commercially traded NTFP, and other cash crops. Among rice
consuming populations in Southeast Asia, the evolution of land use under low input



Page 4
conditions has tended toward a mosaic of paddy rice on the bottomlands and perennial crop
gardens in the uplands. In the project area, rice paddies are a natural alternative to upland rice
under conditions of short fallow and declining yields and where the adoption of rice paddies is
already well underway. The shift to perennial crops is almost the only other alternative to
shifting cultivation that has any widely proven record of acceptance worldwide. Since there is
already a trade in NTFPs, the domestication of NTFPs in the project area will not only protect
them from over-exploitation but also provide means for diversification of livelihood options. The
work on NTFPs will build upon the experience of the IUCN/NTFP project in Laos and the
worldwide NTFP network to ensure that the practices are technically and environmentally sound
and culturally appropriate.
c) Institutional. The LIL will test the decentralization policy and rely upon and strengthen local
institutions (provincial-, district-, and village-level) and grassroots mass organizations to further
develop and deliver upland poverty alleviation programs linked to conservation to the Project
Area. Lao PDR has several village-reaching mass organizations that could serve as an
intermediary between government service providers and village-based organizations and
traditional institutions. The project will test the possibilities of using these institutions in a
facilitating capacity. The reliance on existing institutional and organizational structures to
implement activities is expected to be more sustainable in the long-run, and more easily
replicable by the Government.
d) Social and Environmental. The LIL is expected to develop environmentally beneficial and
socially- and culturally-acceptable alternatives to improve livelihood of pilot villages in an
environmentally sensitive and high biodiversity area. The focus on increased food production,
intensification of land use, and increased awareness of resource limitations is expected to lead to
a reduction of the current reliance on hunting and shifting cultivation. The project will test the
hypothesis that improvements of livelihood and acquisition of basic social qualifications will
strengthen the social capital, self esteem and cultural identity of upland communities.
e) Participation. The LIL relies on high degree of participation at all levels. These include
active participation of the villagers in the process of selecting and developing agricultural
demonstration trials, of forming fanner interest groups, in developing village land and resource
use plans, and in monitoring project activities and in protection of the area.   The active
participation in the process of planning land and resource uses and joint managementlprotection
is expected to lead to more environmentally-sustainable and culturally-acceptable land and
resource-use practices and raise the level of awareness and responsibility for protection and
management of the Project Area. Village committees on behalf of the villagers, district-,
provincial-, and central-level authorities and project staff are expected to participate regularly in
monitoring of implementation and provide feedback for adjustments and fine-tuning. All levels
will participate in the final evaluation which would be carried out (facilitated and consolidated)
by an independent evaluation team.



Page 5
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project outputs and components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed
cost breakdown):
The project consists of four components as follows:
(i) Agriculture Support Component. Focusing on the three pilot villages, this component would increase
food security through provision of information and development of simple technologies to test,
demonstrate, improve, and intensify production of paddy rice and supplementary food derived from home
gardens and to domesticate NTFP.
(ii) Social Support Component. This component would improve the level of basic health and education
services throughout the three upper Zones (or sub-watersheds) of the NBCAs. The health service would
focus on raising awareness of personal, family, and environmental hygiene and provision of basic health
facilities and supplies. The education service would focus on non-formal education to provide basic
literacy and numeracy, especially for women, and the provision of additional basic primary education
facilities and supplies.
(iii) Conservation Support and Awareness Component. Focusing on the three pilot villages, this
component would elicit active participation of the villagers in the sustainable management, use, and
protection of biodiversity. The focus would be on participatory processes to developing a village land
and resource use plan, increasing community awareness of the constraints and opportunities of the natural
resource base, and village participation in protection and monitoring of valuable biodiversity within their
village administrative and spiritual territory.
(iv) Institutional Strengthening and Monitoring and Evaluation Component. This component would
improve the management and technical skills of staff to implement activities at the provincial-, district-,
and village-levels. It would also test whether the current administrative implementation mechanism and
decentralization process are enhancing delivery of services to beneficiaries and the extent to which
village organizations have the capacity to absorb these services. A simple and practical monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) system would be established to ensure timely qualitative and quantitative feedback on
project implementation to make needed corrections. In addition, regular meetings at the village, district,
and provincial-level would be organized to ensure that implementation experiences and lessons are
documented and disseminated and considered for application in other government programs by the
Government's rural development committees at various levels.



Page 6
Component              Category     Indicative    % of    Bank-      % of
Cost Incl.    Total  financing    Bank-
Contingencies         (US$M)  financing
(US$M)
Agriculture Support          Institutions       0.70        31      0.60        30
Building/
Physical
Social Support               Institutions       0.17         7      0.10         5
Building/
Physical
Conservation Support and      Institutions      0.26        12      0.21        11
Awareness                     Building/
Other
Institutional Strengthening &  Institutions     1.12        50       1.09       54
Monitoring & Evaluation      Building/
Project
Management
Total         2.25       100      2.00       100
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period The implementation period would be three years.
Project management.   Khammouane Province Government would have overall management
responsibility in line with GOL decentralization policy. In addition to the Development Credit
Agreement, there would be a separate Project Agreement between IDA and Khammouane Province.
Although Provincial authorities would have overall coordination responsibility, most of the project
activities would be implemented by Nakai District authorities with technical support and advice from the
Province and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry at the central-level.
At the provincial-level, the existing Provincial Rural Development Committee (PRDC), with some
additional people, would serve as the Provincial Project Steering Committee (PPSC). The Vice-Governor
of Khammouane Province would be chairman of the PPSC. A small administrative office, the Project
Implementation Unit (PmU), consisting of a Provincial Project Director (PPD), Accountant/Disbursement
Officer, Procurement Officer, Monitoring and Evaluation Officer, and Secretary have been established
and attached to the Vice Governor's office to coordinate project activities and assist the PPD. It was
agreed at negotiations that the PIU would prepare and submit an annual work plan, financial plan, and
procurement schedule for project activities for the next fiscal year to IDA for review and comments by
July 31 of each year; beginning with July 31, 1999.
At the district-level, a District Project Steering Committee (DPSC) with the Nakai District Vice-Governor
as the chairman has been established. A small administrative office, the Project Office (PO), has been
established and attached to the District Vice Governor's office consisting of a District Project Director
(DPD), an Accountant/Bookkeeper, Procurement/Monitoring Officer, and Clerk/Secretary to assist the
DPSC in management and monitoring. At both provincial and district levels, actual field implementation
would be carried out by the staff of the relevant agencies (i.e., PAFO/DAFO, NBCA, PEO/DEO,
PHO/DHO, PFO/DFO, mass organizations, etc.). To ensure that the experiences and lessons learned
from the project are fed back to the government's programs, the central Rural Development Committee
(RDC) would facilitate the process.



Page 7
At the field and village-level, a site management team consisting of an NBCA staff with support from one
or two local consultants would be established and located at each of the three pilot villages to coordinate,
activities in these villages as well as in the three sub-watersheds of the Project Area. The site
management would work closely with the Village Head and Village Committees in training villagers and
facilitate implementation of project field activities. Technical support would be provided by field
extension teams comprising of PAFO/DAFO staff with expertise in forestry and agriculture.
(See Annex 2.1 for Project Organization and Management Arrangements and Annex 2.2 for
Implementation Schedule)
Financial Management and Auditing Arrangements.
In line with the GOL's decentralization policy, the proceeds of the IDA Credit would be made available
to the Khammouane Province Government, which would be responsible for its management. To facilitate
project implementation, a Special Account will be opened and managed by the Provincial Finance Office
(PFO). The Provincial PIU will maintain separate accounts covering all financial transactions for project
activities. The PIU would prepare replenishment applications for the Special Account from the IDA
credit. The PIU would provide guidance to the PO on disbursement as needed and ensure that proper
accounting records are maintained by the PO.
Project accounts will be audited annually by a qualified external independent auditor acceptable to IDA;
appointment of the auditor would be a condition of effectiveness. In view of IDA financed expenditures
estimated to be less than $700,000 per year, an audit will be agreed on a terms of reference acceptable to
IDA. IDA funds will be used to pay for annual auditing work. These audits will cover (a) project
accounts, (b) the Special Account, (c) Statements of Expenditures (SOE). SOE audits will contain a
separate opinion as to whether the disbursements were used for the purposes intended. The detailed audit
report would be submitted to IDA within six months of the closing of the government's fiscal year.
A review of the accounting and financial management arrangements at Khammouane Province was
carried out by the Bank during project preparation. The conclusion is that the PFO has the basic
framework for handling the accounting and disbursement aspects of the Project. The PFO is well
organized and budgeting, accounting, disbursement, and reporting functions are handled by experienced
staff. In accordance with French accounting principles, there is a clear separation of duties relating to
commitment, payment, and recording of GOL expenditures. This separation of responsibilities is a
central piece of the whole GOL accounting system.
The draft Accounting Procedures Manual, accounting records to be maintained, and periodic financial
reports to be produced were agreed at appraisal. Although the accounting arrangements are satisfactory,
the PMR-based disbursement is not considered appropriate for this project. About 75 percent of the
Credit will be paid directly.
The project is the first to be decentralized under a recent GOL decision. In the past all Special Accounts
and related accounting were centralized at MOF. GOL is considering transferring of this responsibility to
the implementing units beginning the first half of 1999. The Bank is initiating discussions with GOL to
assist in developing project financial management systems at the implementing units. Action plans to
introduce PMR-based disbursement will be developed in that context.



Page 8
Procurement Arrangements.
Procurement would follow the Bank's guidelines, as indicated in Annex 6. Procurement planning and
implementation will be handled mainly by the Procurement Officer of the PIU in consultation and
coordination with the District PO. The PIU will handle most of the procurement including consulting
services, vehicles, goods requiring national shopping, and works through lump sum, fixed-price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors. Work requiring
force account and community participation would be coordinated by the PO with assistance and
supervision by the PIU.
3. Monitoring and evaluation qrrangements:
Monitoring will be done at three levels-delivery of inputs by the project activities, outputs including the
use of project goods/services by beneficiaries, and the extent to which project objectives have been
achieved (outcome/impact). The monitoring and evaluation framework is shown in Annex 2.3.
Project staff, village volunteers, and supervisors will provide monthly reports on their project-related
activities. Some of the reporting/debriefing may take place via short-wave radio if travelling to and from
the area is not possible. Village volunteers and village administrative committees (who will be engaged
to assist with output monitoring) will report on a quarterly basis. The Monitoring and Evaluation Officer
at the Provincial PIU and the Procurement/Monitoring Officer at District PO will be primarily responsible
for ensuring the collection, compilation and maintenance of project data.
It was agreed at negotiations that a detailed monitoring plan, including description of the process and
format for Project input and output monitoring, will be developed by the PPD with assistance from the
Chief Technical Adviser (in consultation with concerned people) by September 30, 1999. Monitoring
indicators will be both quantitative and qualitative. The key performance indicators for the project are
presented in the Project Design Summary (Annex 1). This list will be expanded with a number of
different progress indicators (inputloutput level) as the monitoring plan is developed. The monitoring
indicators/format will be reviewed semi-annually and adapted as needed. It was agreed at negotiations that
a progress report including results of the on-going monitoring, would be furnished to IDA every six months,
beginning October 31, 1999.
Ongoing Evaluation. Ensuring learning and adjusting strategies as appropriate to meet agreed objectives is a
key responsibility of project management. There will be a continuous evaluation of what works and areas
that need improvement. In addition to reporting on monitoring indicators, implementing staff would
provide quarterly narrative progress reports including constraints and proposed solutions. Supervisors
will prepare quarterly reports to the PO/PIU outlining key issues, proposed options and any matters on
which guidance/support is needed from project management or the project steering committees. The
Chief Technical Advisor will support project managers and supervisors in reviewing the status of project
progress, issues and options for improvement. PO/PIU staff will prepare issues memos/agendas for the
quarterly discussions in the DPSC and the semi-annual meetings of the PPSC.
Impact Evaluation. The final evaluation will be contracted to independent consultants based on terms of
reference acceptable to IDA. Project impact will be evaluated based on: (a) reports from the internal M&E
system; (b) a socio-economic survey in the Project Area; and (c) a resource assessment. An up-front
baseline survey will determine the awareness level/adoption stage for the proposed "best bet"
technological innovations. The initial participatory rural appraisals (PRA) in the pilot villages will
provide the baseline for the status of the resource base. The client survey will engage the relevant village



Page 9
committees and project beneficiaries in an evaluation of the impact of project interventions and an
assessment of how impact could be enhanced in future applications.
The fndings of the project impact evaluation will be submitted to the PPSC for review and discussion. They
will be used as the basis for wider review by the central-level RDC and the promotion of successful
interventions, where appropriate, throughout the province and elsewhere in Laos. The final evaluation
report would be carried out under terms of reference acceptable to IDA by March 31, 2002 unless otherwise
warranted by a follow-on project.
D: Project Rationale
Note: this section not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in Section B.3
E: Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic Analysis (supported by Annex 4):
The project will test a new way to improve food security and livelihoods of upland farmers, provide a
minimum package of social services and simultaneously protect the conservation area through effective
management of natural resources. The approach to be tested has been designed to be low-cost, to
demonstrate an effective and yet affordable alternative. Design features include maximizing use of
existing government staff, facilities, policies and practices, and local TA. The new production techniques
will be demonstrated at selected pilot villages only, rather than in a large-scale program or in all the
villages in the Project Area. The new approach will cost considerably less than traditional government
mechanisms (regulatory management, moving people to lowland areas and consolidating villages) to
achieve the same objectives. These mechanisms have been quite expensive and do not have a good
success record.
During implementation of the LIL, statistical data will be collected to prepare farn budgets and evaluate
project impact. This will allow standard cost-benefit analysis to be carried out for a potential follow-up
project involving larger-scale investment.
2. Institutional assessment:
a Executing agencies: One of the general conclusions of the 1998 Lao Country Portfolio
Performnance Reviews is that the capacity to plan, coordinate and implement projects in Laos is weak,
especially at the local levels. The preparation briefly assessed the implementation and absorptive
capacity of the Khammouane province and Nakai District institutions which will be implementing the
LIL. The project is addressing institutional weakness particularly at the district level by (a) directing a
significant portion of the investment on strengthening local capacity (e.g., intensive training combined
with on-the-job learning in the field provided by TAs and) to deliver appropriate agriculture,
conservation, and basic social services to remote upland villages; (b) focusing project activities mainly on
three pilot villages; and (c) keeping implementation and monitoring and evaluation procedures simple and
relying and building upon the existing government organizational structure.



Page 10
b. Project management: As indicated in the discussion on implementation arrangements, a small
administrative office would be established at the province (e.g., PIU) and the district (e.g., PO) to assist
the project directors and project steering committees in the management and coordination of project
activities particularly with regard to financial management and accounting, procurement, planning, and
monitoring. Financial management, procurement, and work plan training will be provided to the staff of
the PIU and PO. A long-terin Chief Technical Advisor and short-term Training and Monitoring and
Evaluation Specialist will assist the PPD/DPD in developing and implementing simple and practical
project administrative/operating and monitoring and evaluation procedures as well as training plan and
curriculum.
3. Social assessment.:
The population in the project area consists of a number of different ethnic minority groups, all of whom
are considered indigenous to the area. In accordance to OD 4.20, a Socio-Cultural Diversity Study
followed by a Social Action Plan (SAP) have been carried out. The SAP identified priority needs of the
people in the conservation area, examined the livelihood systems practiced by the different ethnic groups,
and proposed a plan for enhancing the food security and basic development needs. The results of the
assessment have been incorporated into the design of the LIL (see Annex 2.4 for summary of the ethnic
composition and project strategy). No resettlement is envisioned under the project; rather the project is
trying to develop alternative livelihood packages for poor communities to stay on-site.
4. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category [ ] A [ ] B [ X ] C
The proposed LIL is based on the draft Environment and Social Management Plan for Nakai-Nam Theun
Catchment and Corridor Areas prepared by IUCN on behalf of the GOL. As a pilot, the investment scale
is small, consists mainly of technical assistance and training to build local capacity, and is supporting
environmentally sustainable upland livelihood activities that require low-inputs. Project activities will
build upon indigenous knowledge and rely on participatory approaches which take specific ethnic
characteristics into consideration.



Page 1 1
F: Risks
1. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
External threats to the area and its biodiversity  S     Strengthen patrolling and
do not increase                                          monitoring through establishment
of village conservation monitoring
units working closely with District
government enforcement staff.
Transboundary incursions are being
addressed through an IJNDP/WWF
regional transboundary project
which is promoting/facilitating
collaboration between governments
in management of high priority
transboundary protected areas.
No in-migration to the project site             S        Agree on village administration
boundaries and land/resource use
plans incorporating customary uses
and rights to preclude unofficial in-
migration into existing villages; and
at the same time, avoid investments
(e.g., infrastructure) that might
attract in-migration
Available technology packages/methods can be    M        Some agricultural practices already
applied to local conditions                              being demonstrated in the project
area; use of participatory tools
would ensure identified packages
are suitable and desirable culturally.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to
Outputs"
Local counterpart funding available in a timely  M       Obtain written commitment from
manner                                                   provincial/district governments of
the first year's counterpart funds as
a condition of effectiveness and
prepare annual work plans with
assistance from project TA to
access counterpart funding for
subsequent years.
Local counterpart staff available to work for   S        Provide incentives in terms of
extended periods in the field with the project           opportunities for training, field
allowances, and field housing and
equipment.
Overall Risk Rating     S       I



Page 12
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
2. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Possible NGO opposition to Bank's involvement since the project is located near the proposed Nam
Theun 2 (NT2) Hydropower Project which is highly controversial among the NGO community because
of its likely environmental and social impacts.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Thefollowing conditions were met prior to negotiations:
* Letter from the Governor of Khammouane Province approving the Project Implementation
Manual.
* Letter from the Minister of Finance agreeing that the project Special Account would be
established and managed by Khammouane Province.
2. Effectiveness Conditions:
* Legal opinion by the Ministry of Justice including an opinion that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by Khammouane Province and is legally binding upon
Khammouane Province.
* Selection of an Auditor.
3. Other:
To ensure sound monitoring and evaluation mechanisms during implementation, the following would be
agreed at negotiations:
Accounts andAudits
* Agreement that consolidated accounts for all components would be maintained for annual
auditing by external independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and the consolidated project
accounts together with the auditor's report would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
close of each financial year.
Monitoring and Reporting
*  Agreement that the PIU will develop a detailed monitoring plan by September 30, 1999 including
mechanisms to disseminate experiences and promote replication of the LIL.
*  Agreement that the PIU (a) prepare a progress report including results of the progress monitoring
indicators to be submitted to IDA for review every six months, beginning November 15, 1999;
and (b) PIU prepare an annual work plan, financial plan, and procurement schedule for project
activities for the next fiscal year to be submitted to IDA for review and comments by July 31 of
each year, beginning with July 31, 1999.



Page 13
* Agreement that an external independent final evaluation of project impact would be carried out
by consultants under terms of reference acceptable to IDA submitted to IDA by March 31, 2002,
unless otherwise needed for the purpose of a larger follow-on project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ I The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [in the Project Implementation Manual]
[x] The LIL's implementation plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
[signature]
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Susan Shen
[signature]          i       .            / (74
Sector Manager/Director: Geo eyv ox
[signature] M e e        g   Okojo-wela          |
Country Manager/Director: Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala



Page 14
Annex 1
LAO PDR: DISTRICT UPLAND DEVELOPMENT AND CONSERVATION
PROJECT
Learning and Innovation Loan
Project Design Summary
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:                                     (from Goal to Bank
Mission)
1.  Providing opportunities    1.  Improved food security;    *   Poverty Assessments   *   Appropriate
to upland rural         2.  Reduction in proportion of    Resource Monitoring      macroeconomic
population to break free    population dependent on                                conditions and
of subsistence and slash-   slash and burn;                                        policies in place.
and-bum agricultural    3.  Status of natural
practices. Effective and    resources.
sustainable management
of natural resources.
Follow-on Project Objective:
l.  To achieve a significant   1.  Wide-scale adoption of
increase in adoption rate   the demonstrated
of the demonstrated         approach in other
agricultural and social     government and donor
sector packages.            programs.
2.  Retain present bio-
diversity in
environmentally fragile
upland areas.          l_l_l_                                                                          l
Project Development         Outcome l impact indicators:                           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:
l.  The adoption of more    1 .  A significant increase in    *   Baseline survey on  *   The developed
intensified agricultural    proportion of people in       adoption stage           decentralized,
practices by upland         pilot villages and sample    *   Ex-post evaluation    locally-based
farmers in pilot areas.     of secondary villages that   *   Village land/         approach can be
(The miare:                        resource use plans       replicated to other
(The main practices    |    -aware of                     provide baseline         sites.
cover: wet paddy rice,      -understand                   information for      *   Agriculture packages
domestication of NTFPs,     -willing to try               monitoring               combined with
improved gardens and        -trying out                                            conservation
planting of permanent       -continuing to practice                                awareness activities
crops in fallow).           new agricultural                                       provide sufficient
techniques or some variant                             incentives to reduce
thereof;                                               slash and burn
2.  Increase in basic literacy                             practices.
(booki) by at least 5-10
percentage points,
numeracy 20 percentage
points;
3.  No expansion of net area
under slash and burn
cultivation in pilot
villages.



Page 15
Outpu-fromeach            0 Otput Indicators:                                    (from Outputs to
component:                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Objective)
1.Arculture packages    I1.  Number of farmers        * Annual reports;         * External threats to
demonstrated in              engaged in demonstrations  *   Participatory M&E       the area and its bio-
participating villages and   of different types and        report;                  diversity do not
evaluated for                number of exchange days   *   Client survey report     increase
effectiveness.               held.                         (annual);            *   No in-migration to
supervision mission      the project site;
2.  To provide a minimum                                       reports (periodic);       General acceptance
level of social services to  2.  Number of village health    *   evaluation mission  by villagers and GOL
help facilitate              and education volunteers     reports (ICR)             of land/resource use
participation in            trained/retrained; at least                             plan(s);
agriculture development      75% of volunteers holding                          *   Available technology
regular meetings in                                    packages/methods can
villages; village medical                              applied to local conditi
kit established and at least
60% replenished; number
of graduates from literacy/
numeracy courses.
3. Land and resource use
plans drawn up.         3.  Land and resource use
plans negotiated in the
three pilot villages and
included in the village
plan submitted by the
Village Chief.
4.  Demonstrate local
organizational          4.  At least 75% of field
arrangements to             teams confident of their
effectively deliver upland   ability to implement
poverty alleviation          project activities;
programs linked to
conservation.           Villagers (Committee on
Economic Affairs)
satisfied with field team
and supporting
management's provision
of relevant project
services of acceptable
quality;
No project activities delayed or
cancelled due to delays in
budget approval/fund
release. Inter-
departmental issues
quickly resolved by
provincial and district
steering committees.



Page 16
Project Components / Sub-    Project Inputs:   aget for                           (from Components to
components:                     each component)                                       Outputs)
1. Agriculture support      1.  US$ 0.70 million         *   Semi-annual reports      Local counterpart
including extension of                                   Disbursement record      funding available in a
livelihood and .                                                                  timely manner;
diversification activities;                                                   *   Local counterpart
staff available to
2.  Social support including   2.  US$ 0.17 million                                   work for extended
delivery of basic health                                                          periods in the field
services and formal/non-                                                          with the project;
formal education;
3.  Conservation support    3.  US$ 0.26 million
and awareness including
participatory village land
and resource use
mapping and community
awareness and education
extension;
4.  Institutional           4.  US$ 1.12 million
Strengthening,
Monitoring and
Evaluation including
upgrading of
management and
technical skills and
participatory M&E to
provide feedback on
implementation and
lessons leared.



Page 17
Annex 2
Lao PDR: District Upland Development and Conservation Project
Project Description
Project Area:
The Project Area is located in the Nakai Nam Theun National Biodiversity Conservation Area (NNT-
NBCA) which is an area of international significance in terms of biodiversity. This NBCA was selected
because (a) it is probably the richest and largest pristine forested area remaining in Lao PDR; (b) it is
important for watershed protection of a number of hydropower schemes that have been either constructed
or are planned for the Nam Theun River system; (c) several studies have already been conducted which
identified possible interventions that could reduce poverty in a sustainable manner while not
compromising the biodiversity; and (d) the World Bank have been requested by GOL to provide a
guarantee to the proposed NT2 Hydropower Project as well as IDA financing for an associated NT Social
and Environmental Project (NT-SEP) which would include assistance for the protection of the entire
NNT-NBCA. If NT2/NT-SEP moves forward, it would build on the experiences and lessons of the LIL.
The LIL would be implemented in the three upland sub-watershed zones of Nakai Nam Theun National
Biodiversity Conservation Area (NNT-NBCA) in Nakai District--Navang Zone (Nam Mon), Thapaiban
Zone (Nam Theun), and Teung Zone (Nam Noy). The main focus of project activities would be on three
pilot villages--Ban Navang, Ban Mak Feuang, and Ban Teung. These pilot villages were selected and
agreed with Nakai District officials based on the following criteria: (a) one from each of three upper sub-
watershed (or Zone) of the NNT-NBCA; (b) representative of two major production systems in the area
(e.g., swidden, swidden/paddy) which are being practiced by 85 percent of the villages; (c) have at least
20 households; (d) accessible to Nakai District; (e) have well-developed and cohesive community
organization; and (f) willing to participate in the project. Although agricultural interventions linked to
conservation would be piloted in these three villages, the other 26 villages in the sub-watershed zones are
expected to benefit from the project through the social support component which will improve the basic
health and education delivery system that serves the entire Project Area.
Project Description by Components:
A. Agriculture Support Component - US$0.70 million (total cost of component) would test
appropriate agricultural technologies that would reduce reliance on shifting cultivation and unsustainable
forest exploitation. It would provide technical assistance and training to build capacity of district and
provincial government agriculture and forestry staff to provide extension services and training to selected
farmers in the pilot villages to carry-out demonstration trials. These trials would focus on development of
stable, permanent, and more productive farming systems. Practices under consideration for
demonstration include improved wet rice cultivation, improved home gardens, and planting of perennial
crops (e.g., non-timber forest products) in fallow.
The process begins with a village mobilization and resource mapping exercise using participatory
appraisal tools conducted in concert with the land and resource use planning exercise of the
Conservation Support and Awareness Component. The participatory appraisals would lead to
identification and formation of farmer interest groups and selection of farmers for initial demonstration
trials. The interest groups and farmers would receive training, develop and establish the demonstration
trials, and maintain and monitor the plots on a regular basis. At least once a year, an "exchange day"
would be organized for the entire village and representatives of other villages to discuss the trials and
share experiences. New participants from the pilot villages would be selected in subsequent years to
establish new trials with support from the original participants and government staff.



Page 1 8
B. Social Support Component - US$0.17 million (total cost of component). The rationale for this
component is that a lack of basic literacy and numeracy skills denies villagers, especially women, the
right to participate in planning and implementation of local social and development initiatives which
could solve local problems. It also subject villagers to risk of getting cheated in market transactions.
Moreover, a healthy population is far more responsive to the introduction of new ideas than an unhealthy
one. Therefore, this component would provide improved level of basic education and health services
throughout the project area.
For education, it would focus on non-formal education to improve literacy and numeracy, especially for
women. The provide would upgrade the skills of provincial and district education staff and train Non-
Formal Education Workers using the curriculum and teaching methodology from the regional Non-formal
Education Center at Vientiane. It would also sponsor the participation of existing and candidate teachers
in the UNICEF teacher upgrading program. And it would finance construction or rehabilitation of basic
primary education schools and supplies (e.g., teaching materials) for which a local contribution in terms
of locally-available building materials and labor for construction for furnishings is required
For health, the focus is on raising awareness of personal, family, and environmental hygiene. The project
would provide training to provincial and district medical staff and volunteer village health workers and
birth attendants, and provide one basic health dispensary in each of the three sub-watershed zones and
supplies for which a local contribution is required.
C. Conservation Support and Awareness - US$0.26 million (total cost of component). The aim of
this component is to raise the awareness and support for biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of
natural resources in the pilot villages. It would finance the development of land and resource use plan for
each pilot village to ensure that agreed upon planned activities are environmentally sustainable and
consistent with the conservation activities of the NBCA. A participatory and community-based approach
would be used to develop the plan and the process would raise awareness of both the opportunities and
constraints to continued exploitation of the natural resource base and identify and reconcile long-term
biodiversity conservation objective of the NBCA with the basic needs of the villages.
Building on experiences of and activities currently being undertaken by Wildlife Conservation Society
and IUCN, the component would further develop and implement culturally-appropriate and village-based
conservation awareness and extension activities in conjunction with the Education Sub-Component to
enhance understanding, appreciation and management of the NBCA and its biodiversity. Activities
would include training of NBCA staff and community awareness volunteers, developing and
disseminating conservation education and extension materials.
A village conservation monitoring unit would be established at each pilot village to carry-out regular
monitoring and patrolling of areas under the administration of the village as a means to enlist the
participation of the villagers in NBCA management. The project would provide patrolling and
monitoring training, develop simple monitoring forms, field kits for the monitoring units, and field
allowances.
D. Institutional Strengthening, Monitoring, and Evaluation - US$1.12 million (total cost of
component). This component would develop and strengthen the capacity of government staff at
provincial- and district-level to implement upland poverty alleviation programs in the context of
biodiversity conservation in the Pilot Area. It will also develop new or refine existing training materials
and approaches which could be used elsewhere to strengthen local implementation capacity.
Furthermore, it will enhance the capacity of institutions and individuals at various levels to monitor,
evaluate, and refine field activities based on feedback from the beneficiaries. The component would
cover the following items:



Page 19
(i) Staff for the PO/PIU for project coordination, operating costs for the PO/PIU as well as necessary
vehicles and equipment (computers and office equipment and supplies). All of this expenditure is
incremental to the Provincial and District Government.
(ii) In-service and formal course training to upgrade skills of existing provincial and district
implementing and administrative staff. Workshops, cross-site visits, and farmer exchange days to
exchange experiences and lessons and promote greater dissemination of project activities.
(iii) Technical assistance (TA) needed to enhance overall local government and institutions' capacity to
implement, monitor and evaluate the project activities, travel and subsistence for the TAs. This includes
the Chief Technical Advisor, site facilitators, the Training Expert and/or the Monitoring and Evaluation
Expert. The technical assistance relies on a combination of local and international consultants and to
phase out in year three of implementation. It also includes vehicles, equipment and operating
expenditures as needed for these consultants to do their jobs.
(iv) A baseline survey to determine the awareness level/adoption stage for the proposed "best bet"
technologies would be carried out early. Independent consultants would be hired to conduct the final
impact evaluation (one international M&E expert and two national experts with experience in design and
implementation of socio-economic surveys). Eligible expenses associated with these surveys would be
reimbursed.



Page 20
ANNEX 2.1
District Upland Development and Conservation (LIL)
Project Organisation and Management Arrangements
National           Centml Leading
Committee for Rural
Development
Province        |POffice Mf Govetior of
Khammouane
Provinoe
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                _ _ _ _ _ _ _-      Provincial Projed Steering
Li     ProeCtmmiSteenom
P0U              Dep. Governor
DAFO  DEO      DHO             Mass              Di~~~~~          (Chalrr )n
Lrgs. .Dis  Prov. Project   Rural DeeloDerelopmenttee
Director        M emember and others
I    I             I               l            I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AcccLntarit    e.g.
I           l   Procurement    Prov. Technical Agenci
I              SecretaryM&E     Prov. Mass   Orgenisation s
III Seeda      Prov. Dir. FO
I I   g     I                  Dep. Governor Naked Dist.
District                                                                 .
OfficeofGovemormof
I        l      ~~~~~~Nakait Distiict
I                                      Di~~~~~~~Cmite  nstclocutured Steerins omte
I                   . j        
geIeret  IrsPO                                                                      Dep. G     nor
T DAFO   |   |  DEO    | |  DHO   |  |  M~~as                               (   Chaimm)
Orgs l ~District Project District Rual Development
_    _   3CA  I   _                        .         l~~~~~~~~~~~~ Direcdor  Comnmdbe members anci cthrs
1 1   l           | 1              1            l ~~~~~~~~~~~Procuement   TechniceW Acgences (3)
1   i           i |               |            i ~~~~~~~~~~~Secretary  Mass OrganisaUcns (3)
= ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ir. *  . 
Villiaage|                     I              li*  
l~ ~~~ - os l               l                    l            l --mr 
| I NBCA I I t |~~~~~~~~~~~CommKftee an Defence & Sefeguardi of Public Orier|
I   I  Staff  I   b                I             I  I~~~~~~~~~~~CormmKtes on Soio-cultural Affairs
l   l     I  ~~~NFW         VHWv!                                |Conmittes on Eoonornb-Affairs
LSE~ ~                                        ~ ~~~~ . .  . TI            
Vitage Intereslt Groups



ANNEX 2.2
LAO PDR: District Upland Developmeont and Conservation (LiL)
Project implementation Schedule
Year 1                                    Year 2                                     Year 3
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10 11 12  1  2  3  4 15  6 17  8 19 I10 11  12                1 2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10 11 12
I instItutional Strengthenlngt & Monitoring
Set up project administration systems                       ...
Deveiop Annual Workpianam2i
Recrui consultants
Procure equipment
Develop training plan                                                                                        I          -                                    31
Implement training plan                                                .*3..-3'-313   
Set up project monttornng systemns and organize baseline study   I
Inputand output monitornng                                                            .-..~~~1.                                                                        
Impact monitoring study                                                                                       ..
Implementation Completion Report
2 Agriculture Component
Train of Field Extension Teams
Diagnose and design interventions, mnci. baseline data coil.
Mobilize Villagers
Plan and implement trials                                                                                    ... .....                                                .
Monitor and replicae triats                                                                                             ..:..............*....                 .       .........
Market support activitiesT                                                                                                                        . .         .......c
3 Social Support Componentj
Train provincial & district health/education staff
Select & trin healthlnonformal education volunteers and collect baseline informnation  .    .
Set up & operate Revolvng Drug Funds                                                                                                                                    s;noweipeIpI;:;
Provide Improved healthcare services
Construct village dispensaries
Upgrade primary teachers
Improve primary & non-formal education                                                                                                                               -     ~      
Cosritprimary schools                                                                                                           J    t     H
Replace existing primary schools 
4 Conservation Component
Train NBCA staf and villagers
Cany out PRA/PVA, feed Into baseline Inforrnation
Demarcate village borders
Map existing land uses
Survey natural resources - NTFP
Develop village land use plans                                                                           ... ..
Deliver community awareness programs                                                                                     *      ~      *     *         ..                .     ...
Village monltoring and patrolling                                                                              .     . .         r         T.T4                   . ...



Page 22
District Upland Development and Conservaton IUL)                                          ANNEX 2.3
ProJect Monitoring and Evaluation Frameworrk
Inputs                Outputs            Inpact
Ministry of  |Cenrtal Leading
Agncrtufre&I 8  _  _    Commiee for Rral
Forestry,iomn
Fvinsal PmJec
b      Steering    ._
i -                                    Corrmmmtee
Project    Disbursement                Saei-annually
Implementat o  Reimbursement
n Office    Procurement
(PIU)     TA Acivities
i iFO  g        X i       I~~~~Training activities  
ISupply of inputs
8                                 iSjupervision PAFO
PO @Training aciviftes
Supply education
materials
Supervision bv PEO
Training activities
Supply health
Z  |  A             materials
Supervision by PHO
Supply of field kits &
training materials         District Project
Supervision NBCA              Steering
- - - - - - - - -   -       - - - - - -    mtee
District | Disbursements                 Quarterly
Pro         Procurement
Office 
Field visits by
DAFO/ NBCA
Inputs - seeds etc
Field visits
Selection NFW
lInputs - materials
Field visits
i  |  | DHo  |       |Training VHW
I  I  I      l             ITraining TBA
Inputs - materials                              End of Project Evaluation
11 School
I FW *I|Health effects
NFW  rDis-pe-nsaer-y |                                                          Education effects
VHW/TBA                 Field activities by
||NBCA  |                       NBCA staff        I                             Wildlife impac
Trial plots
DAFOI                                Farmer training
PAFO                                Field days                                      Livelihood effects
Team                                Inputs - materials                              Economic participation
Blodiversity
|sustainability
\(illage Nief ~~~~~~~~~ ~Patrol reports                                sutiablt
'                                      I~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~Land dearingI
1ilcommittee an Defenc& |'                         Evvldife trade        |      tIlf ma
Safeguard of Public Order                         Meefings held by VlIvr
|Meeting held by TBA
luse of mosquito nets        Health effects
SCommittee on Sodo-cultural                      1JiLiteracy exam oasses      |Educaton
{ [Affairs                   0                   IResource assessment
Plan for trials              Lvelihoodeffec
Report on trials progress    Economic participation
5Committee onEconomic Affairs IVits by DAFO/PAFO                               Biodiversity sustainability
Land use plan



Page 23
ANNEX 2.4
STRATEGY FOR THE ETHNIC GROUPS IN THE PROJECT AREA
1.   Nakai District in Khammouane Province is located on the border to Vietnam, far from the
Provincial Capital Thakhek. The total population of Nakai District is around 16,500 persons in 3,600
families / 3,000 households, living in 65 habitations/villages. It is administratively divided into six zones,
located in three distinct ecological zones: three zones in the upland watershed, bordering Vietnam inside
the National Biodiversity Conservation Area (NBCA), one on the plateau, where the reservoir for the
NamTheun II Hydropower project is planned, and two in relatively isolated valleys in the lowlands. The
LIL would be implemented in the three upland sub-watershed zones of Nakai Nam Theun National
Biodiversity Conservation Area (NNT-NBCA) in Nakai District: Navang Zone (Nam Mon), Thapaiban
Zone (Nam Theun), and Teung Zone (Nam Noy). The main focus of project activities would be on three
pilot villages: Ban Navang, Ban Mak Feuang, and Ban Teung.
Table 1: Population of the project area
Watershed     No. of   Pop.  Families _  House-  Ethnic  Ethnic   Ethnic
area:      villages                      holds   Vietic   Brou   Tai-Sek
Nam Theun          9     1702     394          351     40      311
Nam Mon            9     1491     381          294             294
Nam Noy          11      1854     428    _    364    184       100        80
TOTAL            29      5047    1203    _   1009    224       705       80
Pilot Villages:                            _
Mak Fuang                 284      68           53
Na Vang                   128      59           50
Teung                     317      74    _      63 
2.    The population can be divided into three main ethno-linguistic categories: Vietic, Brou, Tai-Sek.
Each of these groups will be described briefly in relation to the question of "indigenous" rights and
cultural identity.
The Vietic Groups
3.   The Vietic groups are the "original" inhabitants of the area and represent some of the least
developed from the point of view of agricultural techniques and integration into the Lao nation state. It is
estimated that there are approximately 225 Vietic households in the project area (mostly in Nam Noy
watershed, and to a lesser extent, in Nam Theun watershed). They represent the most diverse group,
ranging from, until recently, foraging nomads to wet rice cultivators. This will, no doubt, be the most
challenging group since many have suffered from forced relocation and mal-adjustment to new
agricultural techniques and lifestyles over the past twenty years. There are also examples of exploitation
and patron-client relations between the Vietic groups and other ethnic groups in the catchment area. In
addition, detailed linguistic work emphasizes significant differences and unique characteristics.
However, there are certain similarities in language and beliefs as well as originally similar material
cultures and these are key elements in the formulation of the project.
4.   The Vietic I Group, which consists of Atel (16), Themarou (30+) and Mlengbrou (9), have been
described as populations "on the verge of extinction". These groups could not survive as unique ethnic
identities without inter-marrying with other Vietic groups, something which they, no doubt, have been
doing over the past centuries. It would be difficult, if not virtually impossible, to "preserve" these cultures



Page 24
in the state they are in or returning them to a previous state of cultural isolation. However, there is reason
to believe that the majority of the Vietic groups are flexible and can adapt to sedentary agriculture as is
the case with Group IV (Ahao, Ahlao, Liha, Phong and Toum) who combine swidden and paddy
cultivation and Group I (Themarou) which have recently taken up paddy cultivation on their own
initiative near Ban Vang Chang on the Nam Theun.
5.   Another characteristic of the Vietic groups that makes them distinct from the other ethnic
minorities in the catchment area is their knowledge of the forest. They rely on the forest for much of
their food (protein and starches) and therefore have a wealth of knowledge about this environment. There
are two points to be made here that could combine traditional knowledge and development in constructive
ways. The first deals with recording and analyzing the local knowledge about the environment.
Knowledge about plants especially could prove to be valuable for alternative food sources and materials
and for medicine. This work would combine the skills of an anthropologist and a botanist or NTFP
specialist in the field and could become an important activity in the overall development of some Vietic
sites. The second point also concerns their knowledge of the forest and their potential to turn that
knowledge into use for conservation. The Vietic groups are most suited as guides and could be trained to
work as conservationists and rangers in the NBCA. Both these developments could help to preserve the
intimate relationship the Vietic groups have with their environment and at the same time integrate them
into the wider socioeconomic reality surrounding them. Rather than "preserve", one should be thinking in
terms of "development" on both cultural and other levels.
The Brou
6.   The Brou represent a far more homogeneous group, sharing a similar language, material culture
and agricultural methods, than the Vietic groups. They are the most numerous (approximately 700
households in all three watersheds) and are experiencing a dramatic increase in population, especially in
the Thapaiban area, which is threatening their livelihood based on swidden cultivation of dry rice. The
Brou, however, are an ethnic group which extends from Vietnam to the plains surrounding Thakhek, and
as a group use a wide range of agricultural methods ranging from heavy reliance on the forests for food
and income (in parts of the NBCA) to paddy cultivators similar to the lowland Lao. There is also much
variation in cultural and religious practices from animism along the northern stretches of the Nam Theun
to a mixture of Buddhism and traditional practices in the Gnommalath and Mahaxai areas. The degree to
which the Brou language is used also varies from "pure" Brou speakers along the Vietnamese border to
the Brou on the Nakai Plateau who have lost or are in the process of losing their language. Most of the
Brou are bilingual.
7.   Few problems are foreseen in relation to the cultural identity of the Brou with regard to agricultural
improvement such as developing paddy. The real challenge is to prepare for the projected population
increase in-situ (the Brou population is predominantly young, many of whom have yet to reach
reproductive age) and the threat that will have on the environment. This can only be met by a
combination of improved health-care, including family planning, education, a more intensive land usage
(mostly paddy development), and development of alternative cash incomes (livestock, NTFPs, etc.). It
should be reiterated that alternative livelihoods such as these pose no threat to the cultural integrity of the
Brou who are a highly adaptive group.
The Tai-Sek Groups
8.   The Tai-Sek groups are the most similar to the dominant lowland Lao and are classified, for the
most part, as lao lum (lowland Lao) due to their similar languages and tradition of cultivating paddy
whenever possible. It is estimated that there are approximately 80 households in Nam Noy watershed.



Page 25
Technologically, these groups are the most advanced with many already possessing irrigation systems
and some being able to produce two crops of rice per annum. In addition, because of similar cultural
values to the dominant Lao, most are well-integrated into the social and political fabric of the nation state.
9.   Similar to the situation with the Brou, as outlined above, no immediate threat to cultural integrity in
the proposed integration and development of agriculture is foreseen. Although these groups are indeed
classified as "ethnic minorities", they share many of the same cultural traits with the dominant culture.
The emphasis here would be on improving techniques that would enable these groups to become less
reliant on swidden and a general improvement of lifestyle through education and health-care programs.
Overallproject strategy in relation to Ethnicity
10.  All of the different ethnic groups of the project area qualify as "indigenous" according to the
Bank's Operational Directive 4.20. Improving the lifestyles of these communities by providing better
access to markets, improved healthcare and education, and developing more sustainable agricultural
methods and food security can only help to preserve these groups. One must take into account the
negative situation of a declining resource base, an increasing population, and the threat of expanding
market forces that could very well threaten the livelihoods of these communities. By providing these
indigenous communities with the means to participate in the nation's development on equal terms with
the dominant culture, they would have better chances of retaining aspects of cultural identity. Special
emphasis would be given to the Vietic groups who have suffered from forced relocation and often too
hasty attempts at integrating them into villages and sedentary agricultural lifestyles. However, the
premise of the project is that the basic strategy be the same for all groups: culturally-sensitive and gradual
integration into social and economic activities that would allow for increased food security, a more
sustainable livelihood and a greater participation in national development.



Page 26
Annex 3
Lao PDR: District Upland Development and Conservation Project
Estimated Project Costs
Local        Foreign     Total
--------------US $ million--------
Agriculture Support                                  0.19          0.41       0.60
Social Support                                       0.06          0.07       0.13
Conservation Support and Awareness                   0.10          0.12       0.22
Institutional Strengthening & Monitoring and Evaluation  0.21      0.74       0.95
Total                                                0.56          1.34       1.89
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                             0.05         0.14        0.19
Price Contingencies                                0.12         0.04        0.16
Total Project Cost                                   0.73          1.52       2.25



Page 27
Annex 4
Lao PDR: District Upland Development and Conservation Project
Economic Analysis
Cost-effectiveness analysis. The project will test an approach to improving food security and
livelihoods of upland farmers, provide a minimum package of social services and simultaneously
protect the NBCA through effective management of natural resources. Costs may be compared
with alternative means of reaching these objectives.
The alternatives against which the above approach is to be compared would be: (a) govermnent
regulatory management which prohibits villagers from expanding cultivation onto forest land; (b)
the policy of reducing shifting cultivation by moving people to focal villages in lowland areas;
and (c) consolidating villages to provide basic healthcare/schooling at the larger villages. These
approaches have not been very successful. It is impossible to effectively patrol the large and
remote upland areas and the experience with resettling shifting cultivators has not been good.
Providing new housing and other infrastructure is costly and lands available for allocation have
not always been productive. In many cases, people failed to find improved livelihoods and
moved back . Now, the government is re-evaluating their rural development approach and is
willing to compare cost and benefits with the Bank-assisted LIL project and other upland
development projects in Laos.
The LIL is designed to be as low cost as possible. There has been a concerted effort to
demonstrate an alternative that would not only be effective but also affordable to GOL. To this
end the project encompasses: (a) agriculture/livelihood approach to be tried in a few pilot villages
that are strategically chosen instead of having large-scope project; (b) local technical assistance
(TA) is used wherever possible instead of international TA, (c) existing government staff and
structures are employed for project implementation (with minimal additional staff in Project
Implementation Unit/Project Office for coordination), (d) daily allowances (DA) are set at
existing government levels (instead of the unsustainable high levels used in many donor-assisted
projects); and (e) a minimum package of improved social services is provided for all villages in
the project area based on the government's existing approach with village health and education
volunteers and will focus on preventive healthcare services and non-formal education.
Cost-benefit analysis. During implementation of the LIL, statistical data on project economic
impact would be collected. This will allow standard economic analysis of costs and benefits to
be carried out for a potential follow-up project involving larger scale investment.



Page 28
Annex 5
Financial Summary
(Generally Not Applicable to LILs)



Page 29
Annex 6
Lao PDR: District Upland Development and Conservation Project
Procurement, Financial Management, and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Goods and Works will be procured in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999 (the Guidelines).
Procurement of consultants would be done according to the provisions of the "Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
All consultant assignments will follow the Bank 's Standard Request for Proposals dated July 1997 and
revised April 1998.
Works. Civil works of US$0.068 million would be required in the project to support minor office
renovation, construction of simple village dispensaries, primary schools, and housing for teachers and
staff, and agriculture demonstration trials. All the works are too small and scattered in remote areas to
attract foreign and national contractors. With prior agreement of IDA, these works, about US$50,000, in
individual assignments valued less than US$25,000, would be carried out by force account and
beneficiary participation arrangements to best use the local know-how, available materials, and labor. The
implementation of these minor works would be managed by the relevant District line agencies (e.g.,
agriculture and forestry, health, and education) with guidance from the District PO. Payments for these
works under force account and beneficiary participation arrangements would be based on outputs,
applying unit prices and quantity agreed annually by IDA. A unit cost database would be established
during project start-up with the assistance of the Chief Technical Advisor and agreed with the Bank and
maintained by the provincial PIU so that efficient, standardized unit price can be set for civil works. A
few small works (e.g., office renovation) less than or equal to US$10,000 up to an aggregate amount of
US$20,000 would be procured through lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.
Goods. Goods valued at US$0.281 million would be required for the project and comprises vehicles,
office equipment, agricultural inputs, medical supplies, field equipment and kits, and miscellaneous
materials. Given the small quantity and wide range of goods, packaging would not be practical. National
shopping would be used for goods for an aggregate amount of US$110,000. Under these procedures, at
least three quotations from qualified suppliers will be solicited. Vehicles would be procured through the
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization (IAPSO) for an aggregated amount of US$120,000.
International shopping for a short-band radio system and satellite image which are estimated to be around
US$50,000 in total would be procured through international shopping awarded on the basis of written
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers in two different countries.



Page 30
Services. Technical assistance (including training) valued at US$1.425 million would be procured in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to IDA, based on the Guidelines for the Selection
of Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999). All consulting assignments of $200,000 and over would be advertised in the
Development Business. For small contracts less than US$100,000, selection based on consultant's
qualifications procedures would be used.
Miscellaneous - Incremental Operating Costs. Incremental operating costs for about US$0.215 million
including contingencies related to supervision, monitoring and evaluation, incremental operation and
maintenance of vehicles and equipment, office and field supplies, project-related travel expenses and
field allowances, and incremental salaries would be covered by the project. Procurement of these
services and goods will follow Government regulations in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to IDA.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
No contracts for works and goods are expected to exceed US$200,000. However, the first two contracts
for goods and the first two contracts for works in each year of project implementation would require prior
review and approval. Prior review threshold for consultant services will be US$100,000 for consulting
firms and US$50,000 for individuals. All terms of reference, sole-source contracts, or contracts of a
special nature for consultant services would be subject to prior review. That would cover all services
contracts, representing 100 percent of services by value. These arrangements would ensure prior review
by IDA of about 70 percent of the project expenditures. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post
review by Bank supervision missions.
Financial Management
A review of the accounting and financial management arrangements at Khammouane Province was
carried out by the Bank during project preparation. The conclusion is that the Provincial Finance Office
(PFO) has the basic framework for handling the accounting and disbursement aspects of the Project. The
PFO is well organized and budgeting, accounting, disbursement, and reporting functions are handled by
experienced staff. In accordance with the French accounting principles, there is a clear separation of
duties relating to commitment, payment and recording of Government expenditures. This separation of
responsibilities is a central piece of the whole Government accounting system.
Project Account Staffing. A PIU with a financial management section has already been established and
project accountant appointed with responsibility for designing the project accounting system. The district
PO also has been established with a staff assigned from the District Finance Office to be in charge of
finances and accounting. The provincial PIU would recruit a cashier and an assistant accountant prior to
project start-up. This level of staffmg would be adequate to handle the estimated $250,000 per annum to
be disbursed for local expenditures through the Special Account. The PIU will be responsible for all
accounting. The PO will receive a petty cash float for local expenditures not to exceed $800 a month.
The petty cash will be reconciled monthly.



Page 31
Accounting Procedures Manual. A draft accounting procedures manual has been developed which
include:
*  A clear set of procedures for authorizing payment and recording expenditures. The procedures
are identified separately for payments via the bank and petty cash.
*  Policies and procedures for local purchasing with identification of levels of approval for ranges
of purchase order value.
*  Procedures for inventory control.
*  Accounting procedures for month-end closing and the basic reports and reconciliation to be
produced for review and approval by the Project Director and the Head of PFO.
The Accounts Department would maintain the following Books of Prime Entry:
* Check Disbursement Journal, separately for each Bank Account.
* Petty Cash Book, separately for PIU and the PO
* Purchase Order Journal
* General Journal
The General Ledger would be organized based on GOL standard Chart of Account. The Chart of
Account will also incorporate sufficient detail to allow analysis of project expenditures by project
components and sub-components to facilitate reporting to the Bank.
Financial Management and Reports. The PIU will prepare an annual budget suitably analyzed for project
management. The budget will identify quarterly financial and physical targets for progress monitoring
and variance analysis. The budget will also include a six-month cash forecast which will be updated
quarterly.
The following standard reports will be produced at the end of each month for control purposes.
i.    Trial Balance
ii.    Sources and Uses of Funds
iii.   Project Income and Expenditure Statement
iv.    Bank Reconciliation Statements
v.    Petty Cash Reconciliation Statement and Cash Count Reconciliation
vi.   Procurement Management Reports
At the end of each quarter, reports (ii), (iii), and (vi) will be submitted to IDA as part of the PMR
requirements. The Bank would assist the PIU, during the project launch workshop, to generate additional
PMR reports.
Withdrawal Applications and Statement of Expenditures Procedures
A major portion of the Credit, about US$1.4 million for technical assistance and training, will be
disbursed through Direct Payment upon the authorization of the PIU. In preparing the withdrawal
application for the direct disbursement, the consulting firm should submit an invoice to the PIU with



Page 32
details of the fees and expenses and with all supporting documents. The PIU would carry out the
following routines before approval and submission of withdrawal applications:
* Review and check timesheets of all the foreign and local consultants included in the invoice;
* Review and verify all expense claims with reference to supporting documents and eligibility of
expenditure for reimbursement; and
* Ensure that all charges are incurred for project purposes and in accordance with the Contract
Agreement.
The above would be prepared by the Project Accountant. The withdrawal application with all supporting
documents would be submitted to the Project Director and the Head of PFO for review and approval and
to the Vice Governor for signature.
The reimbursement of all local expenditures and any foreign expenditure to be paid out the Special
Account would be subject to Statement of Expenditures (SOE) procedures described in the Disbursement
Section below.
A copy of all withdrawal application would be sent to the Foreign Currency Affairs Department of MOF.
This Departnent would review ex-post all withdrawal applications for accuracy and conformity with IDA
disbursement procedures and ensure that any discrepancies are dealt with in a timely manner by the PIU.
The Department will also carry out ex-post reviews of supporting documentation kept at the PIU.
Auditing Arrangements
An annual audit of the project financial statements including the project account, SOEs and supporting
documentation, and the Special Account would be carried out by an external independent auditor
acceptable to IDA. Selection of the Auditor would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C):
Disbursement of the loan proceeds would be made as follows:
*  90% of the total cost of civil works;
*  100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for equipment;
materials, and vehicles; 90% of local expenditures for other locally procured items;
*  100% of total expenditures for technical assistance, training, and consultant services; and
*  95% for incremental operating expenditures.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Expenditures for goods, works, services, training, and incremental operating costs for which prior review
by the Bank is not required will be disbursed against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursement
for works carried out under force account and beneficiary participation arrangements would be made
against statements of physical progress achieved at each site by unit prices agreed with IDA at the start of



Page 33
the project and subject to annual review. This system will be established with assistance from the Chief
Technical Advisor and the Bank's procurement officer. The relevant documents in support of SOE will
be retained by the PIU and PO and would be made available to the appropriate auditors and IDA
supervision missions. These documents must be retained until at least one year after IDA has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the credit account is made.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account (SA) in US dollars would be opened at a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA in the amount of US$80,000, equivalent to expenditures for civil works, goods, and
operating costs for four months of project implementation period. However, the authorized allocation
would be limited to an amount equivalent to $40,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
credit plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments is equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$160,000. The TA portion of the credit would be disbursed through direct payments by IDA.
Application for the replenishment of the SA would be submitted monthly or when the amounts withdrawn
to 30 percent of the initial deposit, whichever comes first. In line with GOL's decentralization policy, the
SA would be managed by Khammouane Province Government who would be responsible for authorizing
the establishment of the SA and approving signature authority. The Khammouane PIU would be
responsible for payments and for preparation and signing of withdrawal and replenishment requests to the
Bank for ex-post review. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) would have overall supervision and
monitoring responsibility.
The project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2002 and the Credit is expected to be closed on
September 30, 2002.



Page 34
Annex 6: Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method                 (including
contingencies)
ICB       NCB         Other      N.B.F
1. Works
0.068                   0.068
(0.061)                 (0.061)
2. Goods
0.281                   0.281
(0.281)                 (0.281)
3. Services
1.425                   1.425
(1.425)                 (1.425)
4. Miscellaneous
0.23        0.247       0.477
(0.23)      (0.0)       (0.23)
Total
2.00        0.247       2.25
(2.00)      (0.0)       (2.00)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes recurrent costs, local labor and in-kind contribution, and
taxes and duties which would be financed by government and beneficiaries). Other procurement
methods include (a) force account, beneficiary participation, and direct contracting for small
works, (b) international shopping for telecommunication equipment and satellite images, (c) UN-
IAPSO for vehicles, (d) national shopping for computers and other office equipment, agricultural
inputs, medical supplies, field equipment and kits, and miscellaneous materials, and (e)
procurement of consultants and training.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA credit
iFor details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD1 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table
A, where applicable).



Page 35
Annex 6: Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method                                               Total Cost
Consultant                                                                  (including
Services                                                                 contingencies)
Expenditure
Category
QCBS      QBS      SFB      LCS      CQ      Other  N.B.F.
A. Firms         1.382                                                          1.38
(1.38)                                                         (1.38)
B. Individuals
O.O45'                     0.045
(0.045)                    (0.045)
Total            1.38                               0.045                       1.425
(1.38)                             (0.045)                     (1.425)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  = Least-Cost Selection
CQ   = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F.    = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
2 Technical assistance and training package valued at US$1.41 million
' Independent monitoring and evaluation valued at US$O.045 million



Page 36
Annex 6: Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review4
Expenditure          Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)             Method              Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $                                    US $ millions
1. Works
Village-level            < 25,000              FA/Community
Participation
Provincial/District      < 25,000              FA/DC                   First Contract
2. Goods
Vehicles                 N/A                  IAPSO                         0.00
Telecommunication        < or = 50,000        Int'l Shopping                0.00
System & Satellite
Images
Others                   < 50,000             Nat'l Shopping           First Contract
3. Services
T/A & Training           > 200,000             QCBS                         1.38
Monitoring &             < 50,000              CQ                           0.00
Evaluation and Audits
4. Miscellaneous
Operating Costs          N/A                   N/A                          0.00
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   1.38+
4 Thresholds generaDly differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation"
and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Page 37
Annex 6: Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category     Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
1. Civil Works                     0.06             90%
2. Goods                           0.25             100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost); and
90% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
3. Consultants' Services           1.29             100%
(incl. Training, Audits)
TA                              1.05
Training                        0.24
4. Incremental Operating costs     0.20             95%
5. Unallocated                     0.20
Total                           2.00



Page 38
Annex 7
Lao PDR: District Upland Development and Conservation Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Project Schedule                                 Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              7/1998               7/1/1998
Appraisal mission departure                      12/1998             1/20/1999
Negotiations                                     1/1999              2/10/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   3/1/1999             _/_/19_
Prepared by: Staff of Ministry of Agriculture & Rural Development; Khammouane Province
and Nakai District.
Preparation assistance: Japanese PHRD and New Zealand Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Susan Shen                                Environment/Task Team Leader
Kathryn Cherrie                           Task Team Assistant
Chantra Chinnakorn                        Procurement
Ann Clark                                 Monitoring and Evaluations
Evelyn Cowan                              Task Team Assistant
Omowumni Ladipo                           Financial Management/Disbursement
Gaye Lindsey                              Disbursement
Lars Lund                                 Sociologist
John Raintree                             Farming Systems/Agroforestry
Arlene Reyes                              Task Team Assistant
Linda Schneider                           Institutions
Renganaden Soopramanien                   Country Lawyer
Zhong Tong                                Agriculture Economist
Roland van Asch                           Rural Development
Wijaya Wickrema                           Financial Management



Page 39
Annex 8
Lao PDR: District Upland Development and Conservation Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Manual
Dated Februaryl999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Back to Office Reports and Aide-Memoires-,July 1998; September/October 1998;
December 1998; January 1999
C. Other
•  Environment and Social Management Plan for Nakai-Nam Theun Catchment and Corridor
Areas-May 1998
*  Social Action Plan for the Nakai-Nam Theun Conservation Area - May 1998
*  Cultural Diversity and Socio-economic Development in the Context of Conservation -July
1997
*Including electronic files.



Page 40
Annex 9
Statement of World Bank Loans and Credit
As of 25-Jan-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual
Fiscal                                                                                             disbursements a/
Project ID   Year    Borrower             Purpose
IBRD     IDA    Cancellations  Undisbursed    Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 16
Active Projects
LA-PE-42237    1999   LAO PDR       LA-PROVIN. INFRAST.         0.00    27.80              0.00         29.08         .16       0.00
LA-PE-44973    1998                 SOUTHERN PROVINCE RE        0.00    34.70              0.00         36.10        1.12       0.00
LA-PE-4210      1997   LAO PDR      HIGHWAY IMPROV. III         0.00    48.00              0.00         40.64        7.24        0.00
LA-PE-4208      1996   LAO PDR      LAND TITLING                0.00    20.70              0.00         17.81        1.56       0.00
LA-PE-4200      1995   LAO PDR    HEALTH SYS. REF. & M          0.00    19.20              0.00         13.33        6.48       0.00
LA-PE-4196      1994   LAOS         FOREST MGT & CONSERV        0.00     8.70              0.00          6.44        6.26        0.00
LA-PE-4201      1994   LAOS         H'WAY IMPROVE II            0.00    30.00              0.00          5.05        2.44        0.00
LA-PE-4207      1994   LAO PDR      LUANG NAMTHA PROV DE        0.00     9.67              0.00          3.61         .21       0.00
LA-PE-4197      1993   LAO FDR      PROV'L GRID INTEGRAT        0.00    36.00              0.00          3.91        3.57        0.00
LA-PE-4203      1993   LAO PDR      EDUCATION DEVELOPMEN        0.00    19.00              0.00          9.29        4.45       0.00
Total                                                           0.00   253.77              0.00        165.26      33.49        0.00
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   90.86              301.97              392.83
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                 5.97                5.97
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  253.77              305.55              559.32
Amount sold                                        0.00                0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :               165.26               18.89              184.15
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Dec-98.



Page 41
Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Dec-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                                 IFC
FY Approval      Company       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998            SEF Endeavor       .15     0.00    0.00     0.00      .15     0.00    0.00    0.00
1998            SEF Settha        1.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     1.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:             1.15     0.00     0.00     0.00     1.15    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998            SEF BAFCO         1.10     0.00    0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    1.10     0.00     0.00    0.00



Page 42
Annex 10
Lao PDR at a Glance                                              9/29/98
POVERTY  nd OCCIAL                       L~~~ii~~M  tjiao    ASIA &  Lw
|  t000  -l      InPDRcPacih    Iome-    Development cflamon
Poriti:on\fflhQl;Q:;::41T:j;J4j;4i;; m*yeer: .0  ;ti:..14.80    1,7534    2048                  Life expectancy
~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~400                             970        5
Population (%)                           ~~~       ~~~       ~~~~~~~~2$  IA  21
Labtrforoe(%)                     0$                            0        0 4         ti}                              ;0 l 0 0; 0 0 ;00 0 0tXi40 4 tt- 1,4i;-i< ,'4  GNP  GroSs
per                    ~~~~~~prmary
Metrecentestl~ttat.afetest     vaIable~, 1t47)01147) 80iSt:;;0:.i?'40i'it000000080;'0000'i';f ;i0  capita       enrollment
Urban population00: (fe ottotalpoiaflo                          -32          28:
tLfe    expectancy t bkUi (y e   ;;  |   - t ti 00Ear   ti t;Dt t; t  i  53 - X \ t yl4 Xi; t; 00 69  59i
lnfanorw aI ~pr,0ilelh)98                                         38         78
Chlldmat(utrltOGotchdeituD7s)              4          1         81                Access to safe water
Access to safe water 193 iofppulatIon)  :   : : :'; ? :   t: g          420 30  84  71
Gross priryenrllent (% o1hoole pojp ulon  t          X107:   :  115|Q       01 ;\9S:       -Lao PDR
Male                                                 123       118w      100                   Low4ncome roup
KEY ECON0MlC R&fOM  ahd tOGTR    R#
Econormc ratios'
GOPi:i!:Q (IS bil io::         Ei;tA09 ; ttXi                               ;i-t0-n:s)000:000  ....... .... 1,8  1.9V t;t:S0Sqya 1  Ef.?W\AiT;
ossdof e      antR inveitment3DP                       8         30.5      28g7                     Trade
Exports of  goos  and servicelGO-I                      3.8      23.1      23.8
GOss domestIc savlngsJG3PO  !0 0: ;i i 0itttl;|tiiligE 0 Xi L    i     2.8  i t5000 i; 012.02 1:ZV.,   11 4A
Gross rndional ,aingsGOP1
C^urrenit acccouflbalaceGP:S $|0i:  Xf   X0  . -4.3i  -186                .Sl1-X:it:61&1Dres*  
interest payrmemt$omp                                  01         03        I                                    Investmnent
Total dibtIGDP1  .48.9 404                                      1210:i;     1,367    Savings
Totai                                                  13.2       8.8 7s     9 I
Pei oueefebVGOP ji: 0iil;ttt Xtii  :;; .    V:00t  j it 041.8;; XtX t,;0  i *- tlX;iit  XIndebtedness
(average annual ::    ;  :iit:00 197644  1987-97  199S      1997   1
GOP             ..     8.7      08  ~~~~~~                           -Lao PDR
GNpeprcapta                                    ... 4.0                                              i 3, 0  .  L-income group
Er~ort o godsand servics           .         .
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth ratesofoutput andinvesmrent(%F)
(% of GDPJ)s
Agriculture                                    ..        ..      53.1      52.1    10
Industry                                       ..       ..       21.0      21.4
Manufacturing                                 ..       ..      15.8       16.2
Services                                                         25.9      26.5
Private consumption                            .-    88.5          *-      81.4             92   93   94   95   96   97
General govemment consumption                   ..      8.6        ..       7.2               -G DI          -GDP
Imports of goods and services                   *-      7.7      41.7      41.1
1976-86  1987.97      1996      1997
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    ..       4.7       2.2       6.3
Industry                                       ..    13.7        17.1       6.6
Manufacturing                                 ..    14.9       19.0        6.2
Services                                       ..       5.8       9.1       9.5
Private consumption                            ..
General government consumption                  ..
Gross domestic investment                       ..
Imports of goods and services                   ..
Gross national product                          ..      6.7       6.8       6.6
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing,
the diamond will be incomplete.



IBRD 29998
B. Thd~~~~~~~~~~~~gO~~ ~                                                                                              LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
= Ho4,  B                                                                                                                                        DISTRICT UPLAND DEVELOPMENT
B. Lk                                                              ffi  r * ' t t    'AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
* P LOT PROJECT V JUAGES
,~ ~~~~~RSE   N -                                       A           /   -             '        X~ '-                                        |w                              ,.                                .n9s.lo ,0
ROADS
-   PAVED
IMPROVED EARTH
0 B. N.                                     _1                                 j-                                              DISTR CT BO'UNNAIKDARIES'  S  T  ST R
Lk -6   I                                                F   it,                                                                            PR   E      P    BOUNDARIES
,  t  'M,AM  DDlA   i  Z   , .~~~~~,-~ 
- - -  NTERNATIONAL BOUNDAR,ES
-  .                                                         U                               I          -                     RA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LVATIONS IN METERS  R VT0
'B'-  'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N K- 0/ ~
VIETNAMK-p
~>r'S~S~  [~Araiof MoIEp                                                                                                                                                                                                   NA  
THAILAND                                                                                         B. N.                                                                                                                    A
_ CAMB9?DIA   (             I7-4E
B. H.HgkE,,     B. Xi..gdo
IDS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TT'                                                                                                 V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARCFT979



