Report No. PID6855
Project Name                     Lao PDR-District Upland Development and (@)
Conservation Project Learning and Innovation
Loan
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Natural Resources Management (RM);
Other Agriculture (AY)
Project ID                       LAPE59305
Borrower                         The Lao People's Democratic Republic
Coordinating Agency              Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
Vientiane, Lao PDR
Contact Name: Mr. Phouang Parisak
Pravongviengkham
Deputy Permanent Secretary
Telephone No:    856-21-415364
Fax No.: 856-21-412344
Implementing Agency              Khammouane Province and Nakai District
Governments
Date this PID prepared           January 14, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         January 20, 1999
Board Date                       February 23, 1999
Country and Sector Background
1.      The Lao economy is characterized by subsistence agriculture, a weak human
resource base, and a small exporting sector consisting mainly of natural
resource products. The country is heavily dependent on its natural resource
base to provide a livelihood for the bulk of its population and to earn
foreign exchange (from hydropower and forestry). Consequently, the country's
extensive areas of relatively undisturbed forest which contain a rich
diversity of ecosystems and species and provides watershed protection
functions are under increasing threat. This is further exacerbated by the
incidence of poverty which is very high particularly in the rural areas where
over half of the Lao population live in small, scattered villages without
regular road transport, electricity, health facilities or access to safe
drinking water. A key objective of the Government's rural development program
is to reduce the practice of slash-and-burn agriculture which are prevalent in
upland and critical watershed areas. Around one-third of the population are
partially or wholly dependent on slash-and-burn farming, annually clearing and
planting 3,000 square kilometers of land to attain only poverty-level incomes.
2.      The Government attaches great importance to effective and sustainable
management of the country's natural resources, particularly in the upland
areas that are critical for watershed protection. To counter the increasing
loss of natural resources, the Government has initiated a number of policies
and program including the establishment of eighteen protected areas (called
National Biodiversity Conservation Areas) under Prime Minister Decree No. 164
(1993). Many of the NBCAs are located in upland and have communities residing
in or around the area. At present, these communities face severe poverty and



deterioration of their livelihood. The communities' main response to the
harsh conditions is further reliance and exploitation on forest products
through expanding swidden agriculture and collection of wildlife and forest
products for subsistence and cash income. Although the government's policy
through its rural development program is to resettle such groups into the
lowlands and more productive agricultural areas, the resettlement experiences
so far have not been good and many people have moved back to the original
upland areas.
3.      It is well-recognized internationally that interventions to conserve
biodiversity and critical upland watershed areas must be linked to rural
poverty reduction in those areas. Such approaches, however, are relatively
new and as yet unproven for the conservation of biologically important upland
areas in Laos and elsewhere. The challenge of the proposed project is to build
on the work that has already been done by IUCN and other donors and develop
and test environmentally sustainable and culturally appropriate poverty
reduction programs to improve the livelihoods of the enclave communities while
at the same time conserve the biodiversity of the NBCAs, and develop effective
and efficient systems to implement such programs
Project Objectives
4.      The overall development objective of the project is the adoption of more
intensified agricultural practices by farmers in the pilot areas as a means to
improve the livelihoods of local communities while at the same time conserve
the biodiversity of a high priority protected area. The experiences gained
and lessons learned from the LIL would provide timely inputs into the
implementation of the Government's new Rural Development Program, IDA's
proposed longer-term engagement in rural poverty alleviation and natural
resources management, and other donor-funded programs addressing natural
resources development and conservation in Lao PDR.
5.      A participatory M&E system has been developed and which would be refined
throughout implementation. The M&E would evaluate when sufficient lessons
have been learned to permit follow-on action.    A matrix of performance
indicators have been developed as part of the PM&E. In terms of impact
indicators, the three most important are:
- A significant increase in proportion of people in pilot villages and sample
of secondary villages that are aware of, understand, willing to try, trying
out, continuing to practice new agricultural techniques or some variant
thereof.
- Increase in basic literacy by at least 5-10 percentage points and numeracy
by 20 percentage points.
- No expansion of net area under shifting cultivation in pilot villages.
Project Description
6.      The Project would be implemented in the three upland sub-watershed zones
of Nakai Nam Theun National Biodiversity Conservation Area (NNT-NBCA) in Nakai
District--Navang Zone (Nam Mon), Thapaiban Zone (Nam Theun), and Teung Zone
(Nam Noy). The main focus of project activities would be on three pilot
villages--Ban Navang, Ban Mak Feuang, and Ban Teung. These pilot villages
- 2 -



were selected and agreed with Nakai District officials based on the following
criteria: (a) one from each of three upper sub-watershed (or Zone) of the
NNT-NBCA; (b) representative of two major production systems in the area
(e.g., swidden, swidden/paddy) which are being practiced by 85 percent of the
villages; (c) have at least 20 households; (d) accessible to Nakai District;
(e) have well-developed and cohesive community organization; and (f)
willingness to participate in the Project. Although agricultural
interventions linked to conservation would be piloted in these three villages,
the other 26 villages in the sub-watershed zones are expected to benefit from
the project through the social support component which will improve the basic
health and education delivery system that serves the entire Project Area.
7.      The project consists of four components as follows:
(a) Agriculture Support Component. Focusing on the three pilot villages,
this component would increase food security through provision of information
and development of simple technologies to test, demonstrate, improve, and
intensify production of paddy rice and supplementary food derived from home
gardens and to domesticate NTFP.
(b) Social Support Component. This component would improve the level of basic
health and education services throughout the three upper Zones (or sub-
watersheds) of the NBCAs. The health service would focus on raising awareness
of personal, family, and environmental hygiene and provision of basic health
facilities and supplies. The education service would focus on non-formal
education to provide basic literacy and numeracy, especially for women, and
the provision of additional basic primary education facilities and supplies.
(c) Conservation Support and Awareness Component. Focusing on the three pilot
villages, this component would elicit active participation of the villagers in
the sustainable management, use, and protection of biodiversity. The focus
would be on participatory processes to developing a village land and resource
use plan, increasing community awareness of the constraints and opportunities
of the natural resource base, and village participation in protection and
monitoring of valuable biodiversity within their village administrative and
spiritual territory.
(d) Institutional Strengthening and Monitoring and Evaluation Component. This
component would improve the management and technical skills of staff to
implement activities at the provincial-, district-, and village-levels. It
would also test whether the current administrative implementation mechanism
and decentralization process are enhancing delivery of services to
beneficiaries and the extent to which village organizations have the capacity
to absorb these services. A simple and practical monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) system would be established to ensure timely qualitative and
quantitative feedback on project implementation to make needed corrections.
In addition, regular meetings at the village, district, and provincial-level
would be organized to ensure that implementation experiences and lessons are
documented and disseminated and considered for application in other government
programs by the Government's rural development committees at various levels.
Project Financing
8.      Total project cost is US$2.25 million with US$2.0 million from IDA.
- 3 -



Component          Category        Indicative          W of     Bank-     W of
Cost Incl.          Total    financing Bank
Contingencies                (US$M)    financing
(US$M)
0.70                31        0.60      30
Agriculture        Building/
Support            Physical
Institutions
Social Support     Building/       0.17                 7        0.10       5
Physical
Conservation       Institutions    0.26                  12      0.21       11
Support and        Building/
Awareness          Other
Institutions
Institutional       Institutions    1.12                  50      1.09        54
Strengthening &     Building/
Monitoring &        Project
Evaluation         Management
Total      2.25                  100     2.00          100
Project Implementation
9.     The Lao People's Democratic Republic (GOL) would be the Borrower.
Khammouane Province Government would have overall management responsibility in
line with GOL decentralization policy. In addition to the Development Credit
Agreement, there would be a separate Project Agreement between IDA and
Khammouane Province. Although Provincial authorities would have overall
coordination responsibility, most of the project activities would be
implemented by Nakai District authorities with technical support and advice
from the Province and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry at the central-
level.
10.    At the provincial-level, the existing Provincial Rural Development
Committee (PRDC), with some additional people, would serve as the Provincial
Project Steering Committee (PPSC). The Vice-Governor of Khammouane Province
would be chairman of the PPSC. A small administrative office, the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), consisting of a Provincial Project Director (PPD),
Accountant/Disbursement Officer, Procurement Officer, Monitoring and
Evaluation Officer, and Secretary would be established and attached to the
Vice Governor's office to coordinate project activities and assist the PPD.
11.     At the district-level, a District Rural Development Committee (DRDC)
would be established to serve as the District Project Steering Committee
(DPSC) with the Nakai District Vice-Governor as the chairman. A small
administrative office, the Project Office (PO), would be established and
attached to the District Vice Governor's office consisting of a District
- 4 -



Project Director (DPD), an Accountant/Bookkeeper, Procurement/Monitoring
Officer, and Clerk/Secretary to assist the DPSC in management and monitoring.
At both provincial and district levels, actual field implementation would be
carried out by the staff of the relevant agencies (i.e., PAFO/DAFO, NBCA,
PEO/DEO, PHO/DHO, PFO/DFO, mass organizations, etc.). To ensure that the
experiences and lessons learned from the project are fed back to the
government's programs, the central-level Rural Development Committee (RDC),
with some additions, would be the project's central-level steering committee.
12.    At the field and village-level, a site management team consisting of an
NBCA staff with support from one or two local consultants would be established
and located at each of the three pilot villages to coordinate activities in
these villages as well as in the three sub-watersheds of the Project Area.
The site management would work closely with the Village Head and Village
Committees in training villagers and facilitate implementation of project
field activities. Technical support would be provided by field extension
teams comprising of PAFO/DAFO staff with expertise in forestry and
agriculture.
Project Sustainability
13.     The Project would increase the capacity of provincial and district staff
and local organizations to implement poverty alleviation programs in the
context of biodiversity conservation. It would undertake institution building
and strengthen existing government linkages among provincial and local
government agencies, between them and the local organizations such as the Lao
Women's Union. Greater involvement of the local population living within the
Nakai-Nam Theun NBCA in the planning and use of the natural resources will be
key to promoting sustainability. The technical support and income enhancement
activities that will be developed is meant to be replicable and thus have the
potential to sustain livelihood in other areas with similar conditions in Lao
PDR.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
14.     The general conclusion of the 1995 and 1998 Lao Country Portfolio
Performance Reviews were that: (a) projects focusing on one or few key
objectives, and where interventions were limited in geographic area have the
best chance of success; (b) the capacity to plan, coordinate and implement
projects is very weak, especially at the local levels, and there is a high
degree of fragmentation of service delivery; (c) unrealistic, over-optimistic
expectations at the design phase, and lack of consultation and participation
of local stakeholders during preparation have also been factors contributing
to less than successful implementation; and (d) poor communication and
infrastructure, especially in upland areas is a major constraint to service
delivery. In addition, disbursement has been slow due to centrally-controlled
flow of funds, with bottlenecks and cumbersome procedures and lack of adequate
accounting systems and personnel at both national and local levels.
15.     From the lessons mentioned above, the Project limits the geographic scope
to selected villages in one district; focuses on strengthening of local
(district and provincial) capacity for delivery of appropriate agriculture and
basic social services; keeps the implementation procedures simple, within the
existing organizational set-up; improves outreach and coordination of
interventions through community centers in strategically located villages;
- 5 -



ensures project funds will be controlled and managed at the provincial-level;
builds on an iterative process approach, with relative low expectations in
implementation but emphasizing capacity building aspects; builds on the
extensive consultation that has been ongoing as part of other project
preparation, complemented with extensive consultation with provincial and
district government agencies and mass organizations.
Poverty Category
16.     Program of targeted interventions.   The agriculture and conservation
components of the project will benefit villagers in 3 pilot villages, all
classified as living below poverty level. The other 26 villages in the upper
watershed area will benefit from social support services--basic health care
and basic education. The project also incorporates specific measures to
safeguard the interests of ethnic minorities.
Environmental Aspects
17.     The project is classified as a category "C" project since the investment
is small and mainly financing technical assistance and training. It is also
supporting development of sustainable upland livelihood programs taking
specific environmental and ethnic characteristics into consideration. By and
large, positive environment impacts are expected through enlisting the support
of local communities in protection and providing alternatives to unsustainable
exploitation of the natural resources in the area. The population in the
project area consists of a number of different ethnic minority groups, all of
whom are considered indigenous to the area. In accordance to O.D. 4.20, a
Social Action Plan and socio-cultural diversity study have been completed.
Program Objective Categories
18.     Environmentally Sustainable Development (EN); Poverty Reduction (PA)
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 22, 1999.
- 6 -



