Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3186 LA
Project Agreement
(District Upland Development and Conservation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
KHAMMOUANE PROVINCE
Dated July 15, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER  3186-LA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 1999  between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and KHAMMOUANE PROVINCE (KHAMMOUANE 
PROVINCE).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between Lao People’s Democratic Republic (the Borrower) and the 
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million five hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,500,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that Khammouane Province agrees to undertake such obligations 
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Khammouane Province, in consideration of the Association’s 
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has 
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
Page  2
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Khammouane Province declares its commitment to 
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and technical 
practices, and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and, except as the Association and Khammouane Province shall 
otherwise agree, Khammouane Province shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Khammouane Province shall carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, Khammouane Province shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and furnish 
to the Association, not later 
than six (6) months before the Closing Date or 
such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and 
Khammouane Province, a plan designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of 
the Project’s objectives; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with 
Khammouane Province on said 
plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Khammouane Province shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the 
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
Khammouane Province shall promptly inform the Association of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit, or the performance by Khammouane Province of its obligations 
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Khammouane Province shall maintain, or cause to 
be maintained, records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project of its corresponding departments 
Page  3
or agencies responsible for carrying out the Project, or any part 
thereof.
(b) 
Khammouane Province shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for 
each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six (6) months after 
the end of each such Fiscal Year, the report of such 
audit 
by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and 
accounts, and the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, Khammouane Province shall carry out a time-bound 
action plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its 
financial management system for the Project in order to enable the 
Khammouane Province, not later than December 31, 2000, or such later date 
as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, Khammouane Province shall prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the 
Page  4
Association and of Khammouane Province thereunder shall terminate on the 
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify Khammouane Province of 
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Khammouane Province:
Governor of Khammouane Province
Khammouane Province
Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of Khammouane Province, may be taken or executed by Governor of 
Khammouane Province, or such other person or persons as Governor of 
Khammouane Province shall designate in writing, and Khammouane Province 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and 
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America as of the day and year first above written.
Page  5
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Authorized Representative
KHAMMOUANE PROVINCE
By /s/ Vanvang Rattanavong
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised 
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, subject to 
the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A, (the 
“Guidelines”), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines the references to “Bank 
member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references 
to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”, respectively.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
A short-band radio system and satellite images shall be procured 
under a contract awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Except as provided in paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Part, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles shall be procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement 
Services Organization (IAPSO) in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  6
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Except as provided in paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Part, works shall 
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
5.
Force Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines, and estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per 
contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be carried out by 
force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the 
Guidelines.
6.
Community Participation
Works estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract, 
may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association and specified in the Project Implementation Manual.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance in any Fiscal Year of any invitations to bid 
for contracts, a proposed annual procurement plan for the Project for the 
Fiscal Year shall be furnished to the Association, for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such annual procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
Subject to the provisions of the following sub-paragraphs, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to the first two contracts for goods 
and the first two contracts for works in each Fiscal Year.
(b)
If either of the contracts referred to in the preceding 
sub-paragraph is to be procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Part B.1, B.2, B.4 or B.6 of this Section I, the following 
review procedures shall apply with respect to the contract:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution 
of any contract under 
shopping or small works 
procedures, Khammouane Province shall provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
Page  7
shopping or small works 
procedures, Khammouane Province 
shall provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 
2 of this Part A, (the “Consultant Guidelines”) and (b) the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”, 
respectively.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for audits, and monitoring and evaluation under Part D of 
the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants in any Fiscal Year of any 
requests for proposals, a proposed annual plan for the selection of 
consultants under the Project for the Fiscal Year shall be furnished to 
the Association, for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. 
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such annual selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Page  8
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Khammouane Province shall maintain, until completion of the 
Project: 
(a) 
the Provincial Project Steering Committee chaired by the 
Vice-Governor of Khammouane Province, and whose composition and terms of 
reference shall be acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for 
the overall coordination and general oversight of the activities of the 
Project at the provincial level; and
(b)
the Project Implementation Unit attached to the office of 
the Vice-Governor of Khammouane Province, and consisting of suitably 
qualified and experienced officials in adequate numbers, including a 
Provincial Project Director, an accountant/disbursement officer, a 
procurement officer, a monitoring and evaluation officer and a secretary, 
to be responsible for day-to-day coordination and supervision of the 
Project at the provincial level.
2.
Khammouane Province shall take steps to ensure that Nakai District 
shall maintain, until completion of the Project:
(a)
the District Project Steering Committee chaired by the 
Vice-Governor of Nakai District, and whose composition and terms of 
reference shall be acceptable to the Association,  to be responsible for 
the overall coordination and general oversight of the activities of the 
Project at the district level;
(b) 
the Project Office attached to the office of the 
Page  9
Vice-Governor of Nakai District, and consisting of suitably qualified and 
experienced officials in adequate numbers, including a District Project 
Director, an accountant/book-keeper, a procurement/monitoring officer and 
a clerk/secretary, to be responsible for day-to-day coordination and 
supervision of the Project at the district level. 
3.
Khammouane Province shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than May 15 and 
November 15 of each year, beginning on November 15, 1999, a semi-annual 
progress report, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the six month 
period preceding the date of said report, and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the six month period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association each of the reports referred to 
in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of each of the said reports and the Association’s views 
on the matter.
4.
Khammouane Province shall:
(a)
not later than July 31 of each year, beginning on July 31, 
1999,
prepare and furnish to the Association, for its review and 
comments, an annual work plan, financial plan and procurement schedule 
for the Project for the forthcoming Fiscal Year;
(b)
not later than September 30, 1999, develop and furnish to 
the Association a detailed monitoring plan, for its review and comments, 
including mechanisms to disseminate experiences and promote replication 
of activities financed under the Project; and proceed thereafter to 
implement such monitoring plan, taking into accounts such comments as may 
have been made thereon by the Association.
5.
Khammouane Province shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
procedures set out in the Project Implementation Manual and, except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any 
provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project.
