Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3186 LA
Development Credit Agreement
(District Upland Development and Conservation Project)
between
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 15, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3186 LA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 1999, between LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project; and
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Khammouane Province with 
the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to Khammouane Province the proceeds of the Credit as 
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of 
even date herewith between the Association and Khammouane Province;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) with the modifications set forth below (the 
“General Conditions”) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
a new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set 
forth below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said 
Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
“Participating Country” means any country that the 
Association determines meets the  requirements set forth in Section 10 of 
Resolution No. 183 of the Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996; and “Participating Countries” means, collectively, 
all such countries.”; and
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a 
Participating 
Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories;  or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to 
the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United 
Nations.”
(c)
paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is 
modified to read as follows:
“(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, its cost and 
the benefits derived and 
to be derived from it, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Development Credit.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement, have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the 
following additional terms, wherever used in this Agreement, have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"BCEL" means the Borrower's Banque du Commerce Extérieur 
Lao;
(b)
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12)-month period beginning 
on October 1 in any calendar year and ending on September 30 in the 
calendar year next following;
(c)
“Khammouane Province” means the Borrower’s Province of 
Khammouane, an administrative sub-division of the Borrower, and such term 
Page  3
includes any successor thereto;
(d)
“Nakai District” means the Borrower’s District of Nakai, an 
administrative sub-division of Khammouane Province, and such term 
includes any successor thereto;
(e)
“NBCA” means a National Biodiversity Conservation Area 
designated as such by the Borrower in the  territory of the Borrower;
(f)
“Pilot Villages” means the villages of Ban Navang, Ban Mak 
Feuang and Ban Teung, located in the Project Area;
(g)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and Khammouane Province of even date herewith, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(h)
“Project Area” means an area comprising the following three 
upland sub-watershed zones of the Nakai Nam Theun NBCA of the Nakai 
District: namely, Navang Zone (Nam Mon), Thapaiban Zone (Nam Theun) and 
Teung Zone (Nam Noy);
(i)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Project 
Implementation Manual, dated February 5, 1999, adopted by Khammouane 
Province, and giving details of all procurement and disbursement 
arrangements, performance indicators and other technical, administrative 
and financial provisions, as shall have been agreed with the Association 
for purposes of the Project, including provisions designed to address the 
concerns and priorities of ethnic minorities in the Project Area, and to 
avoid or mitigate the potential adverse effects brought about by the 
Project upon such minorities; as same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation 
Manual; and
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and 
maintain in BCEL on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2002, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
Page  4
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual 
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing 
September 15, 2009 and ending March 15, 2039. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on March 15, 2019 shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
Page  5
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 2.09. Khammouane Province is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause 
Khammouane Province to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all of the obligations of Khammouane Province therein 
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable Khammouane Province to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. For purposes of carrying out the Project, the 
Borrower shall make available the entire proceeds of the Credit to 
Khammouane Province on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association
.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that 
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Khammouane Province 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements 
Page  6
of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with 
sound accounting 
practices, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures are retained until at least one 
year 
after the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was 
made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section 
and those for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year the report of such audit by 
said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to 
whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
Khammouane Province shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that Khammouane Province will be 
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
Page  7
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within 
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: namely, that 
Khammouane Province has selected, in accordance with Section II of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, the auditors referred to in Article 
III of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Khammouane Province, and is legally binding upon Khammouane Province 
in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, 
the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box No. 46
Vientiane
Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFINANCE
4369
VIENTIANE
MOF LS
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Page  8
By /s/ Vanvang Rattanavong
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
50,000
90% 
(2)
Goods
      200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) 
and 90% of local
expenditures for 
other items 
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
      950,000
100% 
services, training
and audits
(4)
Operating costs
      150,000
95%
(5)
Unallocated
      150,000
     ________
    1,500,000
TOTAL
    =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
Page  9
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating 
costs incurred under the Project on account of (i) salaries of local 
staff on contract, travel costs and allowances, (ii) operation and 
maintenance of vehicles and equipment, and (iii) office rent, supplies, 
utilities and communications charges.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a) goods and works, except for the first two contracts for goods and 
works in each Fiscal Year, (b) operating costs, (c) training,  (d) 
consultants’ services under contracts awarded to consulting firms valued 
at less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (e) consultants’ services 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants valued at less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to promote the adoption of 
diversified agricultural practices by farmers in the Project Area with a 
view to improving the livelihoods of local communities, whilst at the 
same time assisting in biodiversity conservation in a high priority 
protected area.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Agriculture Support
Carrying out of a program to test and introduce agricultural 
technologies designed to develop sustainable productive farming systems, 
including:
(a)
implementation of a village mobilization and resource 
mapping exercise, using participatory appraisal tools, to identify and 
establish farmer interest groups, and select farmers to develop and 
conduct agricultural demonstration trials; and 
(b)
provision of (i) technical advisory services and training to 
build capacity of district and provincial agriculture and forestry staff 
to provide extension services, and (ii) training to selected farmers in 
the Pilot Villages to carry out demonstration trials.
Part B:
Social Support
1.
Carrying out of a program designed to improve the level of basic 
education, especially for women, including (a) construction or 
rehabilitation of basic primary education schools, (b) provision of 
technical advisory services, supplies and equipment, to upgrade the 
teaching skills of provincial and district education staff and train 
non-formal education workers, and (c) sponsorship of  the participation 
of existing and trainee teachers in the United Nations Children’s Fund 
Page  10
(UNICEF) teacher training program.
2.
Carrying out of a program to provide improved health services and 
raise awareness of personal, family and environmental hygiene in the 
Project Area, including (a) provision of technical advisory services and 
training to provincial and district medical staff and volunteer village 
health workers and birth attendants, and (b) provision of supplies and 
one basic health dispensary in each of the three sub-watershed zones 
included in the Project Area. 
Part C: 
Conservation Support and Awareness
1.
Development of a land and resource use plan for each Pilot Village, 
using a participatory and community-based approach, to ensure that 
agreed-upon planned activities are environmentally sustainable and 
consistent with the conservation activities of the NBCA, and thus raise 
awareness of both the constraints and opportunities of continued 
exploitation of the natural resource base, and identify and reconcile the 
long-term biodiversity conservation objective of NBCA with the basic 
needs of the Pilot Villages.
2.
Development and implementation of culturally-appropriate and 
village-based conservation awareness and extension activities through 
provision of training, and educational and extension materials, to 
enhance understanding, appreciation and management of NBCA and its 
biodiversity.
3.
Establishment of a village conservation monitoring unit in each 
Pilot Village to carry out regular monitoring and patrolling of areas 
under the administration of the Pilot Village to enlist the participation 
of villagers in NBCA management.
Part D: 
Institutional Strengthening, Monitoring and Evaluation
Development of the capacity of provincial and district-level staff 
to implement upland poverty alleviation programs in the context of 
biodiversity conservation in the Project Area and enhance their capacity 
to implement, monitor and evaluate activities under the Project, through 
provision of technical advisory services and training, and acquisition of 
supplies, vehicles and equipment.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the terms “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through 
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  11
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $80,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $40,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 100,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
Page  12
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
