Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16423-CHA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
GANSU PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2812-CHA/CREDIT 1793-CHA)
PART III-INDUSTRIAL DIVERSIFICATION COMPONENT
March31, 1997
Environment and Municipal Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
1988              $1 = Y 3.71
1989              $1 = Y 3.71
1990              $1 = Y 4.72
1991              $1 = Y 5.22
1992              $1 = Y 5.38
1993              $1 = Y 5.45
1994              $1 = Y 8.70
1995              $1 = Y 8.31
1996              $1 = Y 8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GEC      -  Gansu Economic Commission
GEMI   -  Gansu Economic Management Institute
GFB      -  Gansu Finance Bureau
GITC    -  Gansu Investment and Trust Company
GPC      -  Gansu Planning Commission
GPIO    -  Gansu Project Implementation Office
ICR      -  Implementation Completion Report
PBC      -  People's Bank of China
SAR      -  Staff Appraisal Report
SDBC    -  State Development Bank of China
TTA      -  Training and Technical Assistance
TVEs    -  Township and Village Enterprises
Vice President    Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director         Nicholas C. Hope, EA2
Division Chief    Jane Loos, EA2EM
Staff Member      Helen Chan, Operations Officer, EA2EM



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FORWARD
1.    Project Background. The Gansu Provincial Development Project comprises
three components for agriculture, education and industrial diversification. The Project
was identified based on the findings of a 1986 Bank study, Growth and Development in
Gansu Province, carried out to assist the Central and Provincial Governments in
developing an overall strategy for income growth and poverty reduction. In the early
1980s, 41 percent of Gansu's population lived in poverty, compared to 13 percent
nationally, and rural per capita incomes were the lowest nationwide. The Bank study
identified a range of issues facing the province but found three problems acute. First,
incomes and living standards in the province's upland region of Dingxi were found
particularly low. Dingxi had 30 percent of the provincial population -- almost all
employed in agriculture, a larger proportion of rural poor, irrigation of only 13 percent of
the cultivated area and a shortage of drinking water, and an urgent need for land
rehabilitation to counter erosion of the loess soils and to introduce appropriate agricultural
production systems. Second, restrictions on labor mobility combined with unsustainable
pressure on the province's fragile natural resource base argued for the development of
labor-intensive rural industries relying on low-cost labor. Third, improvement of the
educational system, particularly of teacher training in basic education, was identified as
critical, in view of international experience showing education's prime role in allowing
mobility to more remunerative nonagricultural employment, adoption of improved
agricultural technology, and -- for women -- fertility reduction, improvement in family
health and retention of children in school.
2.    Project Design. To address these problems, three separate projects were
prepared and appraised. However, when the amount of Bank Group assistance for
education and industrial diversification had to be scaled back to reflect provincial
repayment capacity, the three operations in different sectors were processed together as
components of a single Gansu Provincial Development Project, financed by Ln. 2812/
Cr. 1793-CHA. The agriculture component received $130 million equivalent of credit
proceeds, the education component $20 million equivalent of IDA funds, and an IBRD
loan of $20 million and credit proceeds of $500,000 equivalent went to industrial
diversification.
3.    The project's agriculture component comprised construction of the technically
challenging 57,000-ha Yindaruqin irrigation scheme, settlement of the irrigated area by
15,000 poor farm families from nearby resource-poor areas, land improvement over
75,000 ha in Dingxi's Guanchuan River Basin, and institutional support. The education
component included upgrading of facilities for training primary school teachers, expansion
of facilities for training lower secondary school teachers, increased in-service teacher
training via expansion of television training facilities, improved science education in 400
lower secondary schools in poor counties, and support to enhance education
administration and management. In support of industrial diversification, the project
provided a $20 million line of credit to finance small- and medium-sized subprojects in
rural and light industry, as well as training and technical assistance for the enterprises
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
assisted and the project financial intermediary, the Gansu Investment and Trust Company
(GITC). While the province assumed the interest rate and exchange rate risks on the Bank
loan, GITC bore the commercial risk.
4.    Project Outcome. The project's agricultural and education activities were,
overall, successfully implemented, although a two-year extension of the credit was
required to complete the agriculture component's Yindaruqin Irrigation Subcomponent.
That subcomponent, entailing major tunneling works with difficult site conditions and
complex engineering, suffered from poor performance by some contractors, lack of
counterpart funds, and bureaucratic land settlement processes. Some on-farm works and
land settlement activities are still ongoing with local funding. The Guanchuan
subcomponent in Dingxi raised farmers' incomes by almost 250 percent three years after
completion of works, while net incomes of farmers in the Yindaruqin area have eventually
increased by 136 percent for the low-income group and by 55 to 60 percent for others.
The land rehabilitation program tested under this and other projects has been subsequently
refined and used in the Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2616), among
others.
5.    The education component, the first Bank Group education operation focused on
only one province, increased the number of qualified primary and lower-secondary school
teachers, improved the quality of science teachers and education in poor counties, and
improved the capabilities of education administrators in the design, development, and
implementation of educational programs. The capacity building for educational
administrators and managers was important for continued improvement of the system.
The administrators and managers trained under this project helped design and implement
the subsequent Third Basic Education Project (Cr. 2831 -CHA).
6.    The industrial diversification component attempted to raise rural incomes in
resource-poor areas with limited agricultural potential and a population surpassing the
carrying capacity of the land. Since labor migration in China at the time was allowed only
in the context of limited, officially sanctioned programs like the one under this project's
agriculture component, the project attempted to provide in-situ assistance to the rural
poor by promoting nonagricultural employment. While the provincial study cautioned
planners "to look carefully at the policy and institutional environment that would facilitate
development of productive nonagricultural jobs in Gansu" (para. 3.01), implying
inadequacy in the current environment, the severity of rural poverty in Gansu, where some
parts of the population had to rely on government provision of grain, water and fuel relief,
was considered adequate justification for piloting limited support to employment
diversification.
7.    Implementation of the component showed the project's goals in the sector to be
overambitious and the study's warning to be justified. While 17 subprojects received
funding for modern equipment and technology and small civil works, financial
performance of the beneficiaries -- 55 percent of which were non-state rural enterprises --
suffered from many problems. Among these were subborrowers' inexperience in
enterprise management, shortages of counterpart funds during implementation and of



iii
working capital during production, and economic reforms introduced during the project
period that caused enterprise costs to rise significantly and demand for their products to
fall. With most project enterprises still producing at less than 50 percent of capacity, their
loan repayment to GITC suffered as did GITC's financial condition. Positively, however,
technical assistance and training provided under the project introduced provincial planners
to the concepts of financial and economic analysis of investments, and this appreciably
improved local planning capabilities.
8.    Assessment of Project Strategy. The project responded appropriately to
provincial needs as identified in the Bank Group study. It also provided experience with
various types of sectoral interventions aimed at poverty alleviation. Although this project
predates introduction of the current Bank Group poverty alleviation strategy in China,
with its targeting of whole operations to specific poor counties identified by the central
and provincial governments, the agricultural component was well focused by emphasizing
the Dingxi Region. The education component addressed the province's general need for
better qualified teachers and did target poor counties for improved science teaching.
Moreover, it was followed by the poverty-targeted basic education project series,
including the Third Basic Education Project which covers Gansu and six other provinces.
The industrial diversification component required about half of the subprojects to be in
rural areas.
9.    The issues with respect to rural industrial development are its difficulty as well as
its value relative to other possible interventions for poverty alleviation. Experience
internationally indicates a high failure rate in town and village enterprises, and the ongoing
China Southwest Poverty Reduction Project (Ln. 3906/Cr. 2744-CHA), a well planned,
integrated multi-sectoral initiative in Guangxi, Guizhou and Yunnan Provinces, has in its
first year disbursed little for a small township and village enterprise development
component. This suggests the difficulty in using rural industrial development as a poverty
alleviation tool.
10.   The Gansu Provincial Development Project's highly successful land development
component in Guanchuan proved the effectiveness of using a package of measures to
improve loess soils. In much of the Loess Plateau, covering 640,000 square kilometers of
Gansu, Shaanxi, and Shanxi Provinces and the Autonomous Regions of Inner Mongolia
and Ningxia, good new land can be readily and cost-effectively created by mechanized and
manual terracing of the soft soil, where slopes are not too steep and population has not yet
exceeded carrying capacity. Using the approach tested under this project, the Bank
Group-financed Loess Plateau Project (Cr. 2616-CHA) being carried out in several
provinces including Gansu, the Shanxi Poverty Alleviation Project (Cr. 2834-CHA) and
the Gansu Hexi Corridor Project (Ln. 4028/Cr. 2870-CHA) are raising agricultural
productivity and the incomes of very poor farmers over a wide area of the Yellow River
basin.
11.   Summary. Although the Gansu Provincial Development Project lacked some of
the design sophistication now brought to the Bank Group's poverty reduction efforts in
China, it significantly improved the incomes of very poor farmers, enhanced educational



iv
quality in poor and other areas of the province, and demonstrated the difficulty of rural
enterprise development. The land improvement package tested under the project proved a
highly effective means of raising agricultural productivity and reducing poverty. The
follow-up Loess Plateau, Shanxi Poverty Alleviation and Gansu Hexi Corridor Projects
are now replicating and building upon the significant achievement of the earlier initiative.



CONTENTS
PREFACE ..........................................................                     iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................................................v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................1
A. Project Objectives and Description ..........................................................l1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ........................................................3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...............5
D. Project Sustainability .........................................................                  10
E. Bank Performance ..........................................................                       10
F. Borrower Performance                         ..1............................................. I 
G. Assessment of Outcome ..........................................................                  11
H. Future Operation .........................................................                        12
I. Key Lessons Learned .........................................................                     12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES                                    ........................................... 14
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ..........................................................              14
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .........................................................  15
Table 3:  Project Timetable .........................................................                16
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ....... 16
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..................................... 17
Table 6:  Key Indicators For Project Operations ............................................ 17
Table 7:  Studies included in Project ..........................................................   18
Table 8:  Project Costs and Financing .......................................................... 19
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ......................................................... 20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants                       ....................................... 21
Table I1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                                  ..  22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ......................................................... 22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions                         ....................................... 23
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ........................... 25
ANNEX  B: ICR  MISSION'S AIDE  MEMOIRE ................................................... 40
ANNEX C: LIST OF SUBPROJECTS/SUBLOANS-AMOUNTS
DISBURSED .........................................................                          53
ANNEX D: GITC-COMPARATIVE (ACTUAL AND PROJECTED)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR YEARS ENDING
DECEMBER  31,1987 TO  JUNE  1996 ............................................... 54






- 111 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
GANSU PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2812-CHA/CREDIT 1793-CHA)
PART III-INDUSTRIAL DIVERSIFICATION COMPONENT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Industrial
Diversification Component of the Gansu Provincial Development Project in China, for
which Loan 2812-CHA in the amount of $20 million and Credit 1793-CHA in the
amount of SDR 410,000 ($500,000 equivalent) were approved on May 12, 1987 and
made effective on January 19, 1988. The loan and credit were closed on June 30, 1996.
They were fully disbursed, and the last disbursement for the industrial diversification
component took place on October 27, 1994.
The ICR was prepared by Helen Chan (Task Manager) in the Environment and
Municipal Development Operations Division, China and Mongolia Department of the
East Asia and Pacific Region, and Naiqin Lu, Operations Officer, in the Resident Mission
of China, and reviewed by Ms. Jane Loos, Chief, EA2EM and Yo Kimura, Project
Advisor, EA2DR. The borrower provided comments that are included as an appendix to
the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision mission in June
1993, and an ICR mission visited the Province in August 1996. The ICR is based on
material in the project file. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by
contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, preparing its own evaluation
of the project's execution and initial preparation, and commenting on the draft ICR.






CHINA
GANSU PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2812-CHA/CREDIT 1793-CHA)
PART III-INDUSTRIAL DIVERSIFICATION COMPONENT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Gansu, in northwestern China, is one of the poorest provinces in the country.
Until the mid-1980s, the province's industrial strategy had almost exclusively
emphasized development of heavy industry using Gansu's considerable natural resources
in petroleum, metal ores and coal. But starting in the mid-1980s and in line with
economic reform programs in China at that time, the Gansu Provincial Government
began to pay attention to two other major resources that had not been fully utilized: its
underemployed rural labor force and abundant local agricultural products. A Bank study,
Growth and Development in Gansu (Report No. 6064-CHA), supported this shift in
policy. The study concluded that a concerted effort to develop labor-intensive industries
and services, based on relatively low economic costs of labor and indigenous resources,
would provide a stimulus for rural and light industries and diversify the economy. These
considerations formed the basis for the Gansu Provincial Development Project's
industrial diversification component (hereafter referred to as the project).
Project Objectives
2.    The project was designed to: (a) diversify Gansu's economy by supporting
technological transformation of rural and light industrial enterprises; (b) assist the Gansu
Investment and Trust Company (GITC) to develop into a viable financial institution;
(c) develop local capacity to use economic analysis in investment decisions and sectoral
analysis in planning; and (d) promote a sustainable local training capability.
3.    The project had two components: (a) a line of credit of $20 million to finance
small- and medium-size projects in rural and light industrial enterprises; and (b) training
and technical assistance (SDR 410,000 or $500,000 equivalent) for capacity building in
local implementing agencies.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Line of Credit. The $20 million was fully utilized by GITC to support 17
subprojects, 14 by rural enterprises receiving 55 percent of the total loan amount and
three by light industrial enterprises receiving 45 percent of the loan. Modern equipment



- vi -
and technology and some small civil works were financed. The subprojects were selected
from 36 project proposals previously endorsed by the Gansu Planning Commission
(GPC) and most were jointly appraised by GITC, the Gansu Project Implementation
Office (GPIO), and GPC. While GITC lacked full autonomy in project selection, it
carried subproject credit risks and was responsible to supervise subproject
implementation. The beneficiary enterprises were spread in 14 towns and cities, with
over half in poor and remote areas in the province. The average subloan size was $1.2
million. Incremental employment totaled 4,500 with a cost per job of about $6,700 (at
the current exchange rate).
5.    All subprojects were completed, but with a delay averaging two years owing to
serious counterpart funding problems. By 1995, 16 subprojects were in commercial
operation, although production capacity utilization was much below appraisal estimates.
All subloans were in the repayment stage by 1995, and currently one subloan is fully
repaid, two are repaying after rescheduling and the rest are in arrears. Three subprojects
have created serious environmental and health hazards. Some of the remaining 11
subprojects have technical, managerial or marketing problems. In their current condition,
these subprojects cannot be considered successful. Economic and financial rates of return
(ERRs and FRRs) calculated by the borrower for the four larger subprojects, accounting
for about 50 percent of the $20 million credit line, indicated FRRs ranging from 5 to 13
percent, compared to the 19 to 27 percent estimated at appraisal, and ERRs from 8 to 18
percent compared to the 25 to 47 percent originally estimated.
6.    The original expectation of developing financially sound industrial operations in
remote areas of one of China's poorest provinces is considered to have been unrealistic.
In the early 1980s, when the project was initiated, China's reform process was still
relatively new, the macroeconomic framework for the type of industrial development
attempted was largely lacking, and enforcement of environmental regulations suffered as
the country strove for economic development. Further, to be successful, the subproject
enterprises would have needed technical, managerial, financial and environmental support
that were locally unavailable.
7.    The project's expectation that GITC would become an independent and viable
commercial financial institution during the implementation period, and as a result of
project support for only a small part of GITC's overall activities, was similarly
unrealistic. In the mid-1980s, investment decisions in the province were normally not
determined on economic and financial viability, and financial reforms were at a very
early stage of development. Only in 1994, as a result of nationwide financial reforms that
provided autonomy and imposed asset/liability requirements on all nonbank financial
intermediaries, did GITC get full autonomy in its investment decision-making and begin
to make progress toward financial independence.
8.    Under the project, GITC's application of subproject appraisal procedures and
selection criteria was insufficiently strict, in part due to its unfamiliarity with commercial
practices and in part due to its lack of autonomy in decision-making. Subproject



- vii -
appraisal assumptions for financial projections, capacity utilization and repayment terms
were often unrealistically unattainable. GITC lacked the capacity in fully assessing the
enterprise management ability, market situations and technical capacity. Furthermore,
subloan agreements lacked adequate financial performance targets, e.g., disallowing
borrowers from incurring any new debt unless an agreed debt/equity threshold had been
met, and failed to indicate specific legal obligations of the guarantors.
9.    The project did, however, lay a basis for GITC's future development. During
project preparation, the Bank provided considerable managerial and financial training for
many GITC managers and operational staff. During project implementation, GITC
continued to receive training from the project's technical assistance. Since its adoption of
a Policy Statement and business strategy in June 1988, GITC has developed from a
government disbursing institution to a nonbank financial institution depending more on
sound credit analysis. Nonetheless, its institutional development has a long way to go to
become satisfactory.
10.   GITC's financial position remained weak during project implementation due
mainly to its existing aging portfolio and further aggravated by the poor repayment record
of subprojects under the project. Marginal improvement occurred in 1995 and 1996 due
to GITC's intensified collection efforts and revised business strategy adopted in 1994.
Net income after tax as a percentage of total assets increased from virtually zero in 1994
to 2.2 percent on June 30, 1996. The collection rate increased from 10 percent in 1994 to
22 percent in 1995. Based on financial results in the first half of 1996 and its intensive
collection efforts since 1995, GITC's financial position could further improve in future if
it adheres strictly to ratio management requirements set out by the Central Bank (the
People's Bank of China), improve its portfolio quality and establish a corporate
management system. At the request of the ICR mission, GITC and the Provincial
Finance Bureau jointly prepared a restructuring program for subprojects and the aging
nonperforming portfolio.
11.   Technical Assistance.  Most activities were completed satisfactorily.  Five
agroprocessing studies and associated economic analyses were undertaken by GPC and
the Gansu Economic Commission to serve as the basis for strategic subsector planning in
the Province's Eighth Five-Year Plan. A variety of training programs were offered and
trainees came from implementing agencies in another Bank-supported health project in
Gansu, implementing agencies for all components of this project (including agriculture
and education), beneficiary enterprises in the industrial component and many other rural
enterprises that were not project beneficiaries. With the management information system
established with Bank assistance, the GPIO coordinated project activities and managed
project implementation generally efficiently. Periodic progress reports submitted to the
Bank were timely and complete.
12.   Bank Supervision.  As a small component in a project aimed primarily at
agricultural development and, to a lesser degree, social services support, the project's
small industrial component suffered from inadequate support from Bank management.



- viii -
The Bank's supervision budget went mainly to the larger components, to the detriment of
the industrial activities. The Bank's method of allocating supervision resources played a
major role in the low level of supervision during some periods of project implementation.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
13.   The project outcome must be considered unsatisfactory. Although it succeeded in
developing the local government's basic capacity to use economic and financial criteria in
investment planning, this modest intervention did not succeed in establishing well-
performing rural industries or in transforming GITC into a well-functioning, commercial
financial intermediary. Even now, industrial and financial reforns constitute some of the
major remaining and most difficult items on China's reform agenda. This one operation
should not have been expected to introduce such changes in one of the country's least
developed areas at an early stage in China's reform process.
14.   The sustainability of project interventions is uncertain. GITC's future prospects
will depend on the success with which it carries out the subproject and portfolio
restructuring program developed with Bank assistance. Under the program, buttressed by
a new business plan and supervision by the provincial branch of PBC, GITC is attempting
to revitalize its asset stock, intensify collection to improve portfolio quality and to
diversify risks by engaging in new product lines. If the program is carried out with full
support from the relevant government departments, GITC and the participating
enterprises-most of which have good business potential-may, in time, internalize the
reforms introduced under the project.
15.   The following major lessons were learned under the project:
(a)   Financial and industrial reforms are very difficult undertakings, which
cannot be effected in one operation and without a supportive
macroeconomic and institutional framework. The expectation that project
support for financial system and industrial development in one of China's
most disadvantaged areas at a time when such reforms were at their
earliest stages in China was overoptimistic;
(b)   Financial intermediary operations need to have well-defined and strictly
applied procedures for subproject appraisal, adequate and realistic criteria
(technical, institutional, financial and economic) for subproject selection,
relevant expertise of the financial intermediary in all aspects of the
appraisal, and subloan agreements with appropriate financial performance
requirements and specification of guarantors' legal obligation. These
prerequisites were largely absent in Gansu and in China as well. GITC,
and all other Gansu banks, lacked adequate capabilities in project analysis
and credit risk management; assumptions used in GITC's financial
projections for the industrial subprojects were unrealistic; and the small
rural enterprises funded under the project received little of the technical
and managerial support needed for the envisioned development; and



- ix-
(c)   In multisectoral projects, the Bank must be willing to allocate sufficient
supervision resources to all project components, no matter their relative
size. Bank supervision of this project's industrial activities suffered from
resource constraints associated with having three independent components
in one project, but without allocating resources for each component as if it
were a separate project.
(d)    The industrial diversification component finances small rural enterprises
in one of the poorest and most remote provinces in China. Past experience
in other projects in China and in other countries shows that rural enterprise
development is a particularly difficult undertaking, which involves long-
term commitments from both providers and recipients of such assistance,
and a supportive macroeconomic framework. The expectation that small
rural enterprises in remote poor provinces in China are to perform
satisfactorily with virtually no institutional support is destined to be
disappointing.






- 1 -
CHINA
GANSU PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2812-CHA/CREDIT 1793-CHA)
PART III-INDUSTRIAL DIVERSIFICATION COMPONENT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    Background. Gansu, in northwestern China, is one of the poorest provinces in
the country. Until the mid- 1980s, the province was overwhelmingly rural, with
agriculture the main source of livelihood for the population. The provincial strategy for
the industrial sector almost exclusively emphasized the development of heavy industry
using Gansu's considerable natural resources in petroleum, metal ores and coal. In line
with the economic reform program in China, Gansu's government began to pay attention
to two other major resources that had not been fully utilized: the underemployed rural
labor force and abundant local agricultural produce. A Bank study, Growth and
Development in Gansu (Report No. 6064-CHA), supported this shift in policy. The study
indicated that the near-exclusive emphasis on development of mineral-based heavy
industry would do little to increase nonagricultural employment and improve the low
productivity in agriculture. The study concluded that a concerted effort to develop labor-
intensive industries and services, based on the relatively low economic costs of labor and
indigenous resources, would provide a stimulus for rural and light industries, help
diversify the economy, increase its overall growth rate as well as alleviate poverty. These
strategic considerations formed the basis for the industrial diversification component
(hereafter called "the project") of the Gansu Provincial Development Project.
2.    Project Objectives. The project was designed to:
(a)   diversify Gansu's economy by supporting technological transformation of
rural and light industrial enterprises for improved labor productivity and
by creating industrial employment in rural areas to alleviate poverty;
(b)   assist the Gansu Investment and Trust Company (GITC) to develop into a
viable commercial financial institution by introducing credit decision
criteria based on financial and credit risk analysis;
(c)   develop the local capacity to use economic analysis in investment
decisions and sectoral analysis in planning; and



- 2 -
(d)    promote sustainable local training capacity through a variety of training
programs.
Objective (a) was fulfilled in only a very narrow sense, in that enterprises were developed
or expanded under the project and people were employed. However, since most
enterprises are not financially sound and their sustainability is uncertain, the development
impact expected from the project cannot be considered achieved. Objective (d) relating
to training was successful in the sense that people were trained as expected, but
sustainability of the training programs will depend on continued budgetary allocations.
As to objective (b), given the lack of financial reform in China in the mid-1980s, it was
unrealistic to expect this single operation to make GITC a financially viable institution.
Objective (c) is considered achieved since the project raised provincial planners'
awareness of the importance of economic analysis, yet development of local capacity is a
long-term goal and a continuous process.
3.    Project Description. The project had two components:
(a)    a $20 million line of credit for the financing of small- and medium-size
projects in rural and light industrial enterprises, particularly the town and
village enterprises (TVEs) in the rural areas; and
(b)   training and technical assistance (SDR 410,000 or $500,000 equivalent)
for capacity building in local implementing agencies' to:
(i)    strengthen GITC as a financial intermediary to facilitate and ensure
the effective use of investment funds;
(ii)    support the Gansu Planning Commission (GPC) and the Gansu
Economic Commission (GEC) in the preparation of agroprocessing
studies and associated economic analyses;
(iii)    assist Gansu Province in implementing  its various training
programs; and
(iv)    finance purchase of essential office equipment for agencies
involved in the project.
4.    The People's Republic of China was the borrower of the Bank loan and IDA
credit. The proceeds of the credit were extended to Gansu Province for technical
assistance activities. The proceeds of the loan were relent to GITC for 20 years including
a grace period of 5 years, with GITC allowed to roll over the funds. GITC's subloans
Gansu Planning Commission (GPC), Gansu Economic Commission (GEC), Gansu Finance Bureau
(GFB), Gansu Economic Management Institute (GEMI), Bureau of Light Industries and Bureau of
Rural Industries, Gansu Investment and Trust Company (GITC), Gansu Project Implementation Office
(GPIO), rural and light industrial enterprises, particularly for subproject entities under the project.



- 3 -
were normally not to extend beyond 7 years, and not more than 12 years. Foreign
currency subloans carried a fixed interest rate of 8.5 percent. Subborrowers assumed the
US dollar exchange rate risk, while the province carried the interest rate risk and the
exchange risk between the currency pool and the US dollar.  Local currency
subborrowers paid a variable interest rate based on loan rates of the Agricultural Bank of
China (ABC) and the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) to rural and
industrial enterprises. The province carried all foreign exchange and interest rate risks on
local currency subloans. GITC was allowed a minimum 4 percent interest rate spread on
the subloans to cover its cost.
5.    Eligibility Criteria of Subloans. The subprojects financed with the Bank loan
were to meet the following eligibility criteria: (a) minimum financial and economic rates
of return of 12 percent; (b) subborrowers to finance at least 10 percent of investment cost
of the subprojects; and (c) a minimum of four subprojects in the light industrial sector
with loans totaling to $8 million and a minimum of 18 subprojects in rural industries with
loans totaling not less than $12 million.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.    Physical Objectives. The major objectives were partially achieved. The line of
credit was fully utilized, supporting 14 rural enterprises and 3 light industrial enterprises.
The 17 subprojects were selected from 36 proposals endorsed by GPC. The loan
financed modem equipment and technology and some small civil works. Subproject
implementation suffered delays of one to three years, lack of counterpart funds,
technology problems and deficient managerial capability. Of the 17 subprojects, 16 were
completed and are in commercial operations, although with production much lower than
subproject appraisal estimates. One subproject did not go into commercial operations.
The enterprises' economic and financial returns were also lower than anticipated at
appraisal due mainly to increasing input prices and declining product prices. One subloan
was fully repaid, two are repaying after rescheduling and the rest are in arrears. Three
subprojects have created serious environmental and health hazards.  Some of the
remaining 11 subprojects have technical, managerial or marketing problems. But overall,
these subprojects have good business potential. They have already contributed to the
local economy by creating industrial employment in rural areas, raising rural income,
utilizing indigenous raw materials, creating value-added to local agricultural products,
leading to proliferation of supporting industries and services in the vicinity of the
subprojects, and developing managerial and technical skills in rural areas.
7.    Institutional Objectives.  The project provided technical assistance to help
capacity building in local implementing agencies in three major areas.
(a)   Strengthening of GITC.   The expectation that GITC  (only the
International Departments was involved in the project) would become a
viable commercial financial institution did not materialize. During project
preparation, the Bank provided substantial managerial and financial



-4-
training for many GITC managers and operational staff dealing with
international operations. After project effectiveness, GITC continued to
receive training under the project's technical assistance activities. GITC's
adoption in June 1988 of a Policy Statement and a business strategy
helped it to develop from a governnent disbursing institution to a nonbank
financial institution depending  more on credit analysis.   Yet this
achievement was limited, with the particular problem that until 1994 (and
to some extent even now) the provincial government influenced GITC's
investment decisions, despite the latter's nominal autonomy.
(b)    Studies. Five subsector studies (on sugar beet, vegetable oil processing,
wheat straw pulp and paper, fruit and vegetable bottling and canning, and
soybean derivatives) were completed by February 1990, and were well
prepared. GPC found the studies very helpful in its policy and investment
decisions during the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1990-95). To some extent,
the studies helped the agroprocessing industries take advantage of Gansu's
comparative advantage in certain agricultural crops and improve value-
added of its produce. For instance, the crop planting areas of sugar beet,
flax and soybean were appropriately increased; as such, food processing
became the pillar subsector of TVEs, accounting for nearly 30 percent of
TVEs' output value in 1994. In addition, agroprocessing promoted the
integration of agricultural production and application of science and
technology.  The dissemination and application of the studies were,
however, affected by Gansu's harsh natural conditions, difficulties in
adopting new concepts in Gansu, and constraints posed by China's
evolving reform environment. The economic studies2 conducted by GPC
and GEC were incorporated into the subsector studies with agreement of
the Bank in 1989. Economic analysis was also used in the selection and
appraisal of the subprojects under the line of credit. Both the financial and
economic analysis introduced in the Province by the project were
integrated into investment analysis and decision-making, although
assumptions used in both analyses were usually too optimistic to be
attainable.  This nevertheless represented significant progress in the
province, which for the first time used economic and financial analysis in
its decision-making process.
(c)    Training. Course evaluations indicate that the various training programs3
financed under the project were very helpful to both project
2  The economic studies considered shadow pricing, economies of scale, capacity utilization,
employment creation, efficiency of operations, administered prices, subcontracting, and trade and
payments.
3  The training programs included:  project evaluation, management and supervision; financial
management; business accounting and finance; computer applications; foreign language; and rural
enterprise management.



- 5 -
implementation agencies and subproject entities. The programs were
conducted by several training institutes in Gansu and other provinces,
using  different teaching  methodologies.   The Gansu  Economic
Management Institute (GEMI) was the chief organizer and conducted most
of the training. Case studies with on-site plant visits were ranked best by
the approximately 1,000 participants from agencies implementing all three
components of the Gansu Provincial Development Project, another Bank-
assisted health project, and rural and industrial enterprises. Some 300
participants were from rural and light industrial enterprises, including
many nonproject beneficiaries.  GEMI's overall capability has been
greatly enhanced by incorporating teaching materials developed by the
Bank's Economic Development Institute (EDI), inviting domestic and
foreign experts as lecturers, organizing various training programs, and
upgrading teaching facilities.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
8.    Loan Effectiveness and Implementation Schedule.  The Gansu Provincial
Development Project was approved by the Bank's Board on May 12, 1987. The Loan/
Credit and Project Agreements were signed on September 14, 1987 and became effective
on January 19, 1988.  Project completion and loan closing were scheduled for
December 31, 1993 and June 30, 1994, respectively. The last disbursement for the
component was in October 1994. The project's closing date was extended twice to
June 30, 1996 because of delays in the agricultural component.
9.    Subproject Characteristics. The average subloan size was $1.2 million. Eleven
of the 17 subprojects were larger than $300,000, requiring economic rate of return
calculations. Of the loan amount, 55 percent went to nonstate rural enterprises and 45
percent to light industrial enterprises, a minor deviation from the appraisal estimate of 60
and 40 percent, respectively. There was only one foreign currency subloan, amounting to
10 percent of the line of credit. Total investment cost of the subprojects amounted to
about $60 million equivalent, reflecting the project's significant local counterpart funding
requirement. The subprojects were widely distributed in 14 cities and towns, over half in
poor and remote areas in the province. Incremental employment totaled 4,500 with a cost
per job of about $6,700 (at the current exchange rate).
10.   Subproject Implementation. Subproject selection was delayed due in part to the
time needed by GITC and GPIO to complete economic and financial evaluations required
for subproject selection. Even though the analyses were undertaken properly, the
underlying assumptions were overly optimistic. Subproject implementation was delayed
because most enterprises failed to obtain necessary counterpart funds. As of June 30,
1996, construction of all 17 subprojects was completed, with 16 starting commercial
operations. Due to technical and procurement problems, one subproject did not go into
commercial operations with the intended products, but was producing some peripheral
products in the past two years. Six of the 17 subprojects (35 percent) were completed



- 6 -
according to schedule, nine (53 percent) were delayed for one to two years, and two (12
percent) for up to three years.
11.   Of the 17 subprojects, one subproject doubled production capacity from its project
design and fully repaid the loan by early 1995. One subproject did not go into
commercial operations and GITC is currently resorting to legal action for subloan
recovery. For most of the remaining 15 subprojects, production was much lower than
subproject appraisal estimates. Three subprojects were producing at between 70 and 92
percent of installed production capacity, six at 30 to 55 percent, three at 16 to 28 percent,
two at less than 10 percent, and two were not producing the intended products. Of the
latter two, one had ventured into some peripheral production and was not successful as
well. Another one had diverted its production to different products while using the same
equipment and was expected to do well in the next two years. The six subprojects
producing at 30 to 55 percent of installed capacity have the potential to increase
production in the next few years.
12.   Major factors contributing to slow implementation and low capacity utilization
included: (a) failure to obtain sufficient counterpart funds as scheduled during the
construction stage; (b) shortage of working capital during the production stage due to
triangular debts4 and tight credit policy; (c) lack of technical support resulting in poor
technology and equipment choice, affecting production during commercial operations;
(d) cost overruns during the construction period, further aggravating problems of
insufficient counterpart funds; (e) lack of proper project and enterprise management,
particularly for small rural enterprises; (f) change of project designs during
implementation; (g) insufficient indigenous raw materials, while imported raw materials
(from outside Gansu) were too expensive to be affordable; (h) a longer than planned
testing period leading to delays in start of commercial operations; and (i) market changes
during a prolonged implementation period in an increasingly open and competitive
market, which resulted in product sales prices much lower than appraisal, raw material
prices much higher and products not marketable. To be successful, the subproject
enterprises would have needed technical, managerial, financial, marketing and
environmental assistance that were locally unavailable.
13.   A few subproject beneficiaries are profitable, a few are marginal, but most have
financial difficulties. This has affected subproject repayments. In addition to delays in
project implementation, some enterprises, already heavily indebted by the subprojects,
ventured into new capital investment without prior consultation and agreements with
GITC. GITC's ability to properly supervise the subprojects and enforce financial
obligations of even the financially solvent enterprises was also limited. The local
Investment and Trust Companies (ITCs) that were supposed to help GITC in supervising
subprojects as well as GITC's own local administrative offices were closed in 1994 under
the new regulations of PBC for nonbank financial institutions. Thus, GITC was left with
4  Debts with its input suppliers and its sales channels.



- 7 -
no supervisory network. It would have been difficult as well as expensive for GITC to
effectively supervise these subprojects and to improve loan collection as the subprojects
were scattered all over Gansu.
14.   A few subprojects in remote areas caused environmental problems and were
allowed to continue production, ignoring existing environmental regulations. They
neglected the environmental protection measures indicated in their investment plans due
to inadequate counterpart funding. However, required remedial measures would need
substantial additional investment, which may not be financially and economically viable
to both the enterprises and to the Gansu economy.
15.   Remedial Action Plan. Most of these problems are beyond GITC's ability to
solve. During the ICR mission, the Bank requested GITC and the provincial government
to prepare a joint remedial action plan to solve these problems. GITC and the provincial
government agreed to examine the three projects with environmental problems and solve
the issues either by stopping production, or installing necessary pollution control
equipment. For the few subprojects that perform poorly and have no chance of operating
profitably in the future, GITC, with support from local government, will turn to legal
actions for repayments from subborrowers and their guarantors. For subprojects with a
reasonable chance of performing satisfactorily in the long run, GITC will seek assistance
from local government and their guarantors for technical and managerial assistance.
GITC has already introduced the remedial actions.
16.   Subloan Repayments.  At appraisal, subproject repayment capabilities were
overestimated. The delay in project implementation further weakened enterprises' ability
to repay. By the end of 1995, all 17 subprojects entered into the repayment stage
according to their original schedules, which were unduly optimistic. As of June 30, 1996,
one subloan was fully repaid; two subloans have been repaying; two subloans had been
rescheduled; and one was under legal pursuit of subloan recovery. The remaining 11
subloans were in arrears. Poor repayment was due to: (a) delayed implementation;
(b) low capacity utilization; and (c) repayment funds diverted to other capital and
working capital expenditures. In mid-1996, the collection rate based on original project
subloan agreements was only 12.5 percent, even lower than GITC's average collection
rate of 22 percent in 1995. Arrears as a percentage of project loans outstanding were 62
percent, also much higher than GITC's average arrears ratio of 39 percent in 1995. Based
on the remedial action plan (para. 15), GITC and provincial and local authorities have
worked out a rescheduling program for the subprojects that were in arrears. Depending
on its enforcement and monitoring efforts, the collection rate could be increased to 40
percent and the arrears ratio decreased to 13 percent by the end of 1997.



- 8 -
COLLECTION AND ARREARS POSITION: SUBPROJECTS UNDER LOAN 2812-CHA
(As of June 30, 1996)
Principle (Y million)
Number of Original Contract    After Rescheduling
Subprojects  Foreign  Local      Foreign   Local
1. Cumulative Amount Due       17        2.1   53.1           -      19.2
2. Cumulative Amount Paid       4        -       7.6          -       7.6
3. AmountofArrears             13        2.1   45.5           -       11.6
Ratios (percent)
2/1                           23.5       0     14.3           -      39.6
3/1                           76.5    100.0   85.7            -      60.4
17.   Economic and Financial Rates of Return. GPC and GITC calculated ex-post
financial rates of return (FRR) and economic rates of return (ERR) on four subprojects,
two rural industries and two light industries, accounting for about half of the $20 million
in subloans. The ex-ante FRRs ranged from 19 to 27 percent while the ex-post FRRs
ranged from 5 to 13 percent. The ex-ante ERRs ranged from 25 to 47 percent while the
ex-post ERRs ranged from 8 to 18 percent. Actual results were lower than original
estimates because: (a) input prices increased substantially while product sales price
remained relatively low due to competition; and (b) low utilization of production capacity
led to high production cost.
18.   Training  and  Technical Assistance.   This component included  five
agroprocessing subsector studies and associated economic analyses, various training
programs, and the purchase of office equipment for agencies involved in the industrial
diversification component.
*  The subsector studies, carried out by GPC and GEC, were well prepared and
accepted by Gansu authorities. They provided an analytic basis, with essential
financial and economic criteria, to help restructure the related subsectors
during Gansu's Eighth Five-Year Plan. The sugar beet and wheat straw
studies were particularly instrumental in sectoral planning.
* Around 1,000 personnel from enterprises and government agencies benefited
from different types of training programs. About 40 percent of the trainees
were from relevant government departments, and 60 percent from subproject
entities and rural and industrial enterprises. It is estimated that 90 percent of
the trainees were managers. GEMI's teaching capability has been greatly



- 9 -
improved through organizing and offering various training programs, and
upgrading its teaching facility.
The Management Information System (MIS), financed under the project, was
completed in 1993 for GPIO and GITC. GPIO used it efficiently to manage
and monitor financial affairs, contracting and procurement under the Gansu
Provincial Development Project and the industrial subprojects. GITC could
have utilized the MIS more effectively in monitoring the physical and
financial performance of the subprojects and its other operations as well.
19.   Financial Performance of GITC. A comparative summary of GITC's financial
statements during 1987-96 is shown in Annex D. The financial position of GITC
remained weak during project implementation due mainly to its existing aging portfolio,
which was not performing well, and further aggravated by the poor repayment records of
subprojects under the project. The project's expectation that GITC would become a
viable, independent and commercial financial institution during the implementation
period was unrealistic. In the mid-1980s, investment decisions in the province were
normally not determined on economic and financial viability, and financial reforms were
at a very early stage of development. Only in 1994, as a result of nationwide financial
reforms that provided autonomy and imposed asset/liability requirements on all nonbank
financial intermediaries, did GITC get full autonomy in its investment decision-making
and begin to make progress toward financial independence.
20.   Following PBC's 1994 regulations and in line with its strategic business plan,
GITC in 1994 started to diversify from long-term lending operations to short-term
lending, leasing, bonds and trust businesses.  These have resulted in marginal
improvements in GITC's financial position in 1995 and 1996. Net income after tax as a
percentage of total assets increased from virtually zero in 1994 to 2.2 percent at June 30,
1996. In 1994, it provided counterpart funding of Y 237 million for the Yindaruqin
irrigation scheme in the agriculture component of the project. Funds were relent from the
State Development Bank of China (SDBC). In early 1996, GITC absorbed the provincial
fiscal revolving funds of Y 70 million in its accounts, pushing the total debt/equity ratio
from 1.1 at the end of 1995 to 1.45 at June 30, 1996, almost reaching the 1.5 loan
covenant. Based on financial results in the first half of 1996 and its intensive collection
efforts, GITC's financial position could be further improved in the future if it adheres
strictly to PBC's ratio management requirements, improves its existing portfolio quality
and establishes a corporate management system.
21.   Operational Performance. Under the project, GITC's application of subproject
appraisal procedures and selection criteria was insufficiently strict, in part due to its
unfamiliarity with commercial practices and in part due to its lack of autonomy in
decision-making. Subproject appraisal assumptions for financial projections, capacity
utilization and repayment terms were often unrealistic. GITC placed insufficient
importance on enterprise management ability, market situations and technical capacity.
Furthermore, subloan agreements lacked adequate financial performance targets, e.g., the



- 10-
agreements were insufficiently specific by lacking (a) debt/equity thresholds to prevent
borrowers from incurring too much new debt, (b) specific legal obligations of the
guarantors; (c) financial and physical progress reporting requirements; and (d) standard
procurement procedures.
22.   Arrears Situation of GITC. GITC's poor appraisal procedures resulted in poor
collection performance, which bottomed at 10 percent in 1994. Thereafter, through
intensive efforts collections increased to 22 percent in 1995. Correspondingly, arrears as
a percentage of total loans outstanding decreased from 46 percent in 1994 to 39 percent at
the end of 1995. About 67 percent of its arrears were overdue loans of more than two
years. The Bank suggested that GITC undertake a detailed portfolio review in assessing
the recovery possibility of these arrears and to take decisive actions in writing off
noncollectible bad loans, such as loans extended to enterprises that no longer existed or
were not in operation. Given the arrears ratio and its aging profile, GITC's 2 percent bad
debt provision is clearly insufficient to cover unrecoverable bad loans. Based on the
portfolio review, GITC should seek agreement from relevant authorities to increase its
general bad debt provisions to an appropriate level consistent with its experience with bad
loans and to include "specific" provisions based on the status of each existing loan
account that was in default for over one year.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
23.   Project sustainability is uncertain.  Although value-added of project-related
agricultural production to the local economy is considerable and project technical
assistance benefited Gansu substantially in some areas, the outcome of the main project
components supporting GITC and the industrial subprojects remains in doubt. The
project's ultimate results will depend on GITC's ability to implement the subproject
remedial action plan with full support and coordination from local government agencies.
With two thirds of the subprojects likely to reach reasonable installed production capacity
and provide value-added to local agricultural production in the next few years, the
invested capital would continue to provide industrial employment in some of the poorest
and remote areas of China while permitting viable operations of subprojects.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
24.   During project identification and preparation, the Bank played an important role
in the formulation and design of the project. The Bank contributed enormous resources
over 100 staff-weeks during the 18-month period when the project was prepared. After
project effectiveness, the Bank provided continual advice with the reviews of subproject
appraisal reports and agroprocessing studies, reviews of procurement and disbursement
matters, and discussions during supervision missions. Through subproject reviews, the
Bank assisted GITC and GPIO to become familiar with project analysis and helped to
improve their appraisal standards. With the Bank's support, GITC was allowed by PBC
in 1993 to conduct foreign exchange business and to increase its provisions for bad loans
to a higher level than the rate applied to other financial institutions at that time. In



- 11 -
addition, the Bank advised GITC to strengthen subproject and portfolio management,
recommended remedial actions on specific issues affecting several subprojects, and
suggested that GITC prepare a strategic business plan to guide its development as a
commercial financial institution.
25.   Nonetheless, Bank supervision activities on the project could have been more
effective had additional staff resources been allocated. In view of the difficulty of the
project activities, which were completely new to Gansu's rural areas, much more
supervision was required. Project supervision was directed mainly at preparation of
subproject assessments in 1989. Implementation of the subprojects in subsequent years
received 6.4, 7.5, 1.6 and 3.4 staff weeks of supervision in 1990-93, respectively.
Supervision in the field was infrequent, with missions spaced more than a year apart.
Had additional staff resources been allocated, the Bank could have affected the timely
handling of emerging problems in both the subprojects and GITC. Although the
industrial component was only one part of the Gansu Development Project, it was a
project on its own and should have received a supervision budget on that basis. The
Bank's system of allocating supervision budgetary resources based on the number of
operations and the increasingly tight budget situation since the early 1990s were largely
responsible for the inadequate project supervision. Even so, the Bank's expectations to
improve substantially the quality of Gansu's investment with sound project appraisal and
to develop a viable financial institution within the span of a single operation were unduly
optimistic.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.   The local institutions involved in the project supported its implementation as well
as they could, but during the implementation period, many constraints experienced by
them were beyond their control, including the general lack of industrial and financial
reform in China. The Gansu government attached significant importance to the project,
GPIO was generally efficient in project coordination and management, and, within the
evolving financial reforms and investment environment in Gansu, GITC made a
substantial effort to improve its portfolio, strengthen collection efforts and diversify its
operations to improve profitability. GEC and GPC also completed the agroprocessing
studies satisfactorily and GEMI managed the training programs effectively. To some
extent, the implementing agencies could have improved their performance in providing
more timely counterpart funds, enforcing environmental standards and regulations more
strictly, devoting more manpower and time to subproject supervision, and resolving
enterprise technical and repayment problems more diligently. The borrower's overall
performance is therefore rated marginally unsatisfactory.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
27.   The project's physical outcome is rated as less than satisfactory, despite generally
good implementation of subsector and economic studies and various training programs
that assisted the province improve its subsector investment planning. The project met its



- 12-
objectives in only a narrow sense. Incremental industrial employment was provided in
remote and poor rural areas, value added to local agriculture production increased, rural
poverty alleviated to some extent, and managerial capabilities were developed in many
government and enterprise beneficiaries. However, project implementation was slow and
problem-ridden, GITC's financial performance was poor, a number of subprojects
financed under the line of credit continue to face financial, technical, managerial and
marketing difficulties, and three subprojects have created environmental problems that
remain unaddressed. If GITC carries out its remedial action plan and gains the full
support and supervision of relevant government departments, the developmental and
financial prospects of most subprojects would improve. But as matters now stand, the
industrial development activities in Gansu cannot be considered to have achieved their
intended effects fully.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
28.   The provincial planners will continue to use the economic and financial planning
skills they acquired under the project, and others who received project training are
expected to further improve their capabilities. GITC and 15 of the subproject enterprises
will endeavor to achieve financial viability in the next few years. The one already
successful subproject enterprise is expected to continue operating satisfactorily. GITC is
expected to operate as an independent nonbank financial institution with its new business
plan and under the supervision of the provincial PBC. It will continue its efforts to
revitalize its asset stock, intensify collection to improve its portfolio quality and to
diversify risks by engaging in new products lines. The Gansu government will work
closely with GITC to ensure that the remedial action plan discussed in para. 13 would be
carried out with sufficient support from all agencies.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
29.   The following major lessons were learned under the project:
(a)   Financial and industrial reforms are very difficult undertakings, which
cannot be effected in one operation in one province and without a
nationwide supportive macroeconomic and institutional framework. The
expectation that project support for financial system and industrial
development in one of China's most disadvantaged areas at a time when
such reforms were at their earliest stages in China was overoptimistic;
(b)   Financial internediary operations need to have well-defined and strictly
applied procedures for subproject appraisal, adequate and realistic criteria
(technical, institutional, financial and economic) for subproject selection,
relevant expertise of the financial intermediary in all aspects of the
appraisal, and subloan agreements with appropriate financial performance
requirements and specification of guarantors' legal obligation. These
prerequisites were largely absent in Gansu and in China as well. GITC,
and all other Gansu banks, lacked adequate capabilities in project analysis



- 13 -
and credit risk management; assumptions used in GITC's financial
projections for the industrial subprojects were unrealistic; and the small
rural enterprises funded under the project received little of the technical
and managerial support needed for the envisioned development; and
(c)    In multisectoral projects, the Bank must be willing to allocate sufficient
supervision resources to all project components, no matter their relative
size. Bank supervision of this project's industrial activities suffered from
resource constraints associated with having three independent components
in one project, but without allocating resources for each component as if it
were a separate project.
(d)    The industrial diversification component finances small rural enterprises
in one of the poorest and most remote provinces in China. Past experience
in other projects in China and in other countries shows that rural enterprise
development is a particularly difficult undertaking, which involves long-
term commitments from both providers and recipients of such assistance,
and a supportive macroeconomic framework. The expectation that small
rural enterprises in remote poor provinces in China are to perform
satisfactorily with virtually no institutional support is destined to be
disappointing.



- 14 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial      Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                              x
Sector policies                                                                     x
Financial objectives                                               x
Institutional development                              x
Physical objectives                                    x
Poverty reduction                                      x
Gender issues                                                                       x
Other social objectives                                                             x
Environmental objectives                                            x
Public sector management                               x
Private sector development                                          x
B. Project Sustainability                 Likely             Unlikely           Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                   Highly Satisfactory      Satisfacto_y       Deficient
Identification                                                      x
Preparation assistance                                              x
Appraisal                                                           x
Supervision                                                                           x
D. Borrower Performance                Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                        x
Implementation                                                                        x
Covenant compliance                                                x
Operation (if applicable)                                                             x
E. Assessment of Outcome        Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                                      Unsatisfactory
x



- 15 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit No. Title                                                   Year of   Status
Purpose                                          Approval
Ln. 2226-CHA/         To assist CIB in meeting the need for foreign exchange  1983   Completed
Cr. 1313-CHA          for industrial financing, improving investment efficiency,
First Industrial Credit   and organizing and improving CIB's capacity for project
Project ($71.5 million)  design, selection, appraisal and technology transfer.
Ln 2434-CHA/          To continue the institutional building efforts of the first  1984   Completed
Cr. 1491 -CHA         project, including expanding branches, assist in appraisal
Second Industrial Credit of larger projects and meet CIB's resource requirements.
Project ($183.2 million)
Ln 2658-CHA/          To assist CIB in financing productive facilities and  1986   Completed
Cr 1663-CHA           resources in China to contribute to the country's eco-
Third Industrial Credit  nomic and social development; to provide CIB with funds
Project ($103.6 million) needed to develop its operations and carry out its Charter
and Statement of Policy and Strategy.
Ln 2783-CHA/          To assist the govermnent in promoting and implementing    1987   Completed
Cr 1763-CHA           technology upgrading and modernization in industry, to
Fourth Industrial Credit build up sound institutions and procedures for project
Project ($300 million)   appraisal and investment financing and to improve inter-
mediation practices; specifically, to continue institutional
assistance to CIB and provide a general line of credit for
industry.
Ln 3075-CHA           Continuation of activities under the Fourth Industrial  1989   Completed
Fifth Industrial Credit   Credit Project
Project ($300 million)



- 16 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
(for Industrial Diversification Component)
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned            Date Actual/Latest Estimates
Identification                         May 1986                      May 1986
Preparation                            July 1986                      July 1986
Appraisal                            October 1986                   October 1986
Negotiations                          March 1987                     March 1987
Board Presentation                    April 1987                    May 12, 1987
Signing                                June 1987                 September 14, 1987
Effectiveness                         August 1987                 January 19, 1988
Completion of Component           December 31, 1993                 June 30, 1994
Loan Closing                         June 30, 1994                  June 30, 1996
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($ million)
(For the Loan only. The SDR 410,000 is together with the agriculture and education
components)
Bank Fiscal Year and Semester  Estimated Cumulative   Actual Cumulative   Actual % of Estimated
1988    December31, 1987             1.40                 0.00                 0
June 30, 1988               1.20                 0.00                  0
1989    December 31, 1988            3.60                 0.00                 0
June 30, 1989               5.80                 5.31                 91
1990    December31, 1989             8.80                 9.31               106
June 30, 1990              12.20                 12.77               105
1991    December31, 1990            15.20                13.22                87
June 30, 1991              18.20                14.00                 77
1992    December 31, 1991           20.00                16.35                82
June 30, 1992                                   17.54               n.a.
1993    December31, 1992                                 18.47               n.a.
June 30, 1993                                   18.78               n.a.
1994    December 31, 1993                                19.86               n.a.
June 30, 1994                                    19.87              n.a.
1995    December 31, 1994                                20.00               n.a.
Date of Final Disbursement: October 26, 1994



- 17 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
As a line of credit, the main indicator of project implementation was the timing of
subloan commitment and disbursement. The line of credit was originally expected to be
fully committed by June 30, 1990 and disbursed by June 30, 1992, but implementation
delays postponed full commitment to December 1993 and completion of disbursement to
October 1994. Completion of the project's agroprocessing studies was essentially as
planned.
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
The key indicators for project operations provided in the SAR were in terms of project
loan operations and financial performance of GITC, level of provisions for bad debts, and
debt/equity ratios. The comparison of project and actual results is indicated in Annex D.



- 18-
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                      Purpose as defined at    Status         Impact of Study
appraisal/refined
Agroprocessing:       All subsector and analytical
studies were intended to be used
by Gansu authorities to apply
economic appraisal methodology
for policy formulation and for
planning industrial development
and diversification
Sugar beet                                      Completed Expand beet planting, increase
12/89  production of sugar and its by-
products.
Cooking vegetable oil -                          Completed Increase cooking oil, develop
12/89  food industry used gelatin.
Wheat straw pulp and                            Completed Strengthen raw material con-
paper                                            12/89  struction base, build several
paper and pulp plants, integrate
pulp production but divert paper
manufacturing to avoid the
pollution.
Fruit and vegetables                            Completed Expand the vegetable and fruit
bottling and canning                             02/90  canning and bottling, develop
fruit and vegetable drinks and
dewater vegetable processing.
Soybean derivatives                             Completed Expand soybean planting,
02/90  increase the variety of bean
derivatives.
Analytical:          Included in agroprocessing
studies as agreed with the Bank in
1989
Shadow price analysis
Economics of scale
Capacity utilization
Employment creation
and labor use
Efficiency of opera-
tions
Administrated prices
Subcontracting
Trade and payments



- 19-
TABLE 8: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(Loan Only)
During appraisal, the line of credit under GITC was expected to cover the greater of 50
percent of agreed subproject cost or 100 percent of foreign exchange costs. Total
subproject costs were not estimated as most subprojects were not yet identified at time of
appraisal.
Amount             Percent of
($'000)        Total Investments
Total investments                          59,700               100.0
foreign currency                         2,080                  3.5
local currency                           57,620                96.5
GITC (World Bank subloans)                 20,000                33.5
Commercial bank loans:                     20,000                33.5
GITC (non-World Bank subloans)              (0)                (0.0)
(Other bank loans)                     (20,000)               (33.5)
Local government funds                     11,040                18.5
Enterprise funds                            8,660                14.5



- 20 -
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
1.    No financial rate of return (FRR) or economic rate of return (ERR) for the
industrial component was calculated at appraisal because this was an IDF operation.
However, ERRs were calculated by GPC for the subloans at or above $300,000, and
FRRs were calculated by GITC for individual subprojects. Both ERRs and FRRs were
required to be above 12 percent, according to the Project Agreement. Based on a sample
of four subprojects, the ex-post FRRs and ERRs were lower than originally estimated due
mainly to increasing input prices and decreasing output prices. The input raw material
prices were substantially higher than subproject appraisal estimates while the product
sales prices were lower than anticipated.
2.    Subprojects were selected for calculation of ex-post ERRs and FRRs based on the
following criteria: (a) enterprises in different sectors; (b) two each from light industries
and rural industries; (c) two projects have started repayments and two have not, and
(d) one was successful and three less so. The four subprojects accounted for over 50
percent of the loan amount and at least 33 percent by number of subprojects that required
ERR calculations.
Beneficiary Enterprises              FRRs (%)                   ERRs (%)
Ex-ante      Ex-post      Ex-ante       Ex-post
Yongdeng Carbon Factory         27.0         12.8          46.8         18.2
Wuwei Textile Mill              27.0          9.1          37.1         14.0
Gansu Antimony Works            19.6          7.6          25.0         13.3
Lanzhou Gelatin Plant           20.9          5.2          24.8          7.9



- 21 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original
Agree-          Covenant Present  Fulfillment  Revised
ment  Section    Type    Status      Date      Date       Description of Covenant          Comments
Project 3.01 (b)    I        C    June30               Submission of audit reports
3.02 (a)    2         C    annually             Ratio of GITC's debt to equity
ratio would not be greater that
1.5 to I
Schedule:    3       C    6130/90      6/30/92  Applications of subproject to   Extended on February 29, 1991
A, 3(c)                                         the Bank on or before June 30,
1990
5 (a)       5        C    3131/88               Submission of Policy Statement
5 (b)       5        C    6/30/88               Adoption of Policy Statement
6 (i) &     2        CD    12/31/87             GITC to review lending portfo- Bank reviewed portfolio study
(ii)                                         lio. Write off bad debts resched- with Ganu over many months
uling, increase penalty interest  and different actions initiated
rate                       on loan collection and bad debt
provision
8           13       C    9130/87               Submission and adoption by
GEMI of curriculum on project
management and business
administration
9 (a)       13       CD    12/31/88    2/28/89  Completed three agroprocessing 1. Sugar beet
subsector studies          2. Cooking vegetable oil
processing
3. Wheat straw pulp & paper
9(b)        13       CD    12/31/89    2/28/90  Completed two more          1. Soybeans derivatives study
agroprocessing substudies  and
based on results under 9 (a)    2. fruit and vegetables bottling
and canning study
Covenant Class: I = accounts/audits;
2 = financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries;
3 = flow and utilization of project funds
5 = management aspects of the project or executing agency;
13 = other -- studies and training
Status:      C = covenant complied with
CD = covenant complied with delay



- 22 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Three subprojects were not in compliance with Bank Operation Manual Statements 4.01-
4.02, on  environmental analysis and  environmental action  plans.   The participating
enterprises did not comply with, and the local government authorities did not enforce, the
relevant Chinese environmental regulations.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
(Staff-weeks) La
FY            1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  Total
Preparation    15.8                                                                                   15.8
Preappraisal         21.9                                                                            21.9
Appraisal            42.2/b                                                                          42.2
Negotiations          0.1                                                                             0.1
Supervision                  7.5   26.5    6.4    7.5    1.6    3.4    1.0    0.0    0.4    1.0   55.3
Completion                                                                                     7.0/c  7.0
Total                                                                                             142.3
La From project preparation to completion, the three components were totally independent. There were no combined
missions.
/b Includes training of project staff by EDI and EA2 to prepare for project implementation.
La As of November 1996.



- 23 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Specialized    Imple-    Devel-
Stage of project cycle   Month! Number of  Days    staff skills    mentation   opment            Type of
year    persons  in field  represented Ln  status Lb   objectives        problems
Identification               Project preparation was preceded by a detailed review of
industrial development issues in Gansu as part of the
Gansu provincial study in 1985/86
Preparation           05/86       2        14       EC, EN
Preappraisal          07/86       6        14     EC, EN, FA,
00, RA
Appraisal              11/86      6       20      EC, 00, FA
Negotiation           04/87       3               EC, 00, FA
Postappraisal-Training   05/87    3        18       00, FA         2           2
Board approval        05/87
Signing               09/87
Effective             01/88
Supervision 1          10/88      3        15     EN, RA, 00       2          2             TA activities slow
Supervision 2          11/89      1        7          RA           2          2        TA and subloan commitments
slow
Supervision 3         02/91       1        5          RA           2           2            TA activities slow
Supervision 4         05/93       3        7        EC, 00         'L/         2        GITC financially bankrupt,
subproject procurement problems
Completion            08/96       2        11         00           2          3           Same as last supervision
/a EC: Economist; EN: Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; 00: Operation Officer; RA: Research Analyst;
/b 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory.
/c Ratings were more positive since the subloans had not yet entered into repayment, when poor performance became evident.






- 25 -                     ANNEX A
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
PREFACE
The report is about the completion of Gansu industrial diversification Component of
Gansu development project. The project was approved 14 September 1987, getting loan USD
20.0 million equivalent, credit SDR 410,000 (USD 500,000 equivalent) and put into effect on
1 January 1988.
According to the Credit Agreement, the loan should be finished on 30 June 1992.
Approved by the World Bank two times, the loan was actually ended on 30 June 1994, and
was drawn off by the time after the last payment day was made on 26 October 1994.
APPRAISAL SUMMARY
I. Project Objective
Medium and long-term credit would be provided to light and rural industrial
enterprises for technological transformation and capital construction, promoting higher
output and labor productivity, especially rural areas.
The project would also support training and technical assistance for implementing
agencies and enterprises on enterprise management, project appraisal and
implementation, and economic analysis and planning. A series of studies would be
undertaken on economic topics and selected agroprocessing industries.
The project would generate employment, expand light and rural industry
investment and output, upgrade appraisal procedures to select efficient investments,
introduce subsector studies as a basis for strategy formulation, developing implementing
agencies, and train individuals in management and technical skills.
II. Implementation Experience and Achievement
Of the 17 subprojects financed under the loan, 16 subprojects were completed
successfully except for 1 subproject, Longdong Vacuum Aluminum Paper Factory
(A-7F). That 20.0 million USD was put into the economic construction in Gansu made
up for the fund insufficiency. Supported by the loan, enterprises transformed their estate
structure were set up, and those with evident financial and economic effectiveness
became the main tax revenue enterprises in the local. Meanwhile, a lot of people with
managing and financial technology were trained in the local and many of the local
people, especially the rural areas, have the chance to become citizen due to the generation



- 26 -                    ANNEX A
employment.  The utilization of the natural resources in local strengthened the
development in agricultural product procedure.
Gansu Investment and Trust Company (GITC) will continue to manage 17
subprojects, try its best to collect the capital and interest due, expand new territory in
economic development. New product will be instead of old one on the basis of the
improving the management and the technology, which will have the loan achieved the
best economic results in Gansu Province.
III. Summary of Examination Result, Management in Future and Lessons Learned
The most successful experience in project is the subproject selection with two
distinguishing feature. 1) Most projects reflect that their setup has given sufficient
consideration to utilizing Gansu's resources in minerals, agriculture products and
by-products. 2) The projects adopt many domestic and foreign advanced technique and
equipment. Compared with the same domestic industry, these projects boast a starting
level, which lays an important foundation for their future development.
The most important lessons learned is that most of the subproject lost their
chances to make profit due to the planning economic policy in China, poor management,
domestic matching funds and the postponement of the project construction.
The plan of industry project management in future should hold identical views
with the development direction in GITC's management. GITC should carry out the
various guidelines, rules on balance proportion, policies and financial regulations issued
by the government for nonbank financial organization. The company should readjust the
structure of its assets, keep its finance healthy, expand its range of business, develop new
project and raise the efficient utilization rate of its assets.
PART ONE
APPRAISAL ON PROJECT COMPLETION
I. Background
Despite a substantial effort to develop industry in Gansu during the past 35 years,
the Province remains overwhelmingly rural, with agriculture the main source of
livelihood for the population. In the past, the industry strategy for the province gave
near-exclusive emphasis to a buildup of heavy industry using Gansu's considerable
natural resources in petroleum and metal ores (copper, nickel, etc.), coal and hydropower.
Further development of heavy industry based on natural resources will no doubt
continue to take the lion's share of investment capital in the province. But Gansu's
planners have also begun to turn their attention to another major resource-the generally
underemployed rural labor force whose earnings opportunities are currently restricted to
low productivity agriculture work. The Bank's Gansu Provincial Study also lends



- 27-                       ANNEX A
support to this line of thinking. The study points out that continued near-exclusive
emphasis on development of mineral-based heavy industry would do little to generate
nonagriculture employment and, if accompanied by continued restrictions on labor
mobility, would almost certainly result in a significant increase in the agriculture labor
force by the year 2000. This would put still greater pressure on the Province's fragile
natural resources base since even with major investments in irrigation, the population
depending upon rainfed agriculture would remain above the carrying capacity of the land.
Yields and output per worker in rainfed areas would probably stagnate or grow very
slowly, and the Government would have to continue its grain, water and fuel relief
programs.
The Study concludes that a concerted effort to develop labor-intensive industries
and services, relying on relatively low economic costs of its poverty problem. Such an
approach would involve support and stimulus for rural and light industries. These
generally require lower overall investment, are relatively more labor-intensive and could
distribute the benefits of growth more broadly than an exclusive emphasis on heavy
industry. These strategic considerations underlie the industrial diversification scheme
that forms the basis for the proposed project. In fact, there has been a significant shift in
favor of light and rural industries in recent years, as markets have been stimulated by
higher urban as well as rural incomes.
II. Project Objective
Support is proposed for Gansu Province's efforts to stimulate the diversification,
especially in rural areas, with the following components:
1. A fund of US$20 million equivalent for medium- and long-term subloans to
support investments in light and rural industry enterprises.
2.  SDR 410,000 (US$500,000 equivalent) to finance related training and
technical assistance.
3. Several economic policies and charges.
A. Rates:
In 1993 China gave up the RMB fixed rate loan system and adopted floating rate
system.
B. Taxes:
Our domestic tax system was single tax system in 1987, without any central or
local distinctions. Originally a favorable rate policy was made for the industry projects
funded by the World Bank's loans, which is called "repayment before tax" policy, i.e.,
paying sales after the projects put into operation, and exempt from income tax within the



-28 -                     ANNEX A
period of repayment. Now all the projects funded by the World Bank's loan are subject
to "local tax" system.
C. Price of Commodities:
Since China practiced parallel planned economy system and market economy
system, the prices of building materials have been adjusted, which also has had certain
impacts on the World Bank's projects. In this respect, however, Gansu province adopted
a partial favoring policy for the World Bank's projects, i.e., supply building materials
within the plan at prices cheaper than the market prices.  Now the prices are
fundamentally adjusted according to the market.
D. Foreign Trade:
The equipment imported for the industry projects funded by the World Bank's
loans are duty free, the projects' export products are favored with refund of duty. By
now, export duty has come down form 17 percent to 9 percent and all of the industry
projects have no license to export their product, their foreign trade were done by domestic
agent.
III. Project Content
1. Credit for Investments
A. Current provincial procedures will be used to identify prospective subprojects
in agroprocessing, pharmaceuticals, metallurgy, electronics, plastics, machinery, building
materials and other sectors by Provincial authorities.
B. Light industries, for which the Bureau of Light Industry is responsible, would
account for not more than US$8 million for at least four subprojects. Rural industries,
within the responsibility of the Bureau of Rural Industry would be supported by subloans
totaling at least US$12 million to at least 18 subprojects.
C. The loan would cover the greater of 50% of agreed subproject cost or 100% of
foreign exchange costs. For subprojects not utilizing foreign exchange subloans, the loan
would cover an average of 50% of the agreed costs of these subprojects as a group,
excluding the cost of land. Subproject sponsors would provide adequate equity to
conform to GITC's customary requirement that subborrowers finance at least 10% of the
cost of investments supported by credit.
D. The project would expand the capacity for project preparation and evaluation
in GPC through the application of modem economic criteria incorporating discounted
cash flow methodology. All subproject proposals for which subloans of US$300,000
equivalent or more are requested would be subjected to economic analysis to ensure that
they would have an economic rate of return exceeding 12%. Economic analysis would be



-29-                      ANNEX A
performed by GPC, which would give GPC the capacity to apply such analysis to all
investment projects, financed by GITC as well as other institutions in the Province.
2. Training and Technical Assistance
Objective
Training and technical assistance will be provided to promote project objectives in
the areas of enterprise management, project appraisal, implementation and economic
planning, help the managers in achieving new information and modem financial
management.
Groups
TTA target groups consist of enterprise mangers and cadres from agencies
responsible for project implementation, including GITC, Gansu Economic Management
Institute and GPIO.
Training and Scope
Gansu province organized an evaluation group. The Planning Commission and
the Economic Commission were responsible for the economic analysis for the group.
Study tours with specific objective or themes were organized for project implementation
staff. Office facilities were equipped for industrial diversification project organization.
Studies and Themes
Studies included in project are following agroprocessing: sugar beet, cooking
vegetable oil, wheat straw pulp and paper, fruit and vegetables bottling and canning, soy
bean derivatives, etc. Analytical included a series of studies of shadow prices, economics
of scale, capacity utilization, employment creation and labor use, efficiency of
production, administered prices, subcontracting and provincial balance of trade and
payments.
IV. Objective Achievement
1. Organization and Management
The World Bank's Gansu industry loan totals $170,000,000. The province
government attached extreme importance to the cooperation and specially set up Gansu
Province Execution Committee for the World Bank Loan projects. The governor of
Gansu province was appointed as the director of the committee, responsible for directing
the process of the projects.  GITC is the intermediate financial institution and is
responsible for the implementation of the project. The World Bank Loan Office is in
charge of the management and examination of the project.



-30-                      ANNEX A
2. Objective Achievement.
A. Choice: 17 industrial projects were chosen by the Planning Committee from
36 prepared projects.
B. Appraisal: Gansu province organized a branch projects evaluation group. The
Planning Commission acted as go-between and was responsible for the economic analysis
for the financial analysis; the Bureau of Towns and Villages and the Department of Light
Industry coordinated in the activities of the group. The investment company completed
the evaluation report on the first sexen projects, and the last ten projects were done by the
Planning Committee and GITC together. All the projects evaluation personnel have been
in the economic and financial analysis training course.
C. The Projects' Time Schedule:
From October 1986 to 1987-the preparatory and evaluation stage.
From March 1987 to May 1987-the negotiation stage.
From September 1987 to June 1992-the execution stage.
June 1992-the post evaluation stage.
June 30, 1992-deadline for loan draft.
The execution stage was two years later than the predetermined plan, and the
investment company and the World Bank Loan Office in Gansu applied two times to the
World Bank to postpone the date of draft. In the revised loan agreement, the deadline for
draft is June 30, 1994.
D. Payment:
The first payment for the loan was applied in 1989, and the last one for the loan
was approved on 26 October 1994. The payment amount was 100% of the loan in the
agreement.
E. Design, Invitation for Bid and Purchase:
Under the supervision of the World Bank Office and the Investment Company,
those leadership and personnel who had been trained for invitation for bid and purchase
for the World Bank's loan did the examination work for most key branch projects' design
and purchase, Gansu Province Project Equipment Bureau, Gansu Province Foreign Trade
Export and Import Company and China Technical Export and Import Corporation were
chosen as the agencies for industrial projects. Most of the industrial projects have
attained high engineering quality with reasonable price. As for equipment purchase,
under the guidance of "Shopping Around," they have also purchased high quality but
reasonable priced equipment. Only Wuwei Fengle Flax, Wuwei Huangyang Flax,
Tongwei Cigarette Reel Paper and the Longdong Vacuum Aluminum Factory did their
equipment purchase themselves, because the new technology and the equipment they
chose were produced in single factory in the domestic. But there were something wrong



-31-                      ANNEX A
with the equipment purchase in Tongwei Cigarette Reel Paper and the Longdong Vacuum
Paper Factory.
F. Investment:
The World Bank Loan Office and GITC always follow the World Bank's guiding
rules in using the loans, and spent the most of the funds in purchasing the key equipment
for the branch projects, and only part of the funds in the main civil engineering
construction. The domestic matching funds are mainly used in the projects' prior period
construction and part of the supplementary engineering equipment in mid-later period.
All the loan projects put together, the ratio between the World Bank's loans and the
domestic matching funds is 1:3. With different projects, the channel for raising domestic
matching funds are different. The main sources are: People's Bank of China, Industry
and Commerce Bank, Agriculture Bank, Construction Bank, Bank of China, Liangxi
Investment Company, the Finance Bureau of Gansu Province, and self-raising.
G. Result
The seventeen branch projects that acquired loans from the World Bank, with the
exception of the Longdong Vacuum Aluminum Factory project (A-F), were all completed
according to the construction contents of the evaluation reports for the branch projects.
The most construction projects passed the completion checking by the department
concerned, and were accepted. What is worth of mentioning is that the most engineering
work of Yongdeng Carbon Plant, Wuwei Textile Mill, Minqin Sugar Plant, and Xifeng
Pigment Plant projects is ranked at provincial-level high quality. The equipment
purchased by Wuwei Textile Mill, Lanzhou Rubber Factory and Minqin sugar Plant
reached the advanced level of same industry in the country.
The project that has problem in construction is Xifeng Longdong Vacuum
Aluminum Factory.  Because of the failure in purchasing vacuum electroplating
aluminum foil production equipment, the project host unit changed the construction
contents. The World Bank urged to rebuild this project within the stipulated period, or
GITC should redeem the loan in lump sum. The World Bank Loan Office and GITC did
a big amount of work to discuss with Qingyang District and Xifeng City, put forward
opinions and write up memorandum. But this problem is still not solved, because
Qingyang District and Xifeng City are seriously short of funds.
H. Beneficial Results:
In the seventeen branch projects, some have achieved financial economic results,
some will do.
These projects mostly have products that enjoy markets demands. The most
successful project is Yongdeng Carbon Plant. Calculated according to comparable price,
with the price changing factor of the raw material considered, the various economic



-32 -                     ANNEX A
indices of Yongdeng Carbon Plant have already met the requirements of the evaluation
and design. In the past six years, the plant's production scale have already doubled, and
it also repaid GITC all of the loan principle.
The World Bank branch projects that have already gone into commercial
production have achieved tax and profit 1025 thousand RMB yuan in 1995.
I. Repayment:
According to the Loan Agreement, the World Bank's $20,000,000 loan would
begin their repayment from the year of 1989.
3. Training and Technical Assistance
As training and technical assistance is one of the important part in industrial
projects, Gansu province paid great attention to using the $500,000 SDR technical
assistance. It was used for the following items for the province:
A. Equipment Purchase:
Subloans under Credit Line Component was used for office equipment and
vehicles which was greatly improved the efficiency of the project implementation.
B. Training and Study Tour:
Training: Having completed training in the plan, we promised to have more
training in different ways with the spare fund.
Training made by Gansu Economic Management Institute
More study courses were planned after six 60-day GEMI courses in project cycle
management were finished. Rural and light industry enterprise managers and supervision
were trained to improve and expand in modem project appraisal methodology. About
1,000 people attended the training course, 400 people among them were from industry
projects, the rest came from project implementation institution in the province.
Short and Long-term Training
Staff in GITC and the World Bank Loan Office not only took part in the courses
held by GEMI, but also took part in courses in the need of the practical works at the same
time.
All the courses played an important role in the provincial industry projects and
better improved the management of the staff. It also gave an opportunity to GEMI to
improve itself.



-33 -                     ANNEX A
According to the statistics, 90 percent of trained people had led an important part
in their posts, and 15 percent were raised by the managers.
Study Tour
The training courses raised the personnel's theoretic and practical operating
levels, and observation and investigation in the same industry.  The study and
investigation abroad widened these people's vision and enabled them to learn matured
experience. All the people have greatly benefited from having their trainees' quality
raised, which has in turn played an important role in working with the World Bank's
loans.
C. Management Information System (MIS)
MIS was began by the World Bank Loan Office in 1989, and was completed in
1993. MIS made the finance, payment, contract, purchase and supervision in the industry
project more scientific systematic and standardization.
D. Subproject Study
E. Consultant Specialist:
With the advice given by the World Bank, consultant specialists were invited
from the World Bank, from the Economic Development Institute, Lanzhou University
and Gansu Provincial Computer Center. Those specialist offered useful suggestions and
guidance for training and execution.  They also made contributions to offering
information and evaluation, actively helping complete the projects. With their help, we
improved us in project investigation, project appraised, contract management,
investigation for bidding on construction, loan draft, equipment, procurement, finance
management, and project supervisory and information systematic. The World Bank and
the Finance Bureau of China were satisfied with us in the way of jointly organizing with
Shanghai Finance Institute.
V. Implementation Notes and the Main Reasons Affecting the Projects
1. The execution stage was two years later than the predetermined plan. The
main reasons for the postponement are:
A. The investment company is an intermediate onlent financial institution, which
does not have independent authority to select and establish projects and becomes the
possessor of credit and debt only, thus leaving the projects selection and evaluation
disjointed and an indistinct line drawn between responsibility and right. This affected the
progress.
B. Lack of strict and scientific project base management system. There had been
much change to the listed branch project loans. Some projects that were listed in the



-34-                       ANNEX A
World Bank's plan were not mature, and some were simply not listed. At the time when
the projects had to be changed, time was already wasted.
C. Some projects, which were already approved by the World Bank, were not
ready to be construction, for lack of domestic matching funds. This affected loan draft
and construction.
D. The loan draft for the branch projects should have been done by the end of
1990, but was practically carried out by the end of 1992. Because this was the first time
for Gansu to execute the World Bank's projects, and as a result of the change in the
branch projects, the loan draft was delayed for two years.
E. In the lastly approved projects, there were some large-scale ones that would
take big investment and long time to build, and their loan draft procedures were
complicated.
2. There is a general sizable gap between the actual projected at evaluation,
which are reflected in:
A. The actual sales are less than projected, while the costs are higher than those
projected.
B. The projects' testing production periods are too long to keep the production
costs generally low.
C. The time needed to reach the normal designed capacity is longer than
projected in evaluation report.
D. The financial return rates of the most projects have not met the requirements
set out in the projects' evaluation reports.
E. The loan repayment period is longer than what is projected at evaluation.
The Reasons for the Differences are:
A. Some projects, such as Lanzhou Gelatin Plant and Tongwei Cigarette Paper
Factor, had to postpone the construction, for not enough domestic matching funds
secured. This greatly affected the beneficial results of the projects.
B. Some projects were completed as planned, but the raw material and the market
situations already had quite a big change, and this affects the beneficial result. Wuwei
Textile Mill, for example, cannot run at full capacity, because of the supply of raw
material is much less optimistic than projected. The supply cannot meet the demand of
production, even the price of the raw material has been doubled. With the pigment plant,
its products still have certain problems in sale.



- 35 -                     ANNEX A
C. Since 1987, China's economic system has had a big change, and the prices of
many products also have had big changes. This leads to the big difference between the
practical and the evaluated productive effectiveness.
D. The evaluation reports generally are over optimistic about raw materials and
the sale market, and most projects' beneficial results and repayment period are set at a
number too far away from being practical.
E. Questionable management led to stunted effectiveness. For example, the
problem in procurement at Longdong Aluminum Foil Factory affected their construction,
and Jingtai Calcium Carbide Plant, the accident of the key equipment was burned by a
fired caused a direct economic loss of almost RMB $3,000,000.
F. In their test production periods, most projects were subjected to the change in
the market. They slowly adjusted themselves to the influence of market competition.
3. The Main Reason for Poor Repayment in Subproject:
As of today, only Yongdeng Carbon Factory was fully repaid in 1995. In the 17
subprojects financed under the loan, the main reason for the poor repaid is as following:
A.  During the construction stage, some enterprises were failure to obtain
sufficient counterpart fund as required and agreed in the subproject appraisal reports.
Some enterprises were loaded with debts because most of their fund were borrowed from
banks.
B. During the construction stage, some enterprises diverted their working capital
to financial fees due to no sufficient fund.
C. After project completion, some enterprise had to operate simply due to
insufficient working capital.
D. Although subprojects were strengthened that the World Bank had the priority
in loan repayment, the collection is still low because GITC has no supervisory measures
as the Commerce Banks do.
E. Some subprojects were badly deficient, raw material either not available in
sufficient quantity or too expensive to be affordable, product not marketable and product
sales prices much lower than estimates.
F. With insufficient working capital due to traingular debts, fund for repayments
are used for working capital purposes and new investment.
Measures for Collection:
It is too difficult for GITC to collect industry project loan. In the past several
years, GITC took the same hits on industry loans as on other overall portfolio of GITC.



-36-                       ANNEX A
Loan collection were done by taking legal procedure, both the industry loans and GITC's
overall portfolio. Staff are asked to collect loans at the same time.
There was credit risk at the beginning of the project for GITC and the finance
bureau of Gansu province. It will be helpful for the economic development in Gansu
province and GITC if the loan can turn over three or four times in twenty years. GITC
will catch the chance in the rest ten years, the industry loans overdue will be recovered
actively to achieve the original target in the business plan.
VI. Project Continuation
Looking into future, we believe most projects have broad prospects, but they still
have the following problems to be solved:
Gelatin project: It has the tendency of not being able to meet the demand of its
market, although the evaporation and drying equipment it imported ranks the most
advanced in China. If the working capital is sufficient, it can expect beneficial before
long.
Antimony project: After the two major problems-transportatioin of the mineral
and insufficient electricity supply-being solved, production of scale will take shape.
The product of this project enjoys an excellent market both in China and abroad.
Textile project: This project has already produced various high-quality linen yarn,
but still cannot meet the demand of the market. It has an excellent prospect. However,
the raw material that Gansu province can supply to the plant is only less than 10% of the
amount designed, it can only depend on the high-priced material from other provinces, or
maintain production by processing supplied material.
Calcium Carbide project: This project can produce high-quality calcium carbide,
which has a good market. The production was restored in 1995 after a transforner
substation had been built.
Paper-making project: The problem that merits attention most in this project is
guaranteeing the quality of the product.
Pigment project: This project can produce the product that will be internationally
certified. It has an advanced production line, and its construction is of good quality.
What is needs is multichannels through which to make a breakthrough in the market.
Fluorite project: It has a good market, but also has the problem of too much
accounts receivable. In the following five years, it can run at design capacity.
Harvester project: The enterprise has actual strength and high technique. The
enterprise has already produced new agricultural machines in the need of the market both
domestic and abroad. The enterprise will make a profit of 20 thousand RMB yuan in



-37 -                     ANNEX A
1996 and the loan under the World Bank will be repaid during the year from 1997 to
1998.
Strontium Salt project: The project is lack in technique and the pollution is also
serious. GITC suggests that the enterprise must be stopped producing, and be taken back.
Packaging Material project: The good-quality product is fairly competitive within
the five provinces in the northwest and has a good market.
EVALUATION OF THE WORLD BANK
The World Bank took the reform of the management and financial system of the
Investment Company seriously, which has enriched the Investment Company's operation
with the thinking and new pattern, and made the company's management develop in a
more standardized and more scientific direction. The World Bank also has offered
guidance and joined the work in reducing the company's accounts receivable, remaining
its healthy finance, formulating its strategic targets, financial and business plans.
In training the personnel, the World Bank offered the utmost concern and support,
and in the meanwhile gave good advice on the invitation of the consultants.
The World Bank also attaches importance to industry's coordinated development
in Gansu province. Instead of simply granting loans, the Bank offers theoretic guidance
and strengthens the research work, which is where it is superior to the other foreign
investments. In addition, the World Bank takes environment protection and employment
problems seriously.
The rigorous and serious working attitude and style of the World Bank's
leadership and personnel, incorporated with their high efficiency in work and high-level
work quality, has positive impact on the Gansu part.
EVALUATION OF THE BORROWER
1. The People's Republic of China. The loan agreement is to be signed by
Ministry of finance and the World Bank. Ministry of Finance, Gansu Finance Bureau and
Gansu Investment and Trust Company are to sign the loan onlent agreement, with GITC
as the intermediate onlent institution. The project management branch executing units
are Gansu Planning Commission, Gansu Finance Bureau and the World Bank Loan
Office.
2. As the intermediate onlent institution, Gansu Investment and Trust Company
will remain the only nonbank financial institute in Gansu province. By now, the
company's total assets reaches $9.1 hundred million yuan, tax and profits $1.2 hundred
million yuan.



-38-                      ANNEXA
A. Business operation in recent 3 years:
Financial position of GITC remains weak, GITC has carried out a short-term
business plan for the next three years in view of this situation. Firstly, the direction of its
operation is to support the development of Gansu provincial economic construction. The
company will work hard to enliven its fund inventory. Secondly, readjust the structure of
its assets, raise the efficient utilization rate of its assets. Thirdly, work hard to widen its
business scope so as to meet the need of the market economy.
B. GITC always puts its emphasis on improving its portfolio quality, reducing its
overdue loans and safety financial management. The main reason for the weak financial
position of GITC is: no scientific appraisal on projects; due to insufficient working
capital, enterprises are not repaying even they are financial capable of repayment;
triangular debts is the most important reason for overdue loans; managerial capability and
lack of leadership make the enterprises in arrears.
Overdue loan collection and improvement of its portfolio quality: Firstly, a
collection plan has been worked out, 3000-3500 hundred yuan will be recovered per year
from 1994 to 1996. Secondly, measures for settlement has been drawn up, including
responsibility for guarantees, assess staff with their collect amount, debts cleared up by
the law and supervision with the help of the local financial institution.
ACHIEVEMENT APPRAISAL
Of the 17 subprojects financed under the loan, judged with its management, the
first-rate subprojects are Yongdeng Carbon Factory, Wuwei Textile Mill, Minqin Sugar
Factory, Jiaojiazhuang Fluorite Concentrating, Xifeng Natural Pigment Factory, Zhangye
Reaping Machine. The second-rate are Gansu Antimony Works, Jintai Carbide, Tongwei
Cigarette Reel Flax. The third-rate are Wuwei Huangyang Flax, Wuwei Fengle Flax,
Jiayuguan Strontium Salts. The fourth-rate is Longdong Vacuum Aluminum Paper
Factory. By now, problems is serious in the 17 industry subprojects, but they still are
part of developing district in Gansu province. These subprojects have a historic effect on
agriculture development, industrial structure adjustment, resource utilization, worker
employment, tax income and private personnel income, etc.
BUSINESS PLAN IN THE FUTURE
To make practice collection plan, GITC is going to renew contracts with
enterprise, some of contracts have been done by now.
Loan collected will invest on safety and efficient projects for the second time
according to the examination and approval procedure of the World Bank.



- 39 -                    ANNEX A
MAIN EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
Main Experience
The industry projects setup is successful, which has the two following
characteristics: 1) Most projects reflect that their setup has given sufficient consideration
to utilizing Gansu's resources in minerals, agriculture products and by-products. 2) The
projects adopt many domestic and foreign advanced technique and equipment. Compared
with the same domestic industry, these projects boast a higher starting level, which lays
an important foundation for their future development.
It is undoubtedly correct to have determined that the key investment should be in
developing light industry and towns and villages enterprise. The textile, calcium carbide,
dried bean curd, rubber, carbon, and fluorite enterprises have already gained profits,
offering an average monthly income of about RMB $300 to 3,404 direct employees. At
the same time those industry concerned, such as service industry, transportation, and
mining industry have flourished, bringing along the employment of agriculture
population and the increase of its income. Evidently, these enterprises have become the
important local economic backbones.
The World Bank's industry projects management, which comprises a series of
procedures, measures, and principles in project investigation, setup, evaluation, contract
management, invitation for bidding on construction, loan draft, equipment procurement,
and project target management, plays a supervisory and guaranteeing role in organizing
building and executing the industry projects.  This industry project management
methodology has been used for reference or has been applied in our own loan work. In
the execution of the loan projects, a team of industry projects management specialist has
been fostered, who are mostly in towns and villages enterprises. These people will
become the nucleus in developing Gansu's towns and villages enterprises.
Lessons Learned
GITC has no total autonomy in project selection, project setup, evaluation, loan
draft, project approval, project management and examination, which are conducted in
separate departments. In the area of finance: The construction of some projects are
postponed, because some projects have not secured domestic matching funds and some
projects have not sufficiently estimated the unforeseeable expenditures.
Attention should be paid to comprehensive investigation. In the past, projects
investigations only emphasized the evaluation of economic results and social results,
neglecting observing especially high-level management human resource in the area of
technique and finance. Therefore, the industry projects more or less had problems in
construction, equipment procurement, test production and sale.



- 40 -                      ANNEXB
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
An ICR mission' visited Gansu from July 29 to August 6, 1996 to initiate
preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the industrial component
of the Project. The mission visited seven subprojects in Yongdeng, Wuwei, Mingqin,
Zhangye, Jiayuguang and Lanzhou. Disbursement of the component started in 1989 and
completed in 1994.  Project entities had prepared a draft ICR of the component for
mission review and discussions. The draft aide memoire was discussed with Gansu
authorities2 on August 6 in Lanzhou. The mission was very appreciative of the Gansu
authorities in their efforts in preparing all information required in short notice3 and their
cooperation.
Subproject status, issues and achievements under the Loan
* Of the 17 subprojects financed under the loan, 16 subprojects were completed. One
subproject, Longdong Vacuum Aluminum Paper Factory, was not completed due to
technology and procurement problems.
* As of today, only two subprojects were rescheduled:
=> The Yongdeng Carbon Factory, doubled its production capacity from project
design and the subloan was fully repaid in 1995. Loan repayment was re-
scheduled once.
=> The Jiaojiazhuang Fluoride Concentrates Factory was scheduled once and has
started principal and interest repayments. It is producing at 83 percent of its
installed production capacity.
* The remaining 15 subprojects have also entered into repayment stage according to
their original repayment schedules, yet, due to delayed starts after Bank approvals and
slow implementation, all are unable to repay GITC and are technically in arrears.
Seven have repaid small amount of interest and principal due. All 15 subprojects
should either be rescheduled according to their current production and operations
status or be considered for more radical remedial actions, such as legal pursue of
repayments through their guarantors, repossession and sale of assets, closed
I Comprised of Helen Chan, Naiqin Lu and Maoqi Zhang.
2 Gansu Finance Bureau, Gansu Planning Commission, Gansu Rural Industries Bureau, Gansu Light
Industries Bureau, Gansu Environmental Protection Bureau, Gansu Investment and Trust Corporation
(GITC), Gansu Economic and Management Institute (GEMI) and Gansu Project Implementation
Office (GPIO).
3 On July 20, 1996, the mission explained to GPIO and GITC the ICR preparation requirements.



-41-                       ANNEX B
production, etc. As a result of delayed in project implementation, 1995 production of
the subprojects were much lower than subproject appraisal estimates:
=> three were producing between 70 and 92 percent of installed production capacity,
=> six at about one third of installed capacity,
=> two at less than 20 percent of installed capacity,
=> two at less than 10 percent of installed capacity, and
= two were not producing the intended output and have ventured into other
production which are not successful as well (the Tongwei Cigarette Reel Paper
and the Longdong Vacuum Aluminum Paper Factory).
* Factors leading to slow subproject implementation:
=> failure to obtain sufficient counterpart fund as required and agreed in the
subproject appraisal reports,
> immature technology and lack of technical support, and
=> lack of leadership and managerial capability
*  Problems encountered after project completion:
> insufficient working capital due to triangular debts,
raw materials either not available in sufficient quantity or too expensive to be
affordable,
> poor procurement leading to equipment not performing as expected,
= markets changes-product sales prices much lower than appraisal estimates and
products not marketable, and
=. poor project and enterprise management
*  Issues encountered:
= some subprojects create serious environmental problems,
some enterprises are heavily loaded with debts with low equity base,
=> some enterprises are not repaying even they are financial capable of repayment.
Instead, fund for repayments are used for working capital purposes and new
capital investment.
=> local ITCs which were supposed to help GITC to supervise subprojects were all
closed in 1993/94 due to financial difficulties and also because they did not meet
the criteria under the new PBC regulations for nonbank financial institutions.
GITC tried to set up administrative offices in local areas but all were closed as
well in 1994 because of the new PBC regulations. GITC is left with no
supervisory network. It would be difficult as well as expensive for GITC to
supervise these subprojects as they are scattered all over the Gansu province.
* Achievements already accomplished by subprojects that would succeed eventually.
There would be about 2/3 of all subprojects, including those that were technically in
arrears in 1995. They have been slow in implementation, yet have good business
prospects, and are expected to be financially capable to repay GITC in the next two
years with revised repayment schedules:
=* create industrial employment in agricultural areas,



-42-                      ANNEX B
= raise rural income,
=> utilize indigenous raw materials and create value-added in agricultural products,
= lead to proliferation of other supporting industries and services in the vicinity of
the subprojects, and
=> develop managerial and technical skills in rural areas,
Lessons learned
*  Autonomy-GITC should have total autonomy to make investment decisions and not
only choosing investment projects from government selected list.
*  Project appraisal-Appraisal should pay much more attention to financial evaluation
of projects and enterprises, with special emphasis on repayment capabilities; market
analysis of both raw material supply and final products; managerial capability of
enterprises; technical support from reliable technical sources; confirmed counterpart
funding; and economic analysis. Appraisal had been very optimistic on all aspects
and the subprojects were expected to reach designed capability soon after completion.
Repayment terms were too short for the projects to reach break-even points to have
repayment capabilities
*  Subloan agreement-GITC should revise the agreement to include, inter alia, that the
borrower not to incur any new debt unless a pre-agreed debt/equity threshold has been
met, legal obligations of guarantors be clearly spelled out, regular submissions of
progress reports, financial and physical, to be submitted, procurement to be carried
according to agreed procedures, etc.
3  Procurement-Enterprises should entrust procurement to procurement agencies;
GITC's concurrence of the agencies would be necessary. GITC should supervise
procurement more closely.
*  Sound investment-GITC should not continue to put good money on top of bad
investment and/or inefficient enterprises, even though GITC had invested into the
enterprises already.
*  Reporting-Regular reporting from enterprises should be strengthened to form the
basis of effective project monitoring and management.
*  Free from influence of local government authorities-Tax revenue to the local
economy should not be the top consideration in investment decisions. This appeared
to be the case with many investment projects in Gansu.
*  Legal and loan repayment awareness-Gansu authorizes should prormote this
awareness through active promotional campaigns.



- 43 -                     ANNEXB
Recommendations
*  After plant visits, the mission recommended GITC to revisit all subprojects and
prepare a realistic remedial work programs for all delinquent subprojects based on
their 1995 and 1996 production status and market potentials. For those subprojects
that have special problems, more radical actions would have to be considered. GITC
may need government assistance in some of the more radical actions, particularly to
plants with environmental problems and the two projects (Tongwei Cigarette and
Longdong Aluminum) that have serious technical and procurement problems that
could not be savaged. Thus, the tables on subproject status in the draft ICR are to be
revised accordingly and submitted to the Bank by August 31, 1996.
* For those subprojects that have serious environmental concerns (including Wuwei
Fengle Flax Mill, Wuwei Huangyang Flax Mill, Jiayuguang Strontium Salts Plant,
and there could be others), concerned Gansu authorities, such as the Environmental
Protection Bureau, Finance Bureau, Planning Commission, Rural Enterprise Bureau,
Light Industries Bureau and GITC should work together in determining whether
stopping production would be the best solution by undertaking a careful cost and
benefit analysis (Annex 2 for details). A detailed environmental assessment should
be carried out immediately.
Gansu Investment and Trust Corporation (GITC)
*  Financial position of GITC remains extremely weak. Collection rate had increased
from 10 percent in 1994 to 22 percent in 1995. Arrears as percentage of total loans
outstanding decreased from 46 percent in 1994 to 39 percent in 1995. Net income
after tax as percentage of total assets had increased from virtually zero in 1994 to over
1.5 percent in 1995. Based on financial results in the first half of 1996, GITC is
confident that its financial position would further improve in 1996 and the years
ahead.
*  Due to its extremely low collection ratios, its main emphasis in the past few years had
been in loan collection and improvements of its portfolio quality-a strategy reflected
very clearly in its business plan submitted to the Bank in 1994. The mission had
requested that GITC to send the Bank the results (1994 to 1996) of the initiatives
indicated in the 1994 business plan and its business plan for the next three years. The
mission shared GITC's expectation that it would turn around financially if the action
program initiated was carried out effectively.
*  At the end of 1995, about 67 percent of its arrears were overdue for more than two
years. The mission suggested that GITC to undertake a detailed portfolio review in
evaluating the recovery possibility of these arrears and to take decisive actions in
writing off noncollectible bad loans, such as loans extended to enterprises no longer
exist or in operations, on a timely basis. Given the arrears ratio and its aging profile,
a 2 percent bad debt provision is clearly insufficient to cover nonrecoverable bad



-44-                         ANNEX B
loans. GITC should sought agreement from relevant authorities to increase its bad
debt provision to about 5 percent to cover possible write-off. The most appropriate
percentage would depend on the outcome of the portfolio review.
* With PBC regulations on nonbank financial institutions and asset/liability ratio
management since 1994, GITC has to adjust to operations in view of its failure to
achieve certain assets/liabilities ratios, such as collection and arrears ratios. GITC
could not extend any long term loans until it has reached the required ratios.
Technical assistance component under the Credit
*  Subsector studies-Five studies-sugar beet, cooking vegetable oil processing,
wheat straw pulp & paper, fruit & vegetable bottling & canning, and soybean
derivatives-were completed by February 1990.  Economic studies4 originally
identified as independent studies during Project appraisal were incorporated into the
subsector studies with agreements from the Bank in 1989. In general, the subsector
studies were well prepared and the Gansu Planning Commission confirmed that these
studies were instrumental in some policy and investment decisions during the Eighth
Five-Year Plan (1990-95). The mission asked impact assessment studies to be
prepared and sent to the Bank by August 31, 1996.
*  The mission suggested that the studies be revised and new subsector studies be
initiated as the Gansu economy had changed substantially since 1987. Gansu agreed
to the idea but indicated that it would take time and financial resources.
*  Training-All project entities, including project entities from the agriculture and
education components of the Project, the Health Project, and all subproject
beneficiaries, had benefited from different types of training. All training were free to
participants. Training included project evaluation, project management, financial
management, business accounting and finance, computer applications, project
supervision, foreign language and rural enterprises management. Training were
conducted by different training institutes in China with a variety of teaching
methodologies.  Case studies with on-site plant visits were ranked highest by
participants. Course post evaluations indicated that these training were very helpful
to both project implementation agencies and beneficiary enterprises. The Gansu
Economic and Management Institute (GEMI) was the chief organizer and offered
most of the training. GEMI identified a few areas that could make training to be truly
instrumental:
=> educational level of participants to be adequate for the training offered;
=> right choice of participants to particular courses; and
z> selection of appropriate training institutes for selected courses and participants.
4  Shadow pricing, economies of scale, capacity utilization, employment creation, efficiency of
operations, administered prices, subcontracting, and trade & payments.



-45 -                      ANNEX B
Proposed schedule in completing the ICR
1996
August 31           Gansu sends revised draft to the World Bank with complete
statistical tables
Sept.30             Bank team  finishes draft ICR  and submits to divisional
management for review
Oct. 15             Bank sends complete ICR draft to Gansu for comments and
endorsement
Nov. 15             Gansu send endorsements to the Bank
Dec. 10             ICR covering all three components: Agriculture, Education and
Industry, send to Department management for approval
Dec. 20             China Department send ICR to the Board of Directors of the Bank



-46 -                      ANNEXB
Annex 1: Agreed Actions
Agreed actions                        Agencies                     Date
.  Impact assessment reports of five  Economic Research Institute of  August 15,
subsector studies                  Gansu Planning Commission    1996
.  Statistical tables with data on subproject GTIC                 August 31,
commitments, disbursement, production                           1996
and repayments status
*  Remedial work plan for 16 subprojects  Gansu authorities: Planning  August 31,
from August 1996 with proposed     Commission, Finance Bureau,   1996
revised repayment schedules        Environmental Protection
Bureau, Light Industries Bureau
and, Rural Industrial Bureau; and
GITC
.  Ex-poste FRR and ERR for 4         GITC, Gansu Planning         September
subprojects /a                     Commission                   15, 1996
.  Results of the policy initiatives  GITC                         August 31,
indicated in the 1994 business plan and                         1996
business plan for the next three years
/a Four would constitute about 24 percent by number of subprojects. Selection criteria
would be (i) two light industrial and two rural enterprises subprojects, (ii) some
successful and some unsuccessful subprojects, (iii) two have started repayment and
two have not, (iv) two enterprises financially viable and two not viable, and (v) they
should be from different subsectors.



-47 -                      ANNEX B
Annex 2: Impressions and Issues of Subprojects Visited
A-02-Yongdeng Carbon Factory
* Well managed and lots of initiatives. Production in 1995 was already doubled of its
designed capacity.
*  A success story of the Project. All project objectives were basically achieved:
=' create industrial employment (390 jobs created) to absorb abundant labor in the
township area;
= raise rural income. Its workers averaged Y 5,000 per year as compared to the
average income of Y 1,000 in the township;
=> lead to development of support and service industries in nearby areas. The
township becomes the wealthiest township in the county;
=> improve social enviromnent by donations to renovations and construction of local
schools, hospital, irrigation and transportation;
=' raise knowledge in management and finances in local areas; and
=> utilize indigenous raw materials.
*  Basic success criteria are there, such as:
=> strong management and technical support from its mother company;
adequate equity base-60 percent equity from mother company and 40 percent
from the township where it locates. Local people helped built the workshop in
exchange for equity and employment;
-' market guarantee-it has contractual agreements with its mother company to buy
its products at market prices if its products meet required specifications;
~- strict production quality control;
=' no new loans prior to reaching its designed capacity; and
> prepared to venture into other related production so that it would not be totally
dependent on one single product in the long and medium term.
* However, its awareness of repayment obligations was the same as most other
enterprises. It did not repaid GITC even though it was profitable since 1994. GITC
recovered its loan only through legal actions.
A-03-Wuwei Textile Mill
* Supply of quality flax (its basic raw materials) were insufficient in despite of
building two new flax mills by the Wuwei government in nearby areas to ensure
supply. Flax purchased locally is generally of interior quality than it needs to produce
quality linen threads to remain competitive.



- 48 -                     ANNEXB
* Both domestic and international markets have changed after project has started
implementation. Its products-linen threads-are not competitive both in quality and
prices.
* 40 percent of the cost overrun was due to delay in project implementation. It was
very short of working capital. It reached 81 percent of designed production capacity
in 1995.
. Suggestions-It should diversify its products by looking for joint venture
opportunities with linen manufacturers (cloth and/or clothing) in other provinces and
foreign countries. It could take the form of subcontracting, joint production, joint
stock and other forms of joint ventures. It would bring value added to local economy
by manufacturing linen products which would have high profit margins. It would
also bring technology, marketing information and management assistance into the
company. The mission did not think it is advisable to further invest in linen
manufacturing.
A-08-Wuwei Fengle Flax Mill
* Due to shortage of counterpart fund, pollution facilities were not installed. Water has
been discharged directly into nearby areas without treatment, thus seriously polluting
water supply and creating heavy odor in local areas. There is a school less than a mile
away and the odor is very apparent there. The plant received lots of complaints from
nearby residents of the odor that it creates. Due to shortage of water, the plant has
constant conflicts with local residents.
e The plant was very short of working capital and owed farmers (who provide them
with flax) Y 600,000 in 1995. It currently employs 30 workers; other than this, there
were no other social benefits. On the contrary, it has created serious air and water
pollution.
* Quality of its flax is not competitive both in quality and prices. Import flax are of
better quality for linen production.
* Suggestions-The mission strongly recommended that a comparative cost/benefit
analysis to be carried out before any further production and before any new
investment extended by the local government or by GITC. Cost and benefits
estimates should include:
=* installment of water treatment facilities,
> treatment of wastewater to reduce odor,
z alternative investment in other businesses to absorb current workers of the plant,
=  additional cash to keep the plant in operations (that means it would continue
polluting water in the area and affecting health of local people).
=' benefits that it brings to the local economy now and in the future with and without
additional new cash inflow, and
=  investment in deep water wells to assure sufficient water supply



-49-                       ANNEX B
A-11-Jiayuguang Strontium Salts Plant
* The plant has serious pollution problem. Due to lack of working capital, pollution
facilities had not installed, even though they were originally included in the project
design.
= Wastewater (with waste deposits from hydrochloride acid and ammonium
hydrogen carbonate) was not treated and was discharged directly into
underground water, eventually they would be seeped into rivers and streams.
Emissions of NO2 and SO2 would lead to acid rain which would create serious
harm to agricultural products, plantation, fisheries and erosion of the nearby Ming
great wall.
=> Dust and hazardous gas emission from processing of strontium sulfide. Odor is
unbearable. It is a serious health hazardous to workers and local residents.
= Smoke emission from buring of raw materials.
*  Original technology did not work. The plant has been trying to refine/change
technology; yet due to lack of technical staff and investment capital, it was not able to
find a suitable solution. Production so far was only 1/5 of original production design.
However, the plant and local government believe there is a market for strontium
carbonate, thus would like to expand production capacity to 5,000 MT from its
current project design of 1,500 MT. The plant is currently looking for new capital
fund.
*  The market looks promising on the surface as the larger producers in Germany, the
United States and Japan, had stopped production because of serious pollution
problems and the costs to control them. China has four large producers in Jiangsu,
Shandong, Sichuan and Henan, each with 10,000 MT and above. Each has pollution
problems.
* Suggestions-The mission strongly recommend local government, the plant and
GITC to estimate:
> cost to treat the water and air damage already created and the hazardous health
effects to its workers,
=> cost of installing proper and effective pollution control facilities,
=> cost of technology transfer and new capital fund that are needed to bring the plant
into a financially healthy plant,
' its comparative advantage in producing strontium carbonate as compared to other
plants,
= benefits that the plant would bring to the local economy,
=> cost to improve its technical and managerial capability in capturing a larger
market share with the existence of other larger plants, and
=> cost of alternative business opportunities to absorb local abundant agricultural
labor.



- 50-                      ANNEX B
Only after these estimates and a detail costlbenefit analysis could one decide
whether the plant should continue production and raise new investment capital.
further. On a macro level, the country should review production of this product
nationwide because of the seriousness of its pollution problems should the country
sees a market opportunity.
A-12-Minqin Sugar Factory
* Project was completed in 1993 with a designed production capacity of 12,870 tons of
sugar. Project cost was $3.1 million. In spite of severe shortage of equity and
working capital, two additional projects were implemented simultaneously in 1993
and 1994: alcohol and feedstock utilizing waste from sugar production. Project cost
for these two new projects were about $12.6 million (Y 64.4 million at the exchange
rate of 5.13), 90 percent were debt-financed. The Construction Bank provided 51
percent of the financing.
3 The enterprise had not been profitable and has serious liquidity problem. In 1995,
sugar production was 46 percent of installed capacity. Coupling with depressed sugar
prices and shortage of raw material (beet), the factory suffered a net loss of Y 5.5
million in 1995 and a net loss of Y 9 million for the first six months of 1996. As
sugar is not expected to improve substantially from the current Y 3,800 per ton in the
near future, the plant would remain financially trapped and had no debt repayment
capability in the foreseeable future. Nor does the plant has the repayment obligation
awareness.
* Technically, it is logical to set up a sugar, alcohol and feedstock production as one
comprehensive project so that the by-products are fully utilized to avoid waste and
water discharges; thus minimizing pollution problems. The plant has 590 workers
and 70 percent of them are from rural families. Their monthly income of Y 300 is
much higher than local peasants. However, there are two serious basic issues:
> There was a 20 to 30 percent self-financing requirement in project finance in the
sugar production project that the Bank helped financed. Yet as soon as the project
was approved by the Bank, the enterprise went ahead with the alcohol and
feedstock projects. Thus seriously undercut the financing scheme of the project
which led to insufficient counterpart funding and delayed project implementation.
Local authorities admitted that it was a deliberate plan as the comprehensive
project of production in alcohol, sugar and feedstock would cost more than Y 64
million ($12.6 million) and that would require central government approval. By
separating the project into three smaller projects of about $3 million each, local
authorities avoided the necessity of going through the central government.
=> Financially, it is impossible for a new enterprise with no equity base to repay
loans of Y 64.4 million even if all three projects are profitable.



- 51-                       ANNEX B
*  Suggestions-Despite current difficulties, there are prospects for the plant to grow
into a viable enterprise as the workshops are well constructed and project designs are
basically acceptable. Nonetheless, the enterprise should, as soon as possible:
= explore the possibility of converting some government loans into equity to reduce
its debt financing obligations,
> recruit experience process engineers for both sugar and alcohol production;
=> increase the yield of sugar by applying more advanced beet process technology;
> set up contractual relationships with beet producers to get a stable beet supply;
and
=> analyze the influence of smuggling of import sugar to domestic sugar
manufacturers. In this respect, Gansu Planning and Economic Bureaus should
coordinate and be in charge of the study with all Gansu sugar manufacturers as
active participants.
B-03-Zhang Ye Reaping Machine (harvester) Plant
*  When the subproject was prepared in 1991, market share of smaller harvesters
diminished in favor of larger harvesters. The plant had inventory buildup of about
3,000 small harvesters. In spite of this, GITC5 approved the project (not sure whether
GITC was aware of the situation) and the subproject was launched to double its
production capability.
-  With declining market and prices, the plant suffered heavy losses in 1993. There was
a change in plant management in 1994 and a three-year rectification program was
launched to diversify its product mix and to focus on marketing strategy.
Diversification is possible because its equipment are general equipment and could be
adjusted to other production which the market demands. Production and sales in the
first half of 1996 already indicated that the plant could be turn around into a profitable
operation by the end of 1996.
*  The new management team was very impressive and the mission shared the view of
GITC that the plant would be able to repay the loan with a reasonable rescheduled
repayment term.
*  This subproject has fulfilled all other project objectives and if the plant repays the
subloan on time with the reschedule term, then it could be considered to be a
successful subproject.
5  The mission understood that this subproject was basically prepared by the Gansu Planning
Commission.






- 53 -                     ANNEX C
ANNEX C: LIST OF SUBPROJECTS/SUBLOANS-AMOUNTS
DISBURSED
Subloan No.            Name of Subproject            Amount Disbursed ($)
A-1      Lanzhou Gelatin Plant                       2,710,000.00
A-2      Yongdeng Carbon Factory                     1,341,596.13
A-3      Wuwei Textile Mill                          3,311,071.91
A-4      Gansu Antimony Works                        2,695,337.58
A-5      Jingtai Calcium Carbide Factory             1,601,714.24
A-6      Huixian Bean Products Factory                 249,503.76
A-7      Longdong Vacuum Aluminizing Factory           652,466.13
A-8      Wewei Packaging Material Factory              279,368.08
A-9      Wuwei Fengle Flax Mill                        239,931.52
A- 10    Tongwei Cigarette Paper Factory               999,731.77
A-11     Jia Yu Pass Strontium Salt Factory            646,921.09
A- 12    Minqin Sugar Factory                         3,099,167.46
A-13     Lanzhou Dunhuang Pharmaceutical Plant         850,195.32
B-1      Wuwei Huangyang Flax Mill                     239,429.21
B-2     Jiaojiazhang Fluorite Concentrates Factory     298,090.59
B-3      Zhang Yu Reaping Machine Factory              282,061.06
B-4      Xi Feng Natural Pigment Factory               489,639.50



ANNEX D: GITC-COMPARATIVE (ACTUAL AND PROJECTED) FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS FOR YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1987 TO JUNE 1996
(Y million)
PROJECTED                                                         ACTUALS
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Income Statements
Total Income                  18.17    25.41    31.39    33.17    33.51    10.55    12.90   7.91    16.43    14.23    11.12    23.30    22.09    41.93    29.76
Total Expenses                 5.61    10.27    15.29    18.95    21.11    1.41    5.03     3.49     4.00     4.11    4.70     4.70    16.93    26.60    6.06
Net Income before Inc. Tax    12.56    15.14    16.16    14.22    12.40    9.14     7.87    4.42    12.43    10.12     6.42    18.60    5.16    15.33    23.70
Income Taxes                   6.61     8.02     8.30    7.40     6.79     5.64    4.86     2.93     0.03             0.15     9.56     1.22     2.87     1.37
NetIncome                      5.95     7.12    7.80     6.82     5.61     3.50    3.01     1.49    12.40    10.12     6.27    9.04     3.93    12.46    22.33
Balance Sheet Statements
Cash/due from banks           9.66    30.12    46.17    70.49    95.25    9.51    31.11    32.75    35.56    30.28    39.24   4.83    36.60    27.91   108.22
Current assets                 8.11     8.16    10.21    8.29    68.26    17.70    8.54     7.04    12.80    30.85    55.14    22.18    57.95   106.04   189.54
Investment Loans:
-local currency            378.59  427.54  455.88   459.30  462.71   323.83   362.19   372.86   362.85   384.28   384.63   453.27   505.87   625.92   631.04
-foreign currency                             38.85    66.50    14.46
-Working Capital loans                                                  10.64    10.21    20.62    26.02    20.26    27.83    26.60    22.11    19.70    20.10
TotallnvestmentLoans         378.59   427.54   494.73   525.80   477.17   334.47   372.40   393.48   388.87   404.54   412.46   479.87   527.98   645.62   651.14
less: Accu. Provisions        1.26    2.56     4.06     5.49    6.94     0.89     4.08     4.73    7.00     9.53    12.15    11.42    11.42    11.40    11.40
Net Investment Loans         377.33   424.98   490.67   520.31   470.23   333.58   368.32   388.75   381.87   395.01   400.31   468.45   516.56   634.22   639.74
Long-term Investments          4.20     5.70    13.20    16.20    19.20    1.90    9.37     9.84     7.45     7.45    7.45     7.30    10.94    30.89   30.89
NetFixedAssets                0.97     0.89     1.51    1.41     1.31     0.96    0.90     0.97     0.84     3.20    3.12     3.44     8.39     8.00    8.11
Other Assets                                                                                                                  0.06     1.43    12.72    15.51
TOTAL ASSETS                 400.27   469.85   561.76   616.70   654.25   363.65   418.24   439.35   438.52   466.79   505.26   506.26   631.87   819.78   992.01
Deposits:                     10.95    20.95    30.95    40.95    55.95    7.86    44.99    51.04    28.53    28.20    39.58    56.69    62.03    69.17   133.17
-local currency              10.95    20.95    30.95    40.95    55.95    7.86    44.99    51.04   28.53    28.20    39.58    56.69    62.03    69.17   133.17
-foreign currency
Current Liabilities            6.16     5.70     5.23    5.00     5.00    19.48    25.45    19.08    24.15    43.97    69.31    15.49    31.80    48.11   133.83
Total current Liabilities     17.11    26.65    36.18    45.95    60.95    27.16    70.44    70.12    52.68    72.17   108.89    72.18    93.83   117.28   267.00
Long-term Debts:              33.91    76.82   141.22   170.29   182.23    5.39    8.01    29.26    29.25    29.25    29.25    88.90   167.87   319.78   319.78
-local currency              33.91    76.82   102.57    94.07    79.00    5.39    8.01    29.26    29.25    29.25    29.25    88.90   167.87  319.78   319.78
-foreign currency                             38.65    76.22   103.23
Total Long-term Debts        33.91    76.82   141.22   170.29   182.23    5.39    8.01    29.26    29.25    29.25    29.25    88.90   167.87   319.78   319.78
Other liabilities
Equity                       349.25   366.38   384.36   400.46   411.07   331.10   339.79   339.96   356.59   365.37   367.12   345.18   370.17   382.72   405.23
TOTAL LIAB. & EQUITY         400.27   469.85   561.76   616.70   654.25   363.65   418.24   439.34   438.52   466.79   505.26   506.26   631.87   819.78   992.01
RATIOS:
Current Ratio                  1.04     1.44     1.56    1.71     2.68     1.00    0.56     0.57     0.92     0.85    0.87     0.37     1.01     1.14     1.12
Long-term debt/equity ratio    0.10     0.21     0.37    0.43     0.44     0.02    0.02     0.09     0.08     0.08    0.08     0.26     0.45     0.84    0.79
Total Debt/equity              0.15     0.28     0.46    0.54     0.59     0.10    0.23     0.29     0.23     0.28    0.38     0.47     0.71     1.14     1.45
Net Income/Equity (%)          1.70     1.94     2.03     1.70    1.36     1.06     0.89    0.44     3.48     2.77     1.71    2.62     1.06     3.26     5.51
As % of total assets:
-total income                4.54     5.41     5.59     5.38    5.12     2.90     3.08     1.80    3.75     3.05     2.20     4.60    3.50     5.11     3.00
-netincome                    1.49    1.52     1.39     1.11    0.86     0.96     0.72    0.34     2.83     2.17     1.24     1.79    0.62     1.52     1.12
-administrative/other expense  0.55   0.45     0.49     0.43    0.39     0.96     0.43     0.20     1.41    1.10     0.61     1.63    0.14     0.39     n.a.
Sources: Actual financial data from 1987 were from GITC's audited reports and projected data from the Staff Appraisal Report of the Industrial Diversification comonent, Gansu
Provincial Development Project.






IMAGING
Report No.: 
Type:     ICR



