Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16422-CHA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
GANSU PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2812-CHA/CREDIT 1793-CHA)
PART II-EDUCATION COMPONENT
March28, 1997
Rural and Social Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name = Renminbi
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
At appraisal: $1 = Y 3.7
At completion: $1 = Y 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOE      -  Bureau of Education
EPIO     -  Education Project Implementation Office
FILO     -  Foreign Investment and Loan Office
GEI      -  Gansu Education Institute
GIER     -  Gansu Institute for Educational Research
GPIO     -  Gansu Project Implementation Office
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
ICR      -  Implementation Completion Report
LCB      -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOF      -  Ministry of Finance
PBOE    -  Provincial Bureau of Education
SEdC     -  State Education Commission
SOE      -  Statement of Expenses
SPC      -  State Planning Commission
TA       -  Technical Assistance
UBE      -  Universal Basic Education
Vice President        : Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director              : Nicholas C. Hope, EA2
Division Chief        : Joseph Goldberg, EA2RS
Staff Member          : Sandra Erb, Consultant (Education), EA2RS



FORWARD              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
1.    Project Background. The Gansu Provincial Development Project comprises
three components for agriculture, education and industrial diversification. The Project
was identified based on the findings of a 1986 Bank study, Growth and Development in
Gansu Province, carried out to assist the Central and Provincial Governments in
developing an overall strategy for income growth and poverty reduction. In the early
1980s, 41 percent of Gansu's population lived in poverty, compared to 13 percent
nationally, and rural per capita incomes were the lowest nationwide. The Bank study
identified a range of issues facing the province but found three problems acute. First,
incomes and living standards in the province's upland region of Dingxi were found
particularly low. Dingxi had 30 percent of the provincial population -- almost all
employed in agriculture, a larger proportion of rural poor, irrigation of only 13 percent of
the cultivated area and a shortage of drinking water, and an urgent need for land
rehabilitation to counter erosion of the loess soils and to introduce appropriate agricultural
production systems. Second, restrictions on labor mobility combined with unsustainable
pressure on the province's fragile natural resource base argued for the development of
labor-intensive rural industries relying on low-cost labor. Third, improvement of the
educational system, particularly of teacher training in basic education, was identified as
critical, in view of international experience showing education's prime role in allowing
mobility to more remunerative nonagricultural employment, adoption of improved
agricultural technology, and -- for women -- fertility reduction, improvement in family
health and retention of children in school.
2.    Project Design. To address these problems, three separate projects were
prepared and appraised. However, when the amount of Bank Group assistance for
education and industrial diversification had to be scaled back to reflect provincial
repayment capacity, the three operations in different sectors were processed together as
components of a single Gansu Provincial Development Project, financed by Ln. 2812/
Cr. 1793-CHA. The agriculture component received $130 million equivalent of credit
proceeds, the education component $20 million equivalent of IDA funds, and an IBRD
loan of $20 million and credit proceeds of $500,000 equivalent went to industrial
diversification.
3.    The project's agriculture component comprised construction of the technically
challenging 57,000-ha Yindaruqin irrigation scheme, settlement of the irrigated area by
15,000 poor farm families from nearby resource-poor areas, land improvement over
75,000 ha in Dingxi's Guanchuan River Basin, and institutional support. The education
component included upgrading of facilities for training primary school teachers, expansion
of facilities for training lower secondary school teachers, increased in-service teacher
training via expansion of television training facilities, improved science education in 400
lower secondary schools in poor counties, and support to enhance education
administration and management. In support of industrial diversification, the project
provided a $20 million line of credit to finance small- and medium-sized subprojects in
rural and light industry, as well as training and technical assistance for the enterprises
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
assisted and the project financial intermediary, the Gansu Investment and Trust Company
(GITC). While the province assumed the interest rate and exchange rate risks on the Bank
loan, GITC bore the commercial risk.
4.    Project Outcome. The project's agricultural and education activities were,
overall, successfully implemented, although a two-year extension of the credit was
required to complete the agriculture component's Yindaruqin Irrigation Subcomponent.
That subcomponent, entailing major tunneling works with difficult site conditions and
complex engineering, suffered from poor performance by some contractors, lack of
counterpart funds, and bureaucratic land settlement processes. Some on-farm works and
land settlement activities are still ongoing with local funding. The Guanchuan
subcomponent in Dingxi raised farmers' incomes by almost 250 percent three years after
completion of works, while net incomes of farmers in the Yindaruqin area have eventually
increased by 136 percent for the low-income group and by 55 to 60 percent for others.
The land rehabilitation program tested under this and other projects has been subsequently
refined and used in the Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2616), among
others.
5.    The education component, the first Bank Group education operation focused on
only one province, increased the number of qualified primary and lower-secondary school
teachers, improved the quality of science teachers and education in poor counties, and
improved the capabilities of education administrators in the design, development, and
implementation of educational programs. The capacity building for educational
administrators and managers was important for continued improvement of the system.
The administrators and managers trained under this project helped design and implement
the subsequent Third Basic Education Project (Cr. 2831 -CHA).
6.    The industrial diversification component attempted to raise rural incomes in
resource-poor areas with limited agricultural potential and a population surpassing the
carrying capacity of the land. Since labor migration in China at the time was allowed only
in the context of limited, officially sanctioned programs like the one under this project's
agriculture component, the project attempted to provide in-situ assistance to the rural
poor by promoting nonagricultural employment. While the provincial study cautioned
planners "to look carefully at the policy and institutional environment that would facilitate
development of productive nonagricultural jobs in Gansu" (para. 3.01), implying
inadequacy in the current environment, the severity of rural poverty in Gansu, where some
parts of the population had to rely on government provision of grain, water and fuel relief,
was considered adequate justification for piloting limited support to employment
diversification.
7.    Implementation of the component showed the project's goals in the sector to be
overambitious and the study's warning to be justified. While 17 subprojects received
funding for modem equipment and technology and small civil works, financial
performance of the beneficiaries -- 55 percent of which were non-state rural enterprises --
suffered from many problems. Among these were subborrowers' inexperience in
enterprise management, shortages of counterpart funds during implementation and of



iii
working capital during production, and economic reforms introduced during the project
period that caused enterprise costs to rise significantly and demand for their products to
fall. With most project enterprises still producing at less than 50 percent of capacity, their
loan repayment to GITC suffered as did GITC's financial condition. Positively, however,
technical assistance and training provided under the project introduced provincial planners
to the concepts of financial and economic analysis of investments, and this appreciably
improved local planning capabilities.
8.    Assessment of Project Strategy. The project responded appropriately to
provincial needs as identified in the Bank Group study. It also provided experience with
various types of sectoral interventions aimed at poverty alleviation. Although this project
predates introduction of the current Bank Group poverty alleviation strategy in China,
with its targeting of whole operations to specific poor counties identified by the central
and provincial governments, the agricultural component was well focused by emphasizing
the Dingxi Region. The education component addressed the province's general need for
better qualified teachers and did target poor counties for improved science teaching.
Moreover, it was followed by the poverty-targeted basic education project series,
including the Third Basic Education Project which covers Gansu and six other provinces.
The industrial diversification component required about half of the subprojects to be in
rural areas.
9.    The issues with respect to rural industrial development are its difficulty as well as
its value relative to other possible interventions for poverty alleviation. Experience
internationally indicates a high failure rate in town and village enterprises, and the ongoing
China Southwest Poverty Reduction Project (Ln. 3906/Cr. 2744-CHA), a well planned,
integrated multi-sectoral initiative in Guangxi, Guizhou and Yunnan Provinces, has in its
first year disbursed little for a small township and village enterprise development
component. This suggests the difficulty in using rural industrial development as a poverty
alleviation tool.
10.   The Gansu Provincial Development Project's highly successful land development
component in Guanchuan proved the effectiveness of using a package of measures to
improve loess soils. In much of the Loess Plateau, covering 640,000 square kilometers of
Gansu, Shaanxi, and Shanxi Provinces and the Autonomous Regions of Inner Mongolia
and Ningxia, good new land can be readily and cost-effectively created by mechanized and
manual terracing of the soft soil, where slopes are not too steep and population has not yet
exceeded carrying capacity. Using the approach tested under this project, the Bank
Group-financed Loess Plateau Project (Cr. 2616-CHA) being carried out in several
provinces including Gansu, the Shanxi Poverty Alleviation Project (Cr. 2834-CHA) and
the Gansu Hexi Corridor Project (Ln. 4028/Cr. 2870-CHA) are raising agricultural
productivity and the incomes of very poor farmers over a wide area of the Yellow River
basin.
11.   Summary. Although the Gansu Provincial Development Project lacked some of
the design sophistication now brought to the Bank Group's poverty reduction efforts in
China, it significantly improved the incomes of very poor farmers, enhanced educational



iv
quality in poor and other areas of the province, and demonstrated the difficulty of rural
enterprise development. The land improvement package tested under the project proved a
highly effective means of raising agricultural productivity and reducing poverty. The
follow-up Loess Plateau, Shanxi Poverty Alleviation and Gansu Hexi Corridor Projects
are now replicating and building upon the significant achievement of the earlier initiative.



CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................................................ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................................v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................1
A. Project Objectives .......................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .......................................................              4
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...............7
D. Project Sustainability .......................................................8
E. IDA  Performance .......................................................9
F. Borrower Performance .......................................................9
G. Assessment of Outcome ......................................................                          10
H. Future Operation .......................................................                              10
J.  Key Lessons Learned ......................................................                           10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .......................................................                                11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                                              .1
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits (Education Component) .12
Table 3: Project Timetable .13
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual .13
Table 5: Key Indicators For Project Implementation .14
Table 6: Studies Included in Project .15
Table 7A: Project Costs in $ Million ...........................................                         15
Table 7B: Project Costs in Y  Million ...........................................                        15
Table 8:    Key Indicators for Project Operations ........................................... 16
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits ............................................                     16
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ...........................................                         16
Table 1 1:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........................ 17
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (All Components) .......................... 17
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ............................................                         17
ANNEX A: MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE .................................................                                      19
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ........................... 22
ANNEX C: BORROWER'S OPERATION PLAN ............................................... 39






- 111 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
GANSU PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2812-CHA/CREDIT 1793-CHA)
EDUCATION COMPONENT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Gansu Provincial
Development Project: Education Component, for which Credit 1793-CHA in the amount
of SDR 15.83 million or $20.0 million equivalent was approved on May 12, 1987 and
closed on June 30, 1995, with one extension of a year of the original closing date. The
last disbursement was made on July 13, 1994, and the total disbursements were 100
percent of the credit amount.
The ICR was prepared by Sandra Erb, EA2RS, of the China and Mongolia
Department of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office and reviewed by Joseph
Goldberg, Division Chief, and Yo Kimura, Project Advisor. The borrower provided
comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission September 21-23, 1994. It is based on materials in the project files as well as
those received during the completion mission. The borrower participated in preparation
of the ICR by contributing views reflected in the October 19, 1994 project completion
mission Aide Memoire, preparing their own evaluation of the project's execution and
preparation and commenting on the draft ICR.






- v -
CHINA
GANSU PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2812-CHA/CREDIT 1793-CHA)
EDUCATION COMPONENT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Description
1.   In 1984, the Government of China stepped up its 1979 reform agenda by adopting
a plan that emphasized the need for breakthroughs in areas such as upgrading managerial
personnel to meet the new demands in a reformed economy; advanced technology and
scientific research; and systemic reforms of education and training to develop China's
human capital potential. This was followed by a May 1985 "Decision on Reform of the
Education Structure," which called for, inter alia, universalizing nine years of basic
education and strengthening education management at all levels.  In 1986, the
Government of China passed the "Compulsory Education Law" under which nine-year
Universal Basic Education (UBE) was to be achieved by the year 2000. As decreed by
the central government, the Gansu provincial government was then developing action
plans to universalize basic education, and then initiated a series of actions designed to
support the achievement of UBE and improve the quality of basic education. This
component of the Gansu Provincial Development Project supported the Government's
efforts to achieve UBE and improve the quality of education in primary and lower
secondary schools in Gansu Province chiefly by increasing numbers, qualifications, and
status of teachers. To achieve this goal, the project set out to: (a) increase the output of
qualified lower secondary school teachers by expanding the capacity of five normal
colleges from about 3,500 to 8,200 to accommodate both the preservice and inservice
trainees; (b) improve the quality of preservice primary teacher training by upgrading the
facilities of 23 normal schools; (c) reduce the number of unqualified teachers by assisting
the Gansu TV Education Institute to expand its inservice training program to cover the
entire province through the establishment of prefectural and local training centers;
(d) improve science instruction in the 400 lower secondary schools in poor counties;
(e) improve the quality of education administration through the establishment of a Center
for School Administration to train school and government education administrators; and
(f) improve the management of education through assistance for continuing the
development of a new school supervision system and for planning improvement to the
system for managing educational information.



- vi -
Implementation Experience and Results
2.    During the five-year project implementation period, the overall implementation of
the project went well. The total credit amount of SDR 15.83 million ($20 million
equivalent) was disbursed and the indicators to monitor overall progress under the project
(Table 5) were met or exceeded. The Gansu Implementation Office operated throughout
the life of the Project and provided the necessary oversight required for smooth
implementation activities associated with each institute such as civil works, procurement
of project equipment, purchase of books and training.
3.    Achievements of project objectives as measured by the development impact
indicators set out in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) can be summarized briefly,
(a) Normal College regular enrollments were overachieved but inservice targets were not
met; (b) Normal School enrollments were not met but graduate targets were
overachieved; (c) lower secondary science targets were met; (d) the TV Education
Institute targets were met or surpassed; (e) the Training Center for School Administration
achieved its enrollment targets; and (f) the technical assistance targets were also met.
4.    During the implementation of the project, China suffered considerable inflation in
1993, which increased the costs of building materials substantially, thus having an impact
on project-supported civil works. During that period of time, some of the project-
supported civil works came to a halt, and it was only after new agreements were reached
with contractors in 1994 that it was possible for the full civil works programs to continue.
Although this did not have an impact on the final targets of the overall project, there was
serious delay for one year in the procurement of project-supported civil works.
5.    The project was designed based on close cooperation between IDA and the Gansu
Provincial Government. This was the first Bank Group project in education with an
individual province and therefore, it was essential to establish good communication
channels with the Provincial Government. The Bank Group mobilized a team of
qualified experts to work with the Gansu Provincial Education Bureau and the county
education bureaus so that the province could be prepared to play a larger role in the
preparation of future projects. IDA supervision missions visited Gansu and continuously
monitored the implementation of the Project.  The overall assessment of IDA's
performance was satisfactory. In line with a good record in designing, preparing and
implementing the IDA-assisted education projects, Gansu Province demonstrated
satisfactory performance in preparing and implementing the first IDA Provincial Loan.
6.    Major factors affecting the implementation of the project were: (a) acceleration of
the national goals to achieve UBE gave strong impetus to the provincial authorities to
move forward their own teacher training goals, especially in the area of science teaching;
(b) moderate increases in national categorical funding for poor and minority children's
student assistance started to be allocated to Gansu Province, augmenting scarce resources
to support education at the provincial level; and (c) the national policy on production of



- vii -
TV courses changed from emphasis on provincially produced and recorded programming
to nationally produced and satellite transmitted material.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
7.    Overall Outcome. The overall Project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The
Provincial Government was able to increase the number of qualified primary and lower-
secondary school teachers, improve the quality of science teachers and science education
and improve the quality of education administrators.  National education projects
developed through the State Education Commission (SEdC) in Gansu Province have
shown that the Gansu Education administrators have a high level of capacity for both
design, development and implementation. During the preparation of the Third Basic
Education Project (Cr. 2831 -CHA), the IDA team was able to use the Gansu Institute for
Educational Research (GIER) as well as the staff of the Gansu Education Bureau to
conduct analytical work associated with a household survey used in the economic and
financial analysis for the project. This illustrates the institution and capacity building that
has resulted from the Gansu Education project.
8.    Sustainability. Measures of project sustainability are faculty and education
administration training and development as well as operation and maintenance of
facilities and equipment and enrollment. All of the civil works construction was
completed by 1994. The quality of the construction seemed good, with facilities only
starting to show signs of wear from normal use. SEdC and the Gansu Provincial Bureau
of Education will need to pay particular attention to the maintenance of the facilities
constructed under the project and start a regular maintenance program. Large numbers of
faculty and staff were trained during project implementation which, no doubt, contributed
to improvements in faculty qualifications. However, to sustain the investment, the
province will need to allocate the necessary resources to continue the upgrading of staff
in both the project and nonproject area. Of particular importance is the provision of
science training for nonproject areas so that they can reap the gains in science education
that the project areas have gained. The province will need an overall professional
development strategy that is continuously updated.
9.    Future Operations. The Government and the Association discussed an outline
for the attached Operation Plan (Annex C) during the October 1994 implementation
completion report mission. The report reflects the decision of the Government to
continue the financial support necessary to sustain the gains made in the project as well as
ways to further promote the implementation of science education in the nonproject areas.
The Operation Plan provides estimated levels of support for maintaining facilities, faculty
development, and expanding lower secondary science education. The Government of
China, Gansu Province and the Association have negotiated a Third Basic Education
project which builds on and expands considerably the experiences of the Gansu
Education Project and through the Basic Education III project the Province and the
Association will be able to monitor the progress of teacher training institutes as they
begin to work toward sustaining the benefits of this project.



- viii -
10.   Lessons Learned.   The main  lessons learned  from  the  component's
implementation are: (a) single-province projects demonstrate the advantage of focused
Association and provincial attention to a limited number of important provincial goals
and bring to implementation the energy and concentration necessary to attain the goals;
(b) the education component of this multisectoral project benefited from the high level
and continuing attention of a group of provincial policymakers responsible for carrying
out the full range of Association-supported project activities; (c) the provincial focus
afforded both the province and the Association the opportunity to bring to bear provincial
resources, such as GIER, which through its research, added value to both this and
subsequent Association activities in Gansu; and (d) for projects carried out during periods
of unforeseen inflation, project supervision needs to be increased during the inflationary
periods to prevent slippage in attaining goals, especially in the area of counterpart
funding.



- 1 -
CHINA
GANSU PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2812-CHA/CREDIT 1793-CHA)
EDUCATION COMPONENT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    Project Objectives and Scope. The project sought to support the Government's
efforts to achieve Universal Basic Education (UBE) and improve the quality of education
in primary and lower secondary schools in Gansu Province by increasing enrollment
ratios and improving the status of teachers. To achieve this goal, the project set out to:
(a) increase the output of qualified lower secondary school teachers by expanding the
capacity of five normal colleges from about 3,500 to 8,200 to accommodate both the
preservice and inservice trainees; (b) improve the quality of preservice primary teacher
training by upgrading the facilities of 23 normal schools; (c) reduce the number of
unqualified teachers by assisting the Gansu TV Education Institute to expand its inservice
training program to cover the entire province through the establishment of prefectural and
local training centers; (d) improve science instruction in the 400 lower secondary schools
in poor counties; (e) improve the quality of education administration through the
establishment of a Center for School Administration to train school and government
education administrators; and (f) improve the management of education through
assistance for continuing the development of a new school supervision system and for
planning improvement to the system for managing educational information.
2.    The project development impact indicators' were: (a) increase Normal College
preservice enrollments and graduates from 3,291 and 240 in 1986 to 5,800 and 2,400
respectively in 1992, and increase the teaching staff from 635 in 1986 to 1,025 in 1992;
(b) increase Normal School enrollments and number of graduates from 14,257 and 3,894
respectively in 1986 to 17,000 and 4,500 in 1992; (c) strengthen lower secondary school
science by building 400 labs, training 800 science teachers and 400 laboratory assistants
by 1992; (d) expanding, by 1992, the offerings of the TV Education Institute by opening
393 new centers, offering 8 new courses, and enrolling cumulative totals of 36,000
primary school teachers, 29,000 lower secondary school teachers, 7,000 certificate-
seeking primary school teachers; and 7,500 lower secondary school teachers;
1 Project development indicators have been extracted from the text of the Staff Appraisal Report and
reviewed during the ICR mission.



- 2 -
(e) increasing the numbers of students enrolled in and graduated from the Center of
School Administration from 50 and 0 respectively, in 1986 to 400 and 200 in 1992, and
(f) by providing 300 person-months of domestic and 6 person-months of international
technical assistance to improve the educational management information system.
3.    Sector Development Objectives. At the time of appraisal, the Bank Group's
lending strategy consisted of four lines of action: (a) support for basic education and
teacher training; (b) increased emphasis on the education and training needs of economic
sectors that the Government and the Bank Group consider priorities for development;
(c) support for technical and vocation education; and (d) continued support for higher
education.
4.   In early projects, the Bank Group focused on the development of higher
education, in accordance with the Government's priorities.  In addition, the Bank
completed sector work in support of the Government's policy to expand the vocational
and technical education systems to meet the growing needs for skilled manpower and
technical assistance in management education. The Gansu basic education project was
the first Bank effort to assist the Government in their efforts to train primary and lower
secondary school teachers and improve the quality of educational administration at those
levels in one province. This was done in response to the Government's desire to achieve
UBE through financial support directed at the expansion and improvement of inservice
training of lower secondary school teachers, the provision of textbooks and other learning
materials and relevant technical assistance.
5.    Policy Context. To address problems of economic inefficiency and structural
imbalance, the Government initiated a program of reform and adjustment in 1979 that
focused primarily on invigorating China's rural economy. In 1984, the Government
reaffirmed and consolidated the positive results of the earlier reform and adjustment
program and adopted a reform plan that emphasized the needs for breakthroughs in areas
such as: (a) upgrading managerial personnel to meet the new demands in a reformed
economy; (b) extending utilization of foreign capital, advanced technology and scientific
research; and (c) systemic reforms of education and training to develop China's human
capital potential.
6.   In May 1985 the Central Committee of the Communist Party announced its
"Decision on Reform of the Education Structure." The reform called for universalizing
nine years of basic education, expanding vocational and technical education at secondary
levels, increasing enrollment and autonomy of higher education institutions, and
strengthening education management at all levels. On the basis of the decision to reform
the education structure, the Government passed the "Compulsory Education Law" in
1986, under which nine-year UBE was to be achieved in stages: (a) in the cities and
coastal areas by 1990; (b) in towns and villages with a medium level of development by
1995; and (c) in the more remote areas, at rates commensurate with the economic
development of each area. This policy was reconfirmed in the outline for "Reform and



Development of Education in China" issued by the Central Committee of the Communist
Party of China and the State Council in February 13, 1993.
7.    As decreed by the central government, the Gansu provincial government
developed plans to universalize basic education. (Gansu was and is classified as an
economically backward area and thus set its own timetable for achieving UBE.) In the
initial stages, the province strove to achieve eight-year basic education, based on five
years of primary school and three years of lower secondary school. In his discussion of
the then new Compulsory Education Law, Li Peng, then Vice Premier and Chairman of
SEdC, noted the difficulty poor provinces would have in financing nine years of
compulsory education and stated "we should allow the existence of the five-and-three
academic system in the transitional period."2  Thus, provincial plans for achieving
compulsory school were consistent with the national policy. Within this framework, the
provinces decided to devote a major effort to first achieving universal (five-year) primary
education and then expanding access to lower secondary school.  Full student
participation in a primary education program was to be realized in all but a few remote
areas between 1990 and 1995; the net enrollment rate in 1995 was projected to be 95
percent. Full lower secondary participation was to be attained in about half of the
counties by 2000 with the remainder reaching this standard subsequently; province-wide,
the 1995 enrollment rate was projected to be about 65 percent. The actions taken by the
province in reaching UBE and improving the quality of education were to serve as a
model for other poor provinces in China faced with similar problems.
8.    Between 1985 and the time of project appraisal in late 1986, the province had
initiated a series of actions designed to support the achievement of UBE and improve the
quality of basic education. These initiatives formed a coordinated action program with
three objectives: (a) to increase enrollments in basic education; (b) to assure a supply of
well-qualified teachers; and (c) to provide adequate school facilities. To achieve these
objectives, the province planned to: (i) assist poor families to pay school fees;
(ii) encourage girls to enroll in school; (iii) expand the capacity to train lower secondary
teachers; (iv) expand teacher upgrading programs to cover all unqualified primary and
lower secondary teachers; (v) reduce the number of minban teachers; (vi) subsidize the
salaries of existing minban teachers; (vii) repair dilapidated buildings: (viii) supply
school furniture; and (ix) build appropriately located lower secondary schools.
9.    Linkages between Project, Sector and Policy Objectives. In order to address
both the sectoral and policy consideration outlined above, the Association and the
Government developed a project that laid out the following objectives: (a) increase the
output of qualified lower secondary school teachers; (b) improve the quality of preservice
primary teacher training; (c) reduce the number of unqualified primary and lower
secondary schools teachers in the province be assisting the Gansu TV Education Institute
2   Li Peng, "Explanation of the Compulsory Education Law (draft) of the People's Republic of China"
made at the fourth session of the Sixth National People's Congress, April 2, 1986.



- 4 -
to expand its training programs; (d) improve science instruction at the lower secondary
level; (e) improve the quality of educational administration through the establishment of a
center for School Administration; and (f) increase the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of
provincial level education administration.
10.   The major risk perceived at the time of appraisal was the possible delays due to
the inexperience of the provincial officials in the implementation of an IDA-financed
project. In particular, the provincial officials were not familiar with procurement
procedures that conformed to Bank guidelines. However, the risks were seen to be
manageable. The project included technical assistance from central government staff
experienced in implementing Bank projects. International competitive bidding (ICB)
procurement was to be conducted by China National Tendering Import/Export
Corporation (CNTIC), the central agency responsible for ICB in China, which had
extensive experience with Bank-financed projects. In addition, Bank staff provided
training on project implementation through seminars and planned to continue to do so
during supervision.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
11.   Project Development Indicators. Achievements of project objectives can be
partially measured by reviewing the development impact indicators found in para. 2.
Briefly, (a) Normal College regular enrollments were overachieved but inservice targets
were not met; (b) Normal School enrollments were not met but graduate targets were
overachieved; (c) lower secondary science targets were met; (d) the TV Education
Institute targets were met or surpassed; (e) the Training Center for School Administration
achieved its enrollment targets; and (f) the technical assistance targets were also met.
More details and additional evaluative materials can be found in the following paragraphs
and Table 5, Key Indicators of Project Implementation.
12.   Enrollment-Normal Colleges. By the end of the Project, enrollments in the
five Normal Colleges were 38.0 percent higher than the SAR targets and the number of
graduates was about 11 percent higher than the SAR targets. However, the number of
inservice teachers was only 47 percent of the SAR target. The reason put forward by the
Gansu authorities for the failure to achieve the inservice teacher training targets was that:
(a) the State Education Commission (SEdC), during the implementation of the project,
had instituted a policy of improving overall quality of the teaching force in the country by
extending the two-year preservice training programs for lower secondary schools to three
years at the normal schools. As a result of this policy implementation, the preservice
enrollment of the five project normal colleges increased remarkably, as students must
now stay on campus for an additional year, and thus occupied a larger proportion of the
training capacity of these normal colleges; and (b) at the same time, the alternative
inservice teacher training programs have expanded significantly.  These programs
include: (i) educational colleges that are specialized in inservice training only; (ii) TV
universities; (iii) TV teachers colleges, and (iv) correspondence schools. In particular,
since 1993, a new inservice teacher training program, which combines the advantages of



- 5 -
the three different modes of inservice teacher training-TV instructional courses,
correspondence programs, and self study and tutoring-have been developed and enrolled
high numbers of lower secondary teachers in Gansu.
13.   Enrollment-Normal Schools: Under the project the 23 normal schools were to
increase their standards for instructional equipment for science, language laboratories,
computers, audiovisual equipment and the arts. During the project, all 23 normal schools
purchased 130 percent of the required equipment, thus allowing the schools to meet the
SEdC standards for normal schools. By reaching this goal, the normal schools are now
better able to upgrade the skills of minban3 teachers as well as gongban4 teachers.
Normal schools were also to increase the enrollments of full-time students by
approximately 20 percent. As the indicators (Table 5) show, the normal schools have
experienced a slight increase (approximately 6 percent) in overall enrollments, lower than
originally expected. As a result, by the end of the project, Gansu was considering
merging smaller normal schools with larger ones in order to achieve efficiency gains in
their normal school system. In addition, normal schools were beginning to upgrade the
skills of minban teachers in an effort to convert them to gongban teachers. This is seen as
an accomplishment because minban teachers are, in many instances, viewed by local
committees as the most dedicated and motivated teachers with many years of experience.
Minban teachers are also well adjusted to life in the rural areas and like the children and
manage the schools well.
14.   Improve Science Instruction in Lower Secondary Schools.  The project
invested in improving the quality of science education in lower secondary schools by:
(a) building one or two laboratories and a storage and preparation room at each school;
(b) purchasing equipment of class-three standard for each school; and (c) training all
science teachers and laboratory assistants in all 400 schools. As a result of the project, all
of the 400 lower secondary schools are able to provide SEdC-prescribed experiments
(minimum-level science experiments that are related to specific grade-level curricula
taught in secondary institutions) because of the availability of the equipment and the
improved abilities of the teachers due to training. In addition, students' science test
scores improved during the life of the project. The improvements were measured by
Gansu Province in a study conducted under the project, which showd that students' marks
on science subjects were higher than those of nonproject schools that lacked teaching aids
and special training for science teachers. Because of the improvements experienced in
project schools, Gansu has developed a plan to: (a) continue the long-term and short-
term training of teachers, (b) support the repair and replacement of teaching aids
3   Minban teachers are locally hired and supported teachers, many of whom have not received formal
teacher training before the start of their work.
4   Gongban teachers are government hired and paid teachers with higher levels of initial preservice
training than minban teachers.



- 6 -
annually; and (c) provide 200 of the remaining 600 lower secondary schools with the
necessary equipment to reach the same goals by the year 1999.
15.   Gansu TV Education Institute Program. The Project provided equipment and
technical assistance for inservice training of teacher who were being trained by the TV
Education Institute using video tapes and books. This component was able to reach all
the projected targets.  The province opened 393 new TV education centers with
appropriate equipment, and provided all the required inservice training of primary and
lower secondary teachers for certification. This has contributed to improved quality of
the teachers in Gansu Province. The original goal of producing 400 programs annually
was revised due to the fact that during the life of the project the Beijing-based China TV
Normal College, which disseminates programs through a satellite network, decided that
production of courses could be shared by all provinces, thereby reducing the need for
each province to produce all of its own programming. Rather than have each province
produce its own materials, introduction of the national satellite network was seen as a
more efficient mechanism for providing the inservice teacher training programming.
Therefore, the reduction of this target in the project is seen as an improvement in
efficiency for the national training system. The province will continue to support TV
education by expanding the number of centers by 75 and providing the necessary funding
to maintain the current 1,644 centers.
16.   Center of School Administration. The center for school administration was
designed to offer training for provincial-, prefecture- and county-level education
administrators. The center completed all of the estimated construction and is now
providing inservice training for approximately 200 education administrators and middle
school principals annually. The Center is also preparing to increase the number of
preservice students from 400 to 480 annually and will be training three trainers annually
for the next five years. With the unprecedented reform and decentralization of the
education system, Gansu education administrators will need continuous training so as to
be able to understand how best to utilizes the scarce resources available to education and
to cope with the rapid changes occurring in education. As evidenced above, the Gansu
Education Bureau has not only completed the project goals but has made a detailed five-
year plan to sustain and improve the training system.
17.   Civil Works, Equipment and Furniture. The majority of project funds was
spent on construction of facilities, equipment and books. Civil works construction was
completed by the end of 1994. A total of 265,000 m2 or 94 percent of the total original
target in the SAR was constructed. The 400 lower secondary schools laboratories,
amounting to 92,000 m or 100 percent of the original target was completed in 1991 with
the use of local funds. The remainder of the construction was for the other project
institutions of which 173,000 m or 91 percent of the nonlab construction was completed.
The reduction occurred as a result of significant cost increases in building materials and
labor. The quality of the construction completed seemed good. Now, however, after a
few years some of the facilities are beginning to show signs of wear from normal use. In
order to sustain this investment, the Provincial Education Bureau will need to pay



- 7 -
particular attention to the maintenance of facilities constructed under the project. In an
effort to address this issue, the Province will provided a budget allocation for
maintenance of all facilities and equipment as indicated in Part II Operation Plan.
18.   The equipment and furniture purchased assisted the Normal Colleges, Normal
Schools and Lower Secondary Schools in the project to offer all or almost all of the
SEdC-prescribed experiments (minimum-level science experiments which are related to
specific grade-level curricula taught in secondary and post-secondary educational
institutions), improve computer literacy and enhance the libraries. The effectiveness of
the equipment will diminish rapidly if funds are not made available for maintenance,
consumable and replacement equipment and parts. The Provinces indicated that it will
provide a budget allocation in order to maintain the efficiency of the equipment, which
can be seen in Part II Operation Plan.
19.   Technical Assistance (TA). Improving the quality of school supervision, science
teachers and laboratory technicians were major project goals. The project sought to
achieve this goal by supporting inservice training for existing teachers and administrators
through Normal Colleges and Schools as well as the establishment of the Center for
School Administration. In each category (see Project Indicators, Table 5) the project
targets for the number of teachers and administrator were exceeded. These teachers and
administrators have undoubtedly contributed to improving basic education system of
Gansu. In particular, there has been marked improvement in lower secondary science
teaching. This assertion was borne out in the findings of the science education study
conducted by Gansu Institute for Educational Research (GIER); passing rates in all
science subjects improved from between 12 and 14 percent in project schools. However,
the Gansu Education Bureau implementation unit did experience difficulties in
organizing study tours and visits of foreign experts, thereby prolonging the
implementation of these TA activities until the end of the project. Overall, these
activities were judged to be useful for the Gansu education administrators, although the
full, long-term impact of the activities could not be ascertained due to late
implementation.   There should have been the more focus during the project
implementation of these activities so that benefits could be realized during the life of the
project.
20.   Studies. During the project the three studies were conducted: (a) forecast of
demand and supply of primary and lower secondary school teachers (1990-2000); (b) a
cost-effectiveness evaluation of inservice training of lower secondary, and (c) a report on
improvement of science experiments in lower secondary schools. The findings of the
studies were sent to the Association and were used in the preparation of the five-year
completion report plan submitted to the Association. (See Part II.)
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
21.   Implementation Record. During the five-year project implementation period,
the overall implementation of the project went well. The total credit amount of



- 8 -
SDR 15.83 million ($20 million equivalent) was disbursed and the indicators to monitor
overall progress under the project (Table 5) were met or exceeded.  The Gansu
Implementation Office operated throughout the life of the Project and provided the
necessary oversight required for smooth implementation activities associated with each
institute such as civil works, procurement of project equipment, purchase of books and
training.
22.   Major  Factors  Affecting  the  Project.   Major factors  affecting  the
implementation of the project: (a) acceleration of the national goals to achieve UBE gave
strong impetus to the provincial authorities to move forward their own teacher training
goals, especially in the area of science teaching; (b) moderate increases in national
categorical funding for poor and minority children's student assistance started to be
allocated to Gansu Province augmenting the scare resources to support education at the
provincial level; and (c) the national policy on production of TV courses changed from
emphasis on provincially produced and recorded programming to nationally produced
and satellite transmitted material.
23.   During the implementation of the project, China suffered considerable inflation in
1993, which increased the costs of building materials substantially, thus having an impact
on project-supported civil works. During that period of time, some of the project-
supported civil works came to a halt, and it was only after new agreements were reached
with contractors in 1994 that it was possible for the full civil works programs to continue.
Although this did not have an impact on the final targets of the overall project, there was
serious delay for one year in the procurement of project-supported civil works.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
24.   Measures of project sustainability are faculty and education administration
training and development as well as operation and maintenance of facilities and
equipment and enrollment. All of the civil works construction was completed by 1994.
The quality of the construction seemed good, with facilities only starting to show signs of
wear from normal use. SEdC and the Gansu Provincial Bureau of Education will need to
pay particular attention to the maintenance of the facilities constructed under the project
and start a regular maintenance program.
25.   For project institutions to continue to obtain value from their project-supported
investments, they will need to ensure efficient use of the equipment and materials.
Project institutions need to provide adequate resources to maintain and service the
existing equipment. The best way to sustain the physical plant investment will be for
municipal, provincial and prefectural authorities to systematically provide necessary
recurrent funding annually for the maintenance. In addition, it will be important for
Gansu to assess the costs associated with expanding the lower secondary science
component to nonproject schools. The study performed by GIER points to improvements
in science scores in project schools that should be replicated in the nonproject areas.



- 9 -
26.   Large numbers of faculty and staff were trained during project implementation
which, no doubt, contributed to improvements in faculty qualifications. However, to
sustain the investment, the province will need to allocate the necessary resources to
continue the upgrading of staff in both the project and nonproject area. Of particular
importance is the provision of science training for nonproject areas so that they can see
the gains in science education that the project areas have seen. The province will need
overall professional development strategy that is continuously updated.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
27.   The project was designed based on close cooperation between IDA and the Gansu
Provincial Government. This was the first Bank Group project in education with an
individual province and therefore, it was essential to establish good communication
channels with the Provincial Government. The Bank Group mobilized a team of
qualified experts to work with the Gansu Provincial Education Bureaus and the county
education bureaus so that the province could be prepared to play a larger role in the
preparation of future projects either directly with the province or through national
projects. IDA supervision missions visited Gansu and continuously monitored the
implementation of the Project.
28.   The Association also conducted a mid-term review of the project in April 1990 to
assess the overall implementation of the project. The mid-term review attempted to
strengthen the provincial education bureaus' focus the qualitative aspects of the project
through discussions on the overall situation of nine-year compulsory education, technical
assistance, education of girls, status of minban teachers and the findings of the three
project studies. The overall assessment of IDA's performance was satisfactory.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
29.  In line with a good record in designing, preparing and implementing the IDA-
assisted education projects, Gansu Province demonstrated satisfactory performance in
preparing and implementing the first IDA Provincial Loan.
30.   Gansu Province Education Bureau coordinated with the County Education
Bureaus to carefully develop proposals and collect the necessary data and information for
project preparation. Officials from the Province received training on the development of
projects during the preparation phase.
31.   During implementation the province and counties worked closely together to
facilitate the procurement of equipment, technical assistance, preparation of annual
progress reports and audit reports sent to the Association. The Borrower also provided
the necessary counterpart funds to complete the civil works in time to install and house
all of the locally procured equipment in conjunction with the project. This was a
particularly difficult responsibility in light of the accelerating inflation and building costs
during the early stage of project implementation.



- 10-
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
32.   The Project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The Provincial Government was
able to increase the number of qualified primary and lower-secondary school teachers,
improve the quality of science teachers and science education and improve the quality of
education administrators.  Passing grades in science in project schools improved
substantially. National education projects developed through SEdC in Gansu Province
have shown that the Gansu Education administrators have a high level of capacity for
both design, development and implementation. During the preparation of the Third Basic
Education Project (Cr. 2831-CHA), the IDA team was able to use GIER as well as the
staff of the Gansu Education Bureau to conduct analytical work associated with a
household survey used in the economic and financial analysis for the BEIII project. This
speaks to the institution and capacity building that has resulted from the Gansu Education
project.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
33.   The Government and the Association discussed an outline for the attached
Operation Plan (Annex C) during the October 1994 implementation completion report
mission. The report reflects the decision of the Government as to how to sustain the
project for a five year period as well as ways to further promote the implementation of
science education in the non-project areas. The Operation Plan provides estimated levels
of support for maintaining facilities, faculty development, and expanding lower
secondary science education.
34.   As mentioned above, the Government of China, Gansu Province and the
Association have negotiated a Third Basic Education project which builds on and
expands considerably the experiences of this earlier project and through the Third Basic
Education project the Province and the Association will be able to monitor the progress
of teacher training Institutes of Education as they begin to work toward sustaining the
benefits of this project.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
35.   The main lessons learned from the project experience are: (a) single-province
projects demonstrate the advantage of focused association and provincial attention to a
limited number of provincial important goals and bring to implementation the energy and
concentrate necessary to attain the goals; (b) the education component of this
multisectoral project benefited from the high level and continuing attention of a group of
provincial policymakers responsible for carrying out the full range of Association-
supported project activities; (c) the provincial focus afforded both the province and the
Association the opportunity to bring to bear provincial resources, such as GIER, which
through its research, added value to both this and subsequent Association activities in
Gansu; and (d) costing of civil works projects and other project procurement, within an
inflationary period, is inherently difficult and therefore, project supervisions needs to be
increased during these periods to ensure that there is not slippage in attaining goals,
especially in the area of counterpart funding.



- I1 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Achievement of Objectives
Substantial    Partial   Negligible   Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                      x
Sector policies                            x
Financial objectives                        x
Institutional development                   x
Physical objectives             x
Poverty reduction                           x
Gender issues                  x
Other social objectives                     x
Environmental objectives                                            x
Public sector management                                            x
Private sector development                                          x
Project Sustainability
Likely                    Unlikely                                Uncertain
x
Bank Performance
Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                                        x
Preparation assistance                                x
Appraisal                                             x
Supervision                                           x
Borrower Performance
Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                           x
Implementation                                        x
Covenant compliance               x
Operation (if applicable)
Assessment of Outcome
Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory    Highly Unsatisfactory
x



- 12 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS (EDUCATION COMPONENT)
Year of
Loan/Credit                  Purpose                                                  approval       Status
Preceding Operations
University Development Project  To strengthen science & engineering in 28 leading Chinese  1981  Completed 1986
(Ln 2021-CHA, Cr. 1167-CHA)  Universities. Objectives were to increase the quality &
quantity of graduates & research, to strengthen the planning &
management capabilities & to prepare investments in the
education sector.
Agriculture Education and    To assist agriculture higher education and research in I1  1982     Completed 1989
Research Project             agricultural colleges and 7 institutions.
(Cr. 1297-CHA)
Polytechnic/Television       To increase the number of students & to improve the quality of    1983  Completed 1992
University Project           instruction in China's 17 polytechnic institutions & 28
(Cr. 141 1-CHA)              television universities.
Rural Health Medical Education  The educational component of this project was designed to  1984  Completed 1991
Project                      enhance the quality of education, training & curriculum.
(Cr. 1472-CHA)
Second Agricultural Education   To improve & assist agriculture education in 23 agricultural  1984  Completed 1992
Project                      colleges, 12 agricultural technical schools.
(Ln. 2444-CHA)
Second University Development To increase technical & managerial personnel through policy &  1985  Completed 1992
Project                      institutional changes related to the engineering and
(Cr. 1551l-CHA)              economic/finance education subsector.
Provincial University Project    To provide direct assistance to 60 provincial universities in 28  1986  Completed 1992
Cr. 1671-CHA)                provinces and planning assistance for the higher education
subsector.
Following Operations
Textbook Development Project  To support the textbooks upgrading program by the Chinese  1989    To be completed
(Cr. 2006-CHA)               Govemment. Objectives are to improve the educational quality            6/30/95
of textbooks at all levels of schooling, to increase the variety of
available textbooks & to improve the efficiency of textbook
production.
Vocational & Technical       To improve the quality of technical & vocational training in  1990  To be completed
Education Project            China through supporting 59 secondary vocational/technical             12/31/95
(Cr. 2114-CHA)               schools in 10 provinces and 3 municipalities.
Medium-Sized Cities          To assists Changzhou, Luoyang and Shashi cities to improve  1991    To be completed
Development Project          overall and sector planning and management, including                   6/30/97
(Ln. 3286-CHA)               education.
Key Studies Development Project To support the government's plan to reform the management of    1991  To be completed
(Cr. 2210-CHA)               science and technology programs. It consists of support for             6/30/96
research and graduate training in 133 State Key Laboratories
and Special Labs affiliated with Universities and with the
Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Education Development In Poor  To supports three main goals for the development of education  1992  To be completed
Provinces                    in relatively poor provinces-Shanxi, Shaanxi, Hubei, Hunan,            12/31/98
(Cr. 2339-CHA)               Guizhou and Yunnan.
Effective Teaching Service   To contribute to improved learning at the lower middle school  1993  To be completed
Project                      level by providing teaching services, including instructional          12/31/98
(Cr. 2471-CHA)               methodology, teacher training and management of teachers
training and assignment.
Basic Education In Poor And  To support the attainment of universal primary education and  1994  To be completed
Minority Areas Project       expansion of coverage of lower secondary education in poor            12/31/2000
(Cr. 2651-CHA)               and minority areas in 6 provinces: Xinjiang, Sichuan, Inner
Mongolia, Ningxia, Guangxi, and Jiangxi.
Third Basic Education Project   To support the attainment of universal primary education and  1995  To be completed
(Cr. 283 1-CHA)              expansion of coverage of lower secondary education in poor            12/31/2001
and minority areas in 7 provinces: Anhui, Fujian, Gansu,
Hebei Henan, Jilin and Qinghai
Vocational Education Reform    To improve and increase the supply of skilled labor, raise the  1996  To be completed
Project                      quality and efficiency of the VTE system and build up capacity        12/31/2002
(Cr. 4063/Ln. 2898-CHA)      for monitoring and evaluation in five high growth provinces
and Tianjin municipality.



- 13 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date Actual/Latest
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned           Estimate
Identification (Executed Project Summary)            4/85                4/85
Preparation                                          3/86                3/86
Appraisal                                            6/86               9/18/86
Negotiations                                         3/87               3/23/87
Letter of development policy (if applicable)         N/A                 N/A
Board presentation                                   4/87               4/17/87
Signing                                              6/87               9/14/87
Effectiveness                                        8/87               1/19/88
First tranche release (if applicable)                N/A                 N/A
Mid-tern review (if applicable)                      1990               3/26/90
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)   N/A                 N/A
Project completion                                 12/31/93             12/31/96
Loan closing                                        6/30/94            6/30/96 la
/a Extended twice with one-year extensions each time.
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($'000)
FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91         FY92      FY93       FY94
Appraisal estimate   0.5      3.5       9.0    15.0    18.4        20.0
Actual               0.6      3.0      10.0    17.5    19.8        21.0       21.4La
Actual as % of     120       86       111      116      107       105
estimate
Date of Final                                                                9/21/94
disbursement
/a Higher cumulative disbursement in US dollar terms than estimated at appraisal was
due to net cumulative depreciation of the US dollar against the SDR.



- 14 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Unit & Content                        Beginning  Target  Completion
Five Teachers Colleges
No. of in-college students (preservice)          3,291      5,800    8,005
No. of in-college students (inservice)             240      2,400    1,130
Graduates of preservice students                   915     2,500    2,769
Graduate of inservice students                       0      1,200     567
No. of permanent teachers                          635      1,025     970
23 Normal Schools
No. of in-school students                       14,257    17,000   15,047
No. of graduated students                        3,894     4,500    5,278
% of equipment purchased                             0       100      130
400 Lower Secondary Schools
No. of laboratories built                            0       400      400
No. of science teachers trained                      0       800    1,013
No of lab. technicians trained                       0       400      837
% of equipment purchased                             0       100      142
TV Education Institute
No. of training centers open                       101      1,600    1,644
Video tape courses production                        2        10       10
Cumulative no. of primary teachers trained           0    36,000   36,467
Cumulative no. of secondary teachers trained     2,500    29,000   34,223
Cumulative no. of primary teachers got qualified     0     7,000   27,202
certification
Cumulative no of secondary school teachers got       0     7,500    9,793
qualified certification
Training Center of School Administration
No. of students trained                             89       400      401
No. of graduated students                           43       200      195
No. of permanent teachers                           19        50       51
Consultation Service
Local consulting specialists (person/month)          0       300      350
Overseas consulting specialists (person/month)       0         6        8



- 15-
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as Defined at
Study                Appraisal/Redefined            Status            Impact of Study
Demand and Supply of   Refine the research capacity       Completed    Research capacity increased
Pritnary and Secondary    of provincial teacher demand                  and plans for system decen-
Teachers (1990-2000)      and supply projections                        tralization accelerated
Cost-Effectiveness        Cost comparison of two          Completed    TV-based inservice proved to
Evaluation of Inservice    methods of teacher upgrading                 be a more cost-effective
Training of Lower         (TV-based and Institution-                    method of providing inservice
Secondary Schools         based Inservice Program)                      training
Improvement of Science   Study the improvements in        Completed    Student achievement in sci-
Experiments in Lower    400 lower secondary schools                     ence experiments improved
Secondary Schools         as a result of the project
TABLE 7A: PROJECT COSTS IN $ MILLION
Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Latest Estimate
Item                Province      IDA         Total     Province      IDA         Total
Land Acquisition                    1.88        0.00        1.88        1.07        0.00        1.07
Civil Works
1.Teachers Colleges and Normal
Schools Training Center            4.00       12.00       16.00        6.10       14.32       20.42
2. 400 Lower Secondary Schools     8.84        0.00        8.84        5.00        8.00        5.00
Furniture                           1.46        0.00        1.46        1.40        0.00        1.40
Equipment and Teaching Materials    0.00        7.80        7.80        0.00        6.92        6.92
Local Experts                       0.07        0.00        0.07        0.00        0.00        0.00
Local Training                      0.46        0.00        0.46        0.27        0.00        0.27
Foreign Experts                     0.00        0.08        0.08        0.00        0.13        0.13
Training Abroad                     0.00        0.12        0.12        0.00        0.09        0.09
Total Project Costs          16.71      20.00       36.71       13.84       21.46       35.30
TABLE 7B: PROJECT COSTS IN Y MILLION
Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Latest Estimate
Item                Province      IDA         Total     Province      IDA         Total
Land Acquisition                    6.96        0.00        6.96        4.94        0.00        4.94
Civil Works
I.Teachers Colleges and Normal
Schools Training Center           14.80       44.40       59.20       28.09       67.61       95.70
2. 400 Lower Secondary Schools    32.70        0.00       32.70       23.00        0.00       23.00
Furniture                           5.40        0.00        5.40        6.43        0.00        6.43
Equipment and Teaching Materials    0.00       28.86       28.86        0.00       30.91       30.91
Local Experts                       0.26        0.00        0.26        0.00        0.00        0.00
Local Training                      1.70        0.00        1.70        1.27        0.00        1.27
Foreign Experts                     0.00        0.30        0.30        0.00        0.65        0.65
Training Abroad                     0.00        0.44        0.44        0.00        0.51        0.51
Total Project Costs                61.82       74.00      135.82       63.73       99.68     163.41



- 16-
TABLE 8: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Not applicable.
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Not applicable.
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement      Section     Covenant  Present   Original    Revised   Description of Covenant  Comments
Type     Status  Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date        Date
Credit          2.02(b)         I         C                              Open and maintain a
Special Account
Schedule 3,       5         C                              Use and selection of
Section II,                                               consultants to be based
I and 2                                                  on "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency,
August 1981"
Project         2.02(a)         5         C                              Open and maintain
project implementation
office
2.07(a)        9         C                              Submit each year by
January I progress
report on the policy
action program
2.08(b)        10        C                              Conduct a mid-term
review by June 30, 1990
3.01          1         C                             Submission of audit
project accounts and
auditor's report to IDA
no later than June 30



- 17-
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Not applicable.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS (ALL COMPONENTS)
Stage of Project Cycle          Planned                    Revised                     Actual
Weeks           $          Weeks           $          Weeks           $
Through appraisal       not available                                          not available  not available
Appraisal-Board         not available
Board-effectiveness     not available
Supervision
Completion                                                                         14.00        34.60
Total                                                                   524.60      1,412.20
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of Project Cycle   Month/Year Number of Days in   Specialized Staff   Performance Types of Problems
Persons    Field    Skills Represented   Rating
Through appraisal       6/86-10/86       6         17   Gen. Edu., Econ.,                No major problems
Technical Edu.
Appraisal through Board  11/86-3/87      3                                               No major problems
approval
Board approval through    4/87-8/87                                                      No major problems
effectiveness
Supervision                11/87        2           5   Sen. Edu., Tech. Edu.     I      No major problems
7/88         2          4   Sen. Edu., Tech. Edu      I      No major problems
3/89         3          9   Sen. Edu., Sen. Edu.,     I      No major problems
Financial Analyst
4/90         3         10   Sen. Edu., Sen. Edu.,     2      Mid-term Review.
Financial Analyst                Shortages in coun-
terpart funds were
identified as prob-
lem
10/90        2          4   Sen., Eco., Edu.           I      No major problems
5/92         2          5   Eco., Sen. Eco.           1      No major problems
5/93         4          5   Eco., Sen. Eco., Edu.     I      No major problems
Mgmt., Spec., Adm.
Sect.
9/94         2          3   Operations Analyst,  Satisfactory ICR mission
Sen. Eco.






-19 -                      ANNEX A
ANNEX A: MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Ms. Sandra Erb (mission leader) and Mr. Leon
Miller (consultant) visited Gansu Province during the period September 21-23, 1994 to
review the status of and make preparations for the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) of the education component of the above project. Excellent arrangements and
preparations for the mission were made by the Gansu Project Implementation Office
(GPIO) and the Education Project Implementation Office (EPIO). Aside from meetings
with GPIO and EPIO in Lanzhou the mission traveled to the Qincheng District, Tianshui
City to observe the project implementation at the Tianshui Normal College. The mission
would like to express its sincere thanks for the cooperation and hospitality it received
from the local authorities during its visit to Gansu. The following summarizes the
findings of the mission. Unless indicated in a follow-up letter from Bank management,
these agreements recorded in the Aide-Memoire are final with the signature of the task
manager.
2.    Overall Implementation Status. The mission was pleased to learn that, except
for four civil works projects, the implementation of the education component of the
project was completed by the original closing date of June 30, 1994. As of the new
closing date of June 30, 1995, the total credit amount, SDR 15.83 million, is expected to
be fully disbursed. Indicators to monitor progress under the Action Plan have been met
or exceeded by the project with, the exception of inservice training goals.
3.    Civil Works. All civil works construction was expected to be completed by the
end of 1993. However, with the very high increases in building material costs in 1993,
some construction activities were stopped. Considerable time was lost in resolving the
issue of the increased material costs with the contractors. Agreements were subsequently
reached with the contractors to enable them to proceed with the construction activities in
1994. Now all civil works activities have progressed and will be completed by the end of
1994. Four contracts at Normal Colleges were effected by these delays. A total of about
2
265,000 m  or 94 percent of the original target in the SAR have been constructed under
the project. The 400 lower secondary schools laboratories, amounting to about 92,000 mn2
or 100 percent of the original target was completed in 1991 with the use of local funds.
The construction for the other project institutions, which will be completed in 1994, will
total 173,000 m2.'
l The original planned construction for the project institutions of 192,000 m2 was revised downward to
172,000 m2 in 1992. This reduction occurred as a result of significant cost increases in building
materials and labor.



-20 -                     ANNEX A
4.    The quality of construction at the not mal college visited is very good. However,
when the mission visited the first building constructed at the Tianshui Normal College in
1988, the classroom building, it was already showing signs of wear. The mission
therefore, would urge PEdC to pay particular attention to the maintenance of the facilities
constructed under the project. PEdC should start a maintenance program for civil works
as quickly as possible to protect the investments made during the project.
5.    Equipment. All of the equipment has been procured under the project and is in
operation. As mentioned above, considerable attention should be given to providing
adequate financial resources for maintenance, consumables and replacement equipment
that may be lost as are result of normal operation. Otherwise the effectiveness of the
equipment will deteriorate rapidly and the equipment could become a total loss in as short
a period as 3-4 years. The mission encourages the provincial authorities to systematically
provide adequate funding for the maintenance for school equipment.
6.    Technical Assistance and Training. In May 1993 there was approximately
$60,000 remaining in the Technical Assistance disbursement category. The May mission
recommended several possibilities for using the funds on technical assistance activities.
The present mission was pleased to learn that the Gansu Provincial Education Bureau had
organized several training activities with the remaining funds. The Province used
$50,000 to: (a) invite two experts from Hong Kong to give a seminar on education
planning and management for lower secondary school principals; (b) hold seminars for
middle school and vocational school principals; (c) organize a seminar for primary and
lower secondary school teachers on the new teaching program under the nine-year
compulsory education system; (d) send principals to Shanghai and Shandong to learn new
techniques in education management; (e) hold a seminar on vocational education; (f) hold
a seminar for provincial education managers and; (g) commission the Provincial
Education Research Institute to evaluate and analyze the affect of the new laboratory
equipment in the 400 lower secondary schools on the achievement levels of students.
(See Annex 1 for report.)
7.    Based on the information provided in the report on TA activities, the mission
recommends that the 60 principals who participated in the planning and management
seminar, in which new methodologies and techniques were taught, be used as a core
group to provide advice in developing future training activities for principals.  In
addition, the mission recommends that the results of the study conducted by the
Provincial Education Research Institute be used to develop a long-range provincial plan
to provide training and lab equipment to the remaining 600 nonproject-supported lower-
secondary schools in Gansu Province. The mission feels that the report could be used as
a basis for approaching the Provincial Finance Bureau for the necessary funds to carry out
the implementation of such a program.
8.   Inservice Teacher Training. By the end of the project, the total enrollment in
inservice teacher training in the Normal Colleges was 1,130 or 45 percent of the target.
On the other hand, all the indicators for TV and correspondence inservice training exceed
targets by as much as 131 percent. Gansu officials repeated the explanation given in May



-21-                       ANNEX A
1993 for the difference in the project target indicators which was: (a) the fact that the
State Education Commission instituted a policy of improving the overall quality of the
teaching force in the country by extending the two-year preservice training programs for
lower secondary schools to three years at the junior normal colleges, thereby reducing the
potential for increasing enrollment and (b) the fact that alternative inservice teachers
training programs, i.e., TV and correspondence courses, were expanded significantly
during this time as a alternative to on-campus inservice training.
9.    Despite the fact that there were significant increases in TV inservice instruction,
the mission is concerned with the quality of these types of training programs, particularly
in the remote areas. In an effort to maintain quality in these expanded training programs,
the mission recommends that officials consider brief periods of withdrawal training or
school-based training to enhance the distance and correspondence courses. The Province
could consider establishing special coaching centers or mobile teams of teachers to
provide this enhanced service.
10.   The mission encourages Gansu to bear in mind that the training of professional
and administrative staff is a continuous process and that institutions should have their
own staff development plans, which should be continually updated.
11.   Transition from PCR to ICR Preparation.  PCR preparation was discussed
during the May 1993 mission. It was agreed during the May mission that the Borrower's
section would be completed by September 30, 1994. This was presented to the current
mission and is attached (Annex 2) as Part II of the PCR from the Gansu Provincial
Education Bureau. The mission wishes to compliment the provincial authorities for
producing a detailed, useful and timely report which, when presented in its final form,
will be incorporated in the project's final Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
12.   The mission reviewed Part II with the Borrower requesting that changes or
modifications be made in both the report and the accompanying statistical table to
strengthen the final document. It was agreed that the final copy of Part II would be
submitted to the Bank by March 31, 1995. The mission also discussed the new Bank
procedures for ICR preparation with the EPIO. The mission explained that the Borrower
is now required to prepare an Operation Plan for submission to the Bank along with Part
II. Since the ICR procedures are new to the Borrower, the mission provided the EPIO
with an outline of topics that the Borrower should consider when preparing their
Operation Plan. It was agreed that the Borrower would prepare and submit a draft
Operation Plan to the Bank by December 15, 1994 for review and comment back to
Gansu by January 1995. It was agreed that the final ICR would be prepared by the
Borrower and the Bank by March 31, 1995.
Halsey L. Beemer, Jr.
Task Manager, EA2HR
October 19, 1994
(Original including annexes may be found in the Project Files.)



- 22 -                    ANNEXB
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
I. Project Summary
1.1   For the purpose of supporting Gansu Provincial Government's efforts in
universalizing nine year compulsory education, World Bank decided in 1985 to carry out
a basic education project in Gansu as a component of Gansu Provincial Development
Project. The aim of the education component was to extend the training capacity for
teachers of basic education so as to upgrade the level of basic education in Gansu
Province. After two years of thorough discussion and careful preparation, the project
began to be implemented in January, 1988. This project was the first basic education
project that has been carried out in Gansu and even in China by World Bank Credit Loan.
There are two most prominent characteristics in this project. One is that great efforts
were made to promote the development of teachers' education in order to solve the
quantity and quality problems of teachers for nine year compulsory education. The other
is that the project put striking emphasis on supporting the development of nine year
compulsory education in poor areas so as to provide equal education opportunity for the
disadvantaged population group in rural areas.  The two key points showed that
specialists of Gansu educational circles and educational experts from World Bank arrived
at the unified recognition on the strategic approach for the development of education
cause in Gansu Province.
1.2   Main Contents of the Project
(a)   Extending the training capacity of five teachers' colleges from 3,500 to
8,200 so as to increase the number of teachers' for lower secondary
schools;
(b)   Providing modem electronic teaching equipment for 23 normal schools in
order to upgrade the training quality of primary school teachers;
(c)   Having an Educational Administration Training Center established in
Gansu Education Institute with the training capacity of 400 personnel to
train educational administrative staff and improve the quality of
educational administration;
(d)   Establishing 430 TV education centers all over the Province to extend the
training scale of in-service teachers and reduce the number of unqualified
teachers;



- 23 -                    ANNEXB
(e)   Providing 400 lower secondary schools in 46 poor counties with science
teaching aids to improve the conditions of science subject experiments in
lower secondary schools;
(f)   Inviting foreign educational specialists invited to give technical assistance
and consultation; organizing study groups to conduct study tours abroad so
as to improve the levels of educational administration and policy decision.
1.3  International Development Association (IDA) provided a credit loan of
SDR 15.83 million which is equivalent to US$20 million for the project. Gansu
Provincial Government invested local funds of RMB 62 million yuan (including RMB 23
million yuan of construction funds invested in 400 lower secondary schools) . The total
investment was RMB 136 million yuan (US$1 = RMB 3.7 yuan).
1.4   The project credit loan was mainly used for construction of new school buildings,
procurement of educational equipment and furniture and related personnel training. The
implementation period was 7 years and the project would be closed on December 31,
1994.
1.5   After 2 years of preparation and 7 years of implementation, the Project has come
into the closing time. The Project has completed the total investment of RMB 163.41
million yuan, of which the credit loan from World Bank were RMB 99.68 million yuan
(equal to SDR 15.81 million or US$21.46 million). The construction are of new school
buildings were 173,300 m' with total investment of RMB 100.64 million yuan. The
investment for equipment procurement were RMB 30.91 million yuan and the spending
on furniture and others were RMB 6.43 million yuan. The spending for training were
RMB 2.44 million yuan. The building constructed in 400 lower secondary schools were
calculated as RMB 23 million yuan (Table I) .
1.6   All the project objectives and monitoring indicators have been fulfilled or over-
fulfilled (Table V and VI). At present, the beneficial results of the project have been
achieved obviously. The project is now playing an important role in promoting the
development of basically universalizing nine year compulsory education in Gansu.
II. Project Implementation and Management
Project Preparation
2.1  In April 1985, after inspection on the social and economic development in Gansu
Province, World Bank pointed out that besides solving the problems of economic
development, it would be more important to improving the personnel training and
education, particularly the personnel for basic education. In the document "The Growth
and Development in Gansu Province," compiled by World Bank, it was pointed out that
the employment and transition of labor force, the application of new agricultural
technology, the increase of agricultural production and the improvement of women's
social status are also depended on the good basic education. In the poor areas of a



- 24 -                     ANNEX B
developing country where the overall level of education is low, the economic beneficial
result of investment in basic education would be much higher than investment in other
areas (P. 51 of the Document). Based on this recognition, The World Bank delegation
put forward a proposal of basic education project which was different from other World
Bank project implemented in China before. Gansu Provincial Government reacted
immediately to support this suggestion and demanded the related departments to
cooperate with World Bank for the project establishment and preparation.
2.2   The project approval and preparation are very important. It is not only connected
with the correct areas of investment, but also crucial to whether the designed project
could get satisfactory results after the project implementation. Therefor, a perfect project
design means half the success of a project.
2.3   Entering the 1980s, the development of basic education in Gansu came across
some serious challenges. Poor Schooling conditions and lack of qualified teachers
consisted of the main problem that restrained the development of education. Therefore,
priority should be given to solve these problems. On one hand, however, it was
unrealistic to solve these two problems with the limited credit loan only. On the other
hand, if the credit loan was distributed equally to a large scale of education areas, it
would be not effective and cause new investment waste, just like "throwing a stone into
the sea". So, the important principle for the project preparation must be centralizing the
funds to determine the key project points and meet the most urgent necessity. Through
serious analyzing, specialists from both side (the lender and the borrower) got the same
recognition unanimously that the most urgent task was to enhance teachers, training for
basic education. Without good training of teachers, the school could not educate good
students with fine schooling conditions. Good teachers, however, can teach students well
even in hard situations, for they can make up for the difficult conditions through many
ways. Based on this recognition, both the Lender and the Borrower agreed to use the
credit loan on the development of teachers' education. This design has been proved
correct by the project implementation. After nearly ten years of hard work on the project,
the teachers' education bases have been established for the universalization of nine year
compulsory education in Gansu Province.
2.4   Besides stressing on the prominent points, the project design also made careful
consideration about the technical details of implementation, such as the supplementary of
school buildings, equipment procurement, personnel training and estimated expenditure.
A practical project implementation plan was made to ensure that there would be no
shortage of funds and no deduction of project indicators. With the participation of
experts from World Bank and the guidance of provincial government, the project units at
all levels spent more than a year in making the estimated expenditures on all parts of the
project. Enough contingent funds were prepared according to the suggestion of World
Bank experts. After the testing of nine years, implementation, all the project targets and
monitoring indicators stipulated in project proposal have been completed without any
deduction, though the project experienced twice serious inflation in 1988 and 1993.
From this experience, we realized that all the project indicators must be designed properly



-25 -                      ANNEX B
with certain flexible margin, especially for the project of long term.  The project
preparation time would rather be longer. It seems time consuming, but it can guarantee
the smooth development of project implementation.
2.5   Experts from the World Bank played an important role in the project preparation.
During the two years of preparation, six World Bank delegations came to Gansu to
provide technical guidance on project selection, monitoring indicators determination, the
ways of procurement and the financial expenditures. Their involvement greatly helped
the project units to understand the project characteristics, principles, procedures and
methods. The participation of World Bank Experts is an essential condition for the
successful project implementation, particularly at the preparation stage.
Project Implementation
2.6   The project were divided into three parts, i.e., civil works, equipment procurement
and personnel training. The key point was civil works which took a large amount of
credit loan. It was more difficult f than equipment procurement and personnel training
because it had complicated procedures, long period of construction, strong policy limits,
more unexpected situations and large investment with many management units
involvement. It was the major aspect which affects the results of the project. It is also
the main indicator for the evaluation of the project.
A. Civil Works
2.7   According to the project plan, civil works were arranged at 5 teachers, colleges, 4
normal schools and Gansu Education Institute, In accordance with the national standards
of construction area for per student issued by the State Education Commission, enough
construction areas and sufficient credit funds were allocated for all these colleges and
schools according to their schooling scale. Approved by Gansu Provincial Government,
22
the new schooling construction area was 171,900 m . (It was 190,300 m2 in the proposal
report) with a total investment of RMB 55,760,000 yuan. By the end of the Project, the
construction area completed is 173,300 mr with a total investment of RMB 100,640,000
yuan (of which the World Bank credit was RMB 67,610,000). Compared with the
original plan, the construction area did not go beyond the plan but there was a big
overspent of investment funds. The main causes for investment overspent are the
followings: (1) 30% of contingence cost and land acquisition cost were not included in
the original plan. (2) Due to the long period of implementation, the cost on construction
materials was greatly affected by inflation. The overspent, however, has been solved
through appreciation of credit and reallocation of funds from equipment procurement. As
a result, there is no deduction in construction areas of civil works.
2.8   The main obstacles in civil works
(a)   The new market economic system is still to be perfected in China. The
construction enterprises and traders were not well adaptable to the World



- 26 -                    ANNEX B
Bank regulations on bidding and the contract management. As a result the
progress of civil works was delayed because of contract disputes.
(b)   The long construction period of civil works caused overspending.
(c)   The unqualified expenditures during the process of disbursements often
led to delay in payment.
B. Equipment Procurement
2.9   According to SAR, 24,270, 000 yuan were allocated for equipment procurement,
and 4,520,000 for furniture. By the end of the project, the equipment procurement was
completed for 30,910,000 (100% WB Loan payment) and 6,430,000 was for furniture and
others (paid by local funds) (Table III).
2.10  The procurement of teaching equipment was carried out according to the
agreement with World Bank through one international competitive bidding and three
local competitive bidding. For Gansu educational institutions, it was the first time to use
international practice of competitive bidding in procurement of teaching equipment. The
competitive bids have many advantages in procurement, such as reasonable price, good
quality, less management cost and diminishing of unfair trade. It is an effective way of
equipment procurement.
2.11  Due to the differences of this project from other WB projects in China, there are
some deficient points existed in equipment procurement. Some competitive bids did not
achieve obvious beneficial results because various types of schools needed different
equipment and could not form a large quantity, which affects the efficiency of bidding.
C. Technical Assistance and Personnel Training
2.12  As an inalienable component of any World Bank Project, technical assistance and
personnel training is a prominent indicator which makes it differ from other projects. In
this project, 2,340,000 yuan were allocated for personnel training and technical
consultation, of which US$200,000 was from World Bank Loan. The major activities
are:
(a)   Foreign specialists were invited to come to Gansu and give lectures;
(b)   Groups of study tours were sent abroad to study educational development
in foreign countries;
(c)   Local training workshops were conducted.
2.13  Under the supervision and direction of World Bank, clear and detailed training
plans were made as the priority of the project implementation. Up to now, all the training
work was carried out smoothly according to the plan. Six American educational experts
were invited to provide technical consultation in the fields of education supervision,



-27 -                      ANNEX B
management of data and statistics, educational management and distance learning. Three
study tours were arranged to America and Germany to study on distance learning,
teachers' education and vocational education. The funds remained were used to invite
two specialist from Hong Kong Chinese University, who gave lectures on educational
management. The total WB Loan spent is US$220,000.
2.14  Using local funds, three training workshops for teachers and laboratory
technicians from 400 project lower secondary schools were conducted and another three
workshops were also carried out for operation of experiment equipment in normal
schools. Long-term and short-term training workshops were arranged for teachers of
different subjects and managers of different specialty by project units. The total funds
were 1,280,000 yuan (Table IV), which has historic significance in project units. The
strengthening of technical assistance and personnel training played an active role in
upgrading the personnel quality and management level in project units. It is also an
important aspect to let the credit loan achieve long-term benefits.
2.15  Obstacles in technical assistance and personnel training;
(a)   Due to the difference in the knowledge level between foreign experts and
the practical demands of project units, there was some difficulties for
trainees in accepting the information from foreign experts.
(b)   Some individual project units put emphasis on short-term training and
were reluctant to conduct long-term training, therefore, the quality of
training was influenced,
Project Management
2.16  Scientific and strict management is the basic guarantee for the smooth project
implementation.  As the first educational project conducted by Gansu Provincial
Government independently, great emphasis was attached on the project implementation.
From the beginning to the end, the provincial government and individual project units
have been working hard to fulfill their obligations and duties according to the Project
Proposal and the Credit Agreement. Through years of practice, the following points have
been summarized for the project management.
(a)   Specialized organizations have been established from upper level to
grassroots units. These organizations with steady personnel have the
characteristics of relatively independent, unification of authority and
responsibility, connections among project units and cooperation between
each other.
(b)   Training workshops for project personnel were conducted before and
during the project implementation. The emphasis was put on some
prominent aspects, such as procurement and payment.



-28 -                     ANNEX B
(c)   The project implementation strictly followed the rules and regulations of
World Bank and Chinese Government. It was not allowed to make
impulse changes in the project scope, investment direction and
procurement methods.
(d)   The local project funds were arranged as the first priority, even though the
provincial finance was quite limited.
(e)   Serious and  strict examinations were  conducted  for equipment
procurement list and construction standards to prevent overspent.
(f)   Having worried seriously at the bids for civil works and equipment
procurement.
(g)   Strengthening the contract management to reduce phenomena of payment
beyond the contract.
(h)   Working effectively on the audit and reimbursement and of procurement
to prevent unqualified payment on the one hand and accelerate the speed
of reimbursement;
(i)    Making annual project summary report;
(j)    Working efficiently and cooperatively with World Bank mission to solve
the obstacles in the project implementation.
Research on Improvement of Science Subject Experiment in 400 Lower Secondary
Schools
2.17  Entrusted by the World Bank delegation, Gansu Institute for Educational
Research (GIER) undertook the investigation on improvement of Science Subject
Experiment in 400 lower Secondary Schools to make a practical evaluation on the
beneficial result of the teaching aids distribution and supervise the effective application
and management of teaching equipment. A research group was formed and spend five
years (89-94) to conduct this research. The research was divided into four stages (Overall
investigation, test before teaching aids distribution, Post Distribution test and
Summarizing Evaluation). Various methods were used for the research, such as on-the-
spot investigation, forum talk, questionnaires and tests. The research results showed that
the following objectives have been achieved:
(a)   The schooling conditions for science subjects teaching have been greatly
improved in project schools;
(b)   The student achievements in learning have been raised obviously.
(c)   The teachers, initiative has been stimulated.



-29 -                      ANNEX B
(Details in "Evaluation Report on the Improvement of Science Subject Experiment in
Lower Secondary Schools" by GIER). The result of this research will make schools and
educational administration department at different levels fully recognize the important
role of teaching equipment so as to pay attention to the allocation and application of
teaching equipment. Moreover, the significance of this research has go beyond itself. It
shows that the educational research in our province has made new progress in serving the
countryside, serving schools, serving practice.
III. Beneficial Results of the Project
The Progress of Nine Year Compulsory Education Has Been Enhanced
3.1   By 1993, 54 counties achieved universalization of primary education and 14
counties universalized lower secondary education, but the figures were 33 and 0
respectively in 1986 before the implementation of the Project. The enrollment rate of
school-age children in 16 poorest counties has been greatly raised. The area of dangerous
school buildings in secondary and primary schools has been reduced from 1,650,000 m2
2
to 448,000 m2. The shortage of schooling furniture has been reduced from 740,000 sets
to 100,000 sets.
The Qualification Standards of Teachers Has Been Raised
3.2   Five teachers in colleges have reached their training scale more than ten years
ahead of time. They can meet the training demands for lower secondary teachers,
training for the next ten years or more. The improvement of schooling conditions in 23
project normal schools and the extended ways for teachers, inservice training has greatly
bettered the standards and levels of teachers' quality in basic education. Speaking of
quantity, the monitoring figures showed a great change in the ratio between teachers and
students. The number of students for per teacher in lower secondary and primary schools
has been lowered respectively from 21.4 and 22.4 before the project to 14.7 and 19.6
now. It is lower than the standards regulated by the State Education Commission. To a
certain degree, there is no insufficiency for demands of teachers now. Speaking of
quality, the monitoring indicators showed that the rate of qualified teachers has been
raised greatly. The rates of academically qualified teachers in lower secondary schools
and primary schools have been raised from 22.8% and 67.6% before the Project to 54.1%
and 81.8% respectively. The project implementation not only eased the shortage
situation in the past ten years, but also created a sound state to meet the demands for
qualified teachers in the future.
Science Experiment in 400 Lower Secondary Schools Has Been Improved
3.3   The project provided 400 lower secondary schools in poor districts with whole
sets of teaching aids for chemistry, physics and biology, which made all project schools
possess the ability to conduct all the experiment demonstration and students experiments
in groups. As a result, it improved the teaching of science experiment, stimulated the
students, interests in learning science subjects and trained their ability to do experiment



- 30 -                    ANNEXB
by themselves, which upgrades the education quality. Moreover, the distribution of
teaching aids enlightened the initiative of local governments in education. Funds for the
construction of laboratories and the making of instruments cabinets were collected by
local governments before the distribution of teaching aids. Training for teachers and lab
technicians were organized at provincial level. The completion of the project is the result
of joint efforts made cooperatively by World Bank, Gansu provincial government and
local governments. It is a good model for similar projects in the future.
Project Management Level Has Been Improved
3.4   During nearly ten years of practice in project implementation, project
management departments and project units have learned and mastered the scientific ways
of strict management in World Bank projects, such as project establishment, proposal,
competitive bidding, contract management, financial disbursement and objective
monitoring. This provided helpful experience for raising the management level of
educational departments and for disseminating the methods of project management.
IV. Project Evaluation
A. Experience
Striking Key Points and Rational Design
4.1   During the project establishment, both side (the lender and the borrower) realized
the priority and imminent necessity for the development of basic education in poor areas.
Correct decision was made that the credit loan for education would be used for the
development of basic education.
4.2   Teachers' education and training were selected from all the aspects of basic
education as the major targets of the project. This represented the principles of World
Bank Loan, which is centralizing the investment to solve the prominent problems and
achieve the beneficial results so as to avoid the shortcomings of diversified investment.
4.3   After nearly two years of repeated discussion and consultation about the Project
Proposal, the most desirable plans were selected for school buildings' locations and
equipment distribution.  Careful consideration was also taken into account about
unpredictable situations which might take place during the project implementation.
Sufficient contingent funds were prepared. Although the project implementation took a
long period of time and was affected by serious inflation, all the projects have been
successfully completed as planned and no deduction occurred in project items because of
insufficient funds.
The Importance of World Bank Staffs' Participation
4.4   Throughout the project, experts from World Bank have been involving in the
project management and playing an important role in project implementation. From the



-31-                      ANNEX B
beginning to the end, 13 World Bank missions made up of specialists on education, civil
works, equipment procurement and financial disbursement were sent to Gansu to conduct
supervising consultation and provide technical assistance on their own cost. Their rich
knowledge, ardent working attitude, scientific approach and practical style are very
impressive. Most of their suggestions were practical, constructive and suitable to the
reality of project units. we sincerely hope that the cooperative ties between World Bank
and the Borrower would be strengthened to further upgrade the efficiency of credit
management.
Obvious Effect of Project Management
4.5   Through 50 years of practice in various projects implementation, World Bank has
accumulated a systematic experience in project procedures, methods and principles,
especially about the design of project: proposals, competitive bidding, contract
management, financial disbursement and target monitoring. The practice in Gansu
Project proved again that these management procedures are scientific and efficient.
Gansu Province will sum up the theory and methods of project management and use them
in forming rules of project management, which would be disseminated in future projects.
Prominent Effect: of Project Supervision by Financial Department
4.6   The smooth development of project establishment, proposal and implementation
were closely  connected with the involvement and  supervision  of provincial
comprehensive departments, especially Provincial Finance Department.
(a)   Provincial Planning Commission and Finance Department involved
actively in the Project Proposal at the project establishing stage. They
enhanced the project establishment by determining the investment scope
and scale, the commitment and collection of local project funds.
(b)   During the project implementation, Provincial Finance Department
executed strictly according to the financial regulations of World Bank to
supervise the proper use of credit and allocate project funds on time. This
ensured the smooth implementation of the project.
(c)   Although the provincial finance was in a difficult situation, local funds
were collected and allocated for project turnover, which accelerated the
project progress.
(d)   Special attention and priority were put on the credit funds for personnel
training. It had an distinguished position in the project.
(e)   Many training workshops on World Bank finance payment and project
management were conducted to upgrade the professional level of project
management personnel.



- 32 -                      ANNEX B
B. Lessons learned
More Funds Should Be Allocated for Civil Works
4.7   The major aspect for developing basic educational conditions in poor areas is the
construction of schools buildings. Investment ratio of civil works should be increased
respectively according to the lowering of school levels, that is, the lower level of the
school is, the higher ratio of investment for civil works should be allocated. In the
Project Proposal, however, the credit ratio for civil works confirmed by World Bank was
somewhat lower (60%) while the ratio for equipment procurement was higher (39%). As
a result, big readjustment had to be made during the project implementation. Nearly
US$1,000,000 from equipment were reallocated into civil works, which affected the
progress of project implementation. We would like to suggest that the investment ratio
for civil works should be increased in future World Bank educational projects, especially
in the project for basic education in poor areas.
Technical Consultation Should Mainly Rely on Local Specialists
4.8   In every World Bank project, it is regulated that certain number of foreign experts
should be arranged to conduct technical consultation. This regulation plays a positive
role in raising project-management-level and standards of the Borrower. However, the
actual reality of project units should be taken into account so as to raise the beneficial
results of the credit support. As a poor province in Northwest China, Gansu has a wide
gap in education level, compared with that of advanced foreign countries. It is difficult
for trainees to digest what the foreign experts lectured, besides the high cost on foreign
experts. Our suggestion is that the ratio of local specialists consultation should be
increased during the project implementation in poor areas. While inviting foreign
experts, attention should be paid to select them form the countries which leave the similar
conditions in educational development with the project areas. In this way, the active role
of foreign experts can be put in full play and the beneficial results of consultation can be
highly raised.



- 33 -                    ANNEX B
Table 1. Completion Status of Project Investment
(unit: Y million, $ million)
Items               Appraisal Report        Actual Completion
Local   WB    Total    Local   WB    Total
Land Acquisition              6.96    0      6.96      4.94    0      4.94
(1.88)  (0)    (1.88)    (1.07)  (0)    (1.07)
Civil Works
1. Teachers Colleges and     14.80   44.40   59.20   28.09   67.61   95.70
Normal Schools Training
Center
(4.00) (12.00) (16.0)   (6.10) (14.32) (20.42)
2. 400 Lower Secondary       32.70    0     32.70     23.00    0     23.00
Schools
(8.84)  (0)    (8.84)    (5.00)  (0)    (5.00)
Furniture                     5.40    0      5.40      6.43    0      6.43
(1.46)  (0)    (1.46)    (1.40)  (0)    (1.40)
Equipment and teaching        0     28.86   28.86      0     30.91   30.91
materials
(0)    (7.80)  (7.80)    (0)    (6.92)  (6.92)
Local Experts                 0.26    0      0.26
(0.07)  (0)    (0.07)
Local Training                1.70    0      1.70      1.27    0      1.27
(0.46)  (0)    (0.46)    (0.27)  (0)    (0.27)
Foreign Experts               0       0.30    0.30     0      0.65    0.65
(0)    (0.08)  (0.08)    (0)    (0.13)  (0.13)
Training Abroad               0       0.44    0.44     0      0.51    0.51
(0)    (0.12)  (0.12)   (0)    (0.09)  (0.09)
Total                     61.82   74.00  135.82    63.73   99.68  163.41
(16.71) (20.00) (36.71)   (13.84) (21.46) (35.30)
Note: The figures in blanks are



- 34 -                    ANNEX B
Table II. Completion Status of Civil Works
(unit: m ; Y'000)
Project Unit             Appraisal Report         Actual Completion
Area  Investment    Area  Investment World Bank
Total                   282,278  78,760     265,349  123,639     67,609
5 Teachers' Colleges    152,251  44,540     136,954   85,549     56,826
Lanzhou                22,300   5,900       19,286   11,416     8,095
Qingyang               29,000   7,540      23,328   12,386      9,017
Tianshui               42,610   13,800     43,303   27,365     17,297
Zhangye                32,120   8,480      26,149   18,432     11,999
Hezuo                  26,211    8,820     24,888   15,950     10,418
4 Normal Schools         24,027   6,320      22,815    9,775      7,238
Lanzhou                 1,200     420        1,293    1,919     1,509
Qingyang                5,760   1,440       5,870    1,931      1,434
Tianshui                8,567   2,370       7,495    2,910      2,194
Zhangye                 8,500   2,090       8,157    3,015      2,101
Training Center          14,000   4,900      13,580    5,315     3,545
Subtotal             190,278  55,760     173,349  100,639     67,609
400 Lower Secondary      92,000  23,000      92,000   23,000
Schools



- 35 -                    ANNEX B
Table III. Implementation Status of Equipment and Furniture
(unit: Y'000)
Project Unit           Appraisal Report            Actual Completion
Sub.  Equip. Furniture    Sub.  Equip. Furniture Others
Total              28,788 24,268  4,520     37,340  30,911  3,954   2,475
Teachers' Colleges   10,625  8,002  2,650   14,092   9,866  3,435    791
Lanzhou            1,550  1,150   400      2,289   1,524   520     245
Qingyang           1,838  1,358   480      2,527   1,790   662      75
Tianshui           3,218  2,32,   890      3,785   2,379  1,122    284
Zhangye            2,214  1,754   460      2,954   2,341    593     20
Hezuo              1,832  1,412   420      2,537   1,832   538      167
Training Center     1,692  1,392   300       2,267   1,762   384     121
Normal Schools      2,950  2,950             3,866   3,866
Lower Secondary     6,001  4,531  1,470      6,703   6,703
Schools
TV Ed. Institute    7,493  7,393    100      8,587   8,375    135     77
GPIO                                         1,545    339           1,206
Cost on Research and                          280                    280
others



- 36 -                    ANNEXB
Table IV: Completion Status of Technical Assistance and Personnel Training
(unit: Y)
Project Unit                   Appraisal Report Cost   Actual Completion Cost
Total                               2,340,000              2,437,485
Local Training                      1,530,000              1,279,330
Teachers' Colleges                   820,000                634,000
Normal Schools                       100,000                 60,000
Lower Secondary Schools              400,000                338,000
Training Center                      100,000                122,500
TV Education Institute               100,000                100,000
Project Management                    10,000                 24,830
Training Abroad                       440,000                508,155
Local Consultation                     70,000
TV Education Institute                30,000
Training Center                       40,000
Foreign Consultation                  300,000                650,000
Note: Cost on local consultation is included in local training.



- 37 -                     ANNEX B
Table V. Completion Status of Project Monitoring Indicators
Project Unit & Content                        Beginning  Target  Completion
Five Teachers Colleges
No. of in-college students (preservice)          3,291      5,800    8,005
No. of in-college students (inservice)             240      2,400    1,130
Graduates of preservice students                   915     2,500    2,769
Graduate of inservice students                       0      1,200     567
No. of permanent teachers                          635      1,025     970
23 Normal Schools
No. of in-school students                       14,257    17,000   15,047
No. of graduated students                        3,894      4,500    5,278
% of equipment purchased                             0       100      130
400 Lower Secondary Schools
No. of laboratories built                            0       400      400
No. of science teachers trained                      0       800    1,013
No of lab. technicians trained                       0       400      837
% of equipment purchased                             0       100      142
TV Education Institute
No. of training centers open                       101      1,600    1,644
Video tape courses production                        2        10       10
Cumulative no. of primary teachers trained           0    36,000   36,467
Cumulative no. of secondary teachers trained     2,500    29,000   34,223
Cumulative no. of primary teachers got qualified     0     7,000   27,202
certification
Cumulative no of secondary school teachers got       0     7,500    9,793
qualified certification
Training Center of School Administration
No. of students trained                             89       400      401
No. of graduated students                           43       200      195
No. of permanent teachers                           19        50       51
Consultation Service
Local consulting specialists (person/month)          0       300      350
Overseas consulting specialists (person/month)       0         6        8



- 38 -                     ANNEX B
Table VI. Completion Status of Action Plan Monitoring Indicators in 1993
Items                                    Beginning    Target  Completion
1. No. of counties popularized primary           33         50         54
education
2. No. of counties universalized nine year        0          8         14
compulsory education
3. Average rate of school enrollment rate in 16  65         75       92.2
poorest counties
4. Percentage of girls students in primary       40         43       44.1
schools
5. Percentage of girls students in lower         33         35       40.5
secondary schools
6. Gap of supply and demand for primary           0          0      -2,579
schools teachers (persons)
7. Gap of supply and demand for lower         7,606      2,000      -3,965
secondary school teachers (persons)
8. Percentage of village or minban teachers      56         45       42.5
9. Monthly income of village or minban        40-50      44-50      43-48
teachers (Yuan/month)
10. Area of dangerous school buildings (10,000   165         90       44.8
m2)
11. Gap of supply and demand for schooling        74          0         10
furniture (10,000 sets)



- 39 -                     ANNEX C
ANNEX C: BORROWER'S OPERATION PLAN
The completion of project implementation does not mean the ending of the
project. To make the project play an active role continuously and develop further, all the
administrative departments of project units have the responsibility to support the project
actively and efficiently. Based on the practical needs and the financial possibility, we
made an action plan for the next five years (1995-1999).
1 .    Five Teachers' Colleges
(a)   The scale of preservice students in the project colleges will be enlarged
further from 8,200 to 9,200, of which 8,200 in teachers' education (1,000
inservice training included) and 1,000 in other specialties.
(b)   The training funds for per student will be increased from 2,900 in 1994 to
4,400 by 1999.
(c)   4%  of the college teachers will be arranged annually to undertake
advanced studies. There will be 200 teachers trained to get master and
doctor degrees or as visiting scholars.
(d)   1,200 inservice teachers at lower secondary schools will be arranged to
underrate academic training annually, 500 in provincial or prefectural
education institutes, 300 in 5 teachers' colleges, 300 for TV education,
100 through corespondent and evening universities. There will be 6,000
personnel trained in five years. The annual training funds is 2 million
yuan. For five years, the total funds will be 10 million yuan.
(e)   The annual maintenance funds of 400,000 yuan will be arranged for the
project construction. The total funds for five years will be 2 million yuan.
(f)   The annual funds of 1 million yuan will be arranged for the maintenance
and replacement of teaching equipment. The funds for five years will be 5
million yuan.
2.    23 Normal Schools
(a)   Since there is no shortage for primary school teachers in Gansu now, the
future direction for normal schools development will be keeping the
present schooling scale and raising the educational quality. The scale of
23 normal schools will be controlled between 15,000 to 16,000.



-40-                       ANNEX C
(b)   The annual training spending for per student will be raised from 1,500 in
1994 to 2,200 by 1999.
(c)   About 40 normal school teachers (3% of the total number) will be
arranged annually to be trained in higher educational institutions inside or
outside Gansu Province. The total number will be 200 in five years.
(d)   600 inservice Teachers at primary schools will undertake training annually
for academic qualification in county teachers' training schools and some
normal schools. There will be 3,000 in five years. The annual training
funds of 720,000 will be financed by prefectures and counties. It will be
3.6 million yuan for five years.
(e)   The annual funds of 40,000 will be arranged for the maintenance of
project school buildings by responsible department of prefectures,
(f)   Provincial and prefectural education departments will join together to
finance the maintenance and replacement of teaching equipment. The
annual funds is 0.9 million yuan, and 4.5 million yuan for five years.
3.    TV Education Institute
(a)   In the next five years, 75 satellite TV education centers as part of the
continuous project will be set up in some normal schools, education
institutes and teachers training schools. These TV centers will be used to
extend the training and advanced studies for inservice teachers. The funds
depend mainly on prefectures and counties, with provincial
supplementary.
(b)   Our Province will arranged 400,000 yuan public funds annually to
maintain and improve the working level after project implementation, and
100,000 yuan for equipment maintenance, replacement and supplementary
parts.
4.    Science Experiment Laboratories in 400 Lower Secondary Schools
(a)   1,000 yuan will be arranged annually in each school for repair and
replacement of the teaching aids, 300 from provincial finance, 300 from
prefectures and counties and 400 from school itself. The total for five
years will be 2 million yuan.
(b)   Short-term and long-term training workshops will continue to be used as
the main way for science teachers to reinforce and raise their ability of
experiment operation.



-41-                       ANNEX C
(c)   Among the other 600 lower secondary schools, 200 schools will be
equipped with standard teaching aids in five years. By 1999, more than
70% of schools will be equipped.
5.    The Center of School Administration
(a)   The scale of preschool students will be enlarged from 400 to 480. The
annual enrollment of education administrative personnel and middle
school principals will be 240.
(b)   The Center will arrange 3 teachers to be trained for academic diploma in
each year, altogether 15 for five years.
(c)   The annual maintenance funds of 40,000 will be arranged for the project
civil works, 100,000 for equipment. The annual funds will be 140,000 and
700,000 for five years.
6.    Management of Education
(a)   The system  of computer network will be gradually established at
provincial, prefectural and county levels in five years to further enhance
the dissemination of MIS research at grassroots units.
(b)   Every educational administration departments of county level and above
will be equipped with at least a 386 computer within three years. The
annual funds for procurement will be 1.2 million yuan, one third from
provincial finance and two thirds from prefectures and counties. The total
funds of three years will be 3.6 million yuan.
(c)   One to two months centralized training workshops will be conducted for
grassroots personnel of MIS system in turn, 40 personnel at provincial
level, 60 at prefectural level and 200 at county level. The training funds
for five years will be 300,000 yuan, mainly financed by the Province.









I









