Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16421-CHA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
GANSU PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2812-CHA/CREDIT 1793-CHA)
PART I-AGRICULTURE COMPONENT
January 23, 1997
Rural and Social Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00 = $0.12 (1996)
1986 (appraisal)    $1 = Y 3.71
1987              $1 = Y 3.71
1988              $1 = Y 3.71
1989              $1 = Y 3.71
1990              $1=Y4.72
1991              $1 = Y 5.22
1992              $1=Y 5.38
1993              $1 = Y 5.45
1994              $1 = Y 8.70
1995              $1 = Y 8.31
1996              $1=Y8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DAP         - Di-Ammonium Phosphate
ERR         - Economic Rate of Return
GPIO        - Gansu Project Implementation Office
ICB         - International Competitive Bidding
ICR         - Implementation Completion Report
ITC/CNTIC  - International Tendering Company/China National Technical Import/
Export Corporation
NCB         - National Competitive Bidding
O&M         - Operation and Maintenance
PLG         - Project Leading Group
PMO         - Project Management Office
SAR         - Staff Appraisal Report
TBM         - Tunnel Boring Machine
UNDP        - United Nations Development Programs
Vice President (Acting)   Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi, EAP
Director                Nicholas C. Hope, EA2
Division Chief          Joseph Goldberg, EA2RS
Staff Member            Lang S. Tay, Senior Irrigation Engineer, EA2RS



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FORWARD
1.    Project Background. The Gansu Provincial Development Project comprises
three components for agriculture, education and industrial diversification. The Project
was identified based on the findings of a 1986 Bank study, Growth and Development in
Gansu Province, carried out to assist the Central and Provincial Governments in
developing an overall strategy for income growth and poverty reduction. In the early
1980s, 41 percent of Gansu's population lived in poverty, compared to 13 percent
nationally, and rural per capita incomes were the lowest nationwide. The Bank study
identified a range of issues facing the province but found three problems acute. First,
incomes and living standards in the province's upland region of Dingxi were found
particularly low. Dingxi had 30 percent of the provincial population -- almost all
employed in agriculture, a larger proportion of rural poor, irrigation of only 13 percent of
the cultivated area and a shortage of drinking water, and an urgent need for land
rehabilitation to counter erosion of the loess soils and to introduce appropriate agricultural
production systems. Second, restrictions on labor mobility combined with unsustainable
pressure on the province's fragile natural resource base argued for the development of
labor-intensive rural industries relying on low-cost labor. Third, improvement of the
educational system, particularly of teacher training in basic education, was identified as
critical, in view of international experience showing education's prime role in allowing
mobility to more remunerative nonagricultural employment, adoption of improved
agricultural technology, and -- for women -- fertility reduction, improvement in family
health and retention of children in school.
2.    Project Design. To address these problems, three separate projects were
prepared and appraised. However, when the amount of Bank Group assistance for
education and industrial diversification had to be scaled back to reflect provincial
repayment capacity, the three operations in different sectors were processed together as
components of a single Gansu Provincial Development Project, financed by Ln. 2812/
Cr. 1793-CHA. The agriculture component received $130 million equivalent of credit
proceeds, the education component $20 million equivalent of IDA funds, and an IBRD
loan of $20 million and credit proceeds of $500,000 equivalent went to industrial
diversification.
3.    The project's agriculture component comprised construction of the technically
challenging 57,000-ha Yindaruqin irrigation scheme, settlement of the irrigated area by
15,000 poor farm families from nearby resource-poor areas, land improvement over
75,000 ha in Dingxi's Guanchuan River Basin, and institutional support. The education
component included upgrading of facilities for training primary school teachers, expansion
of facilities for training lower secondary school teachers, increased in-service teacher
training via expansion of television training facilities, improved science education in 400
lower secondary schools in poor counties, and support to enhance education
administration and management. In support of industrial diversification, the project
provided a $20 million line of credit to finance small- and medium-sized subprojects in
rural and light industry, as well as training and technical assistance for the enterprises
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
assisted and the project financial intermediary, the Gansu Investment and Trust Company
(GITC). While the province assumed the interest rate and exchange rate risks on the Bank
loan, GITC bore the commercial risk.
4.    Project Outcome. The project's agricultural and education activities were,
overall, successfully implemented, although a two-year extension of the credit was
required to complete the agriculture component's Yindaruqin Irrigation Subcomponent.
That subcomponent, entailing major tunneling works with difficult site conditions and
complex engineering, suffered from poor performance by some contractors, lack of
counterpart funds, and bureaucratic land settlement processes. Some on-farm works and
land settlement activities are still ongoing with local funding. The Guanchuan
subcomponent in Dingxi raised farmers' incomes by almost 250 percent three years after
completion of works, while net incomes of farmers in the Yindaruqin area have eventually
increased by 136 percent for the low-income group and by 55 to 60 percent for others.
The land rehabilitation program tested under this and other projects has been subsequently
refined and used in the Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2616), among
others.
5.    The education component, the first Bank Group education operation focused on
only one province, increased the number of qualified primary and lower-secondary school
teachers, improved the quality of science teachers and education in poor counties, and
improved the capabilities of education administrators in the design, development, and
implementation of educational programs. The capacity building for educational
administrators and managers was important for continued improvement of the system.
The administrators and managers trained under this project helped design and implement
the subsequent Third Basic Education Project (Cr. 2831 -CHA).
6.    The industrial diversification component attempted to raise rural incomes in
resource-poor areas with limited agricultural potential and a population surpassing the
carrying capacity of the land. Since labor migration in China at the time was allowed only
in the context of limited, officially sanctioned programs like the one under this project's
agriculture component, the project attempted to provide in-situ assistance to the rural
poor by promoting nonagricultural employment. While the provincial study cautioned
planners "to look carefully at the policy and institutional environment that would facilitate
development of productive nonagricultural jobs in Gansu" (para. 3.01), implying
inadequacy in the current environment, the severity of rural poverty in Gansu, where some
parts of the population had to rely on government provision of grain, water and fuel relief,
was considered adequate justification for piloting limited support to employment
diversification.
7.    Implementation of the component showed the project's goals in the sector to be
overambitious and the study's warning to be justified. While 17 subprojects received
funding for modem equipment and technology and small civil works, financial
performance of the beneficiaries -- 55 percent of which were non-state rural enterprises --
suffered from many problems. Among these were subborrowers' inexperience in
enterprise management, shortages of counterpart funds during implementation and of



iii
working capital during production, and economic reforms introduced during the project
period that caused enterprise costs to rise significantly and demand for their products to
fall. With most project enterprises still producing at less than 50 percent of capacity, their
loan repayment to GITC suffered as did GITC' s financial condition. Positively, however,
technical assistance and training provided under the project introduced provincial planners
to the concepts of financial and economic analysis of investments, and this appreciably
improved local planning capabilities.
8.    Assessment of Project Strategy. The project responded appropriately to
provincial needs as identified in the Bank Group study. It also provided experience with
various types of sectoral interventions aimed at poverty alleviation. Although this project
predates introduction of the current Bank Group poverty alleviation strategy in China,
with its targeting of whole operations to specific poor counties identified by the central
and provincial governments, the agricultural component was well focused by emphasizing
the Dingxi Region. The education component addressed the province' s general need for
better qualified teachers and did target poor counties for improved science teaching.
Moreover, it was followed by the poverty-targeted basic education project series,
including the Third Basic Education Project which covers Gansu and six other provinces.
The industrial diversification component required about half of the subprojects to be in
rural areas.
9.    The issues with respect to rural industrial development are its difficulty as well as
its value relative to other possible interventions for poverty alleviation. Experience
internationally indicates a high failure rate in town and village enterprises, and the ongoing
China Southwest Poverty Reduction Project (Ln. 3906/Cr. 2744-CHA), a well planned,
integrated multi-sectoral initiative in Guangxi, Guizhou and Yunnan Provinces, has in its
first year disbursed little for a small township and village enterprise development
component. This suggests the difficulty in using rural industrial development as a poverty
alleviation tool.
10.   The Gansu Provincial Development Project's highly successful land development
component in Guanchuan proved the effectiveness of using a package of measures to
improve loess soils. In much of the Loess Plateau, covering 640,000 square kilometers of
Gansu, Shaanxi, and Shanxi Provinces and the Autonomous Regions of Inner Mongolia
and Ningxia, good new land can be readily and cost-effectively created by mechanized and
manual terracing of the soft soil, where slopes are not too steep and population has not yet
exceeded carrying capacity. Using the approach tested under this project, the Bank
Group-financed Loess Plateau Project (Cr. 2616-CHA) being carried out in several
provinces including Gansu, the Shanxi Poverty Alleviation Project (Cr. 2834-CHA) and
the Gansu Hexi Corridor Project (Ln. 4028/Cr. 2870-CHA) are raising agricultural
productivity and the incomes of very poor farmers over a wide area of the Yellow River
basin.
11.   Summary. Although the Gansu Provincial Development Project lacked some of
the design sophistication now brought to the Bank Group's poverty reduction efforts in
China, it significantly improved the incomes of very poor farmers, enhanced educational



iv
quality in poor and other areas of the province, and demonstrated the difficulty of rural
enterprise development. The land improvement package tested under the project proved a
highly effective means of raising agricultural productivity and reducing poverty. The
follow-up Loess Plateau, Shanxi Poverty Alleviation and Gansu Hexi Corridor Projects
are now replicating and building upon the significant achievement of the earlier initiative.



CONTENTS
PREFACE ......................................................                                                iii
EVALUATION  SUMMARY .......................................................v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................1
A. Project Objectives and Description                       ......................................1
B. Implementation Experience and Results .....................................................2
C. Project Impact .......................................................5
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project .....................................................6
E. Project Sustainability .......................................................8
F. IDA  Performnance .......................................................9
G. Borrower Performance ...................................................... .                    10
H. Assessment of Outcome ......................................................                     10
I. Future Operation .......................................................11
J. Key Lessons Learned ......................................................                       12
PART  II: STATISTICAL TABLES ......................................................                           14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits (Agriculture Component) .14
Table 3: Project Timetable. .                                                                       15
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual .15
Table 5: Key Indicators For Project Implementation .16
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations .17
Table 7: Studies included in Project .19
Table 8a:  Project Costs in $ million ..........................                                    19
Table 8b:  Project Costs in Y  Million ..........................                                   20
Table 8c: Project Financing..........                                                       ......... 20
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................................... 21
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ......................................................          21
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........................ 22
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (All Components) .......................... 22
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ......................................................             22
ANNEX  A: MISSION  AIDE  MEMOIRES ......................................................                         23
ANNEX B: COMMITMENT LETTER FROM GANSU PROVINCE
TO COMPLETE THE REMAINING WORKS ......................................... 29
ANNEX C: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR    .                                                             . 30






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
GANSU PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2812-CHA/CREDIT 1793-CHA)
AGRICULTURE COMPONENT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agriculture
Component of the Gansu Provincial Development Project in China, for which a credit in the
amount of SDR 102.87 million ($130 million equivalent) were approved on May 12, 1987,
and made effective on January 19, 1988.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1996. Final credit disbursement took place on
October 31, 1996, at which time the balance of SDR 86,543.89 was canceled. Total
disbursements amounted to SDR 102.79 million for the Agriculture Component.
The ICR for the Agricultural Component was prepared by missions comprising
Lang S. Tay (Task Manager) and Qun Li (Consultant Economist) of the Rural and Social
Development Operations Division, China and Mongolia Department. The Report was
reviewed by Messrs. Joseph Goldberg (EA2RS Division Chief) and Yo Kimura (EA2
Project Advisor). The Borrower provided comments, which are included as Annex C to the
ICR.
Preparation of the ICR was completed following the various Bank ICR missions,
and is based on materials in the project files and meetings with project staff in the field.
The Borrower contributed with views and data requested, its own evaluation of project's
execution, and comments on the draft ICR.






v -
CHINA
GANSU PROVINCLIL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2812-CHA/CREDIT 1793-CHA)
AGRICULTURE COMPONENT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Description
1.    The main objective of the component was to raise the living standards and income
levels for about 96,000 poor households in Gansu Province through increased agricultural
production achieved through:  (a) 57,000 hectare (ha) irrigation development and
improvement, and land settlement by voluntary migration of the newly irrigated land; and
(b) improvement of rainfed agriculture on some 76,000 ha in Guanchuan River Basin
through soil and water conservation, and improved farming practices. The main features of
the project were: (i) construction of the Yindaruqin Irrigation Scheme to serve about
57,000 ha through completion of a 90-km long feeder channel, two main canals, a network
of branch, lateral and sublateral canals and drains, and the development of service units
covering about 250 ha each; (ii) settlement of the newly irrigated land by about 15,000 poor
farm families from the surrounding resource-poor areas; (iii) land improvement of existing
rainfed agriculture in Guanchuan River Basin, Dingxi Prefecture, including benching and
terracing of about 76,000 ha cultivated land, benefiting about 39,000 families (205,000
people); and (iv) institutional support and strengthening through provision of operation and
maintenance machinery and equipment, staff training and consultants' services.
2.    The project concept and objectives were generally well designed and appropriate to
Gansu's strategy of reducing poverty and increasing agricultural production for the
province. The formulation of the project was preceded by a detailed review of agricultural
development issues and potentials in Gansu, as part of the Gansu Provincial Study (Report
No. 6064-CHA-Growth and Development in Gansu, China).
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The implementation of the Guanchuan River Basin Subcomponent was completed
according to schedule, with some of the physical targets exceeding the original estimated
quantities. Due to its sheer size of work magnitude, difficult site conditions and
engineering complexity, the Yindaruqin Irrigation Subcomponent was completed two years
beyond the original schedule with some of the on-farm works and land settlement
remaining to be completed during 1997-99 with local funding.  The Yindaruqin
Subcomponent also experienced delay caused by contractors' poor performance on the



- vi -
construction of the Feeder Channel, lack of counterpart funds and the bureaucratic
processes in land settlement.
4.    Due to inflation and increased work items and quantities resulting from change of
engineering designs to meet site conditions, the total project cost was increased by about 27
percent from $250 million at appraisal to about $318 million, with about $246 million
cumulative expenditures at closing. The increase in project total cost was incurred mainly
in the Yindaruqin Subcomponent.
5.   IDA's overall performance in identification, preparation and appraisal was
considered as satisfactory, but could have been improved in the packaging of procurement
of major civil works and in the formulation with the Borrower of a land settlement plan,
which should have been covenanted in the loan/credit agreements. The Borrower's
performance in project implementation and management was generally satisfactory but its
construction supervision of major civil works in the Yindaruqin Subcomponent could have
been strengthened through more adequate and competent site staff to ensure better
construction work quality. Also, timely allocation of adequate counterpart funds could have
expedited the project implementation.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
6.    Overall Finding. The project's overall outcome is satisfactory despite some
remaining works to be completed under the Yindaruqin Subcomponent. The most
significant result achieved was the increased agricultural production and farmers' incomes
in the Guanchuan Subcomponent over the last three years since its completion in 1992.
Fanners' net income per capita increased from Y 223 to Y 762, an increase of 242 percent.
Comparable increases in income were also achieved by settler farmers in the Yindaruqin
Irrigation Subcomponent. Net income per capita increased from Y 110 to Y 260, an
increase of 136 percent for the low-income group, Y 310 to Y 480 (increase of 55 percent)
for the medium-income group, and Y 530 to Y 850 (increase of 60 percent) for the high-
income group. The economic rate of returr. (ERR) for the Guanchuan Subcomponent is
evaluated at 27.6 percent compared to 18.6 percent estimated at appraisal. The ERR for
Yindaruqin Subcomponent is 12.7 percent compared to 12.2 percent estimated at appraisal.
The overall component ERR is 15.1 percent compared to 13 percent estimated at appraisal.
7.    Project Impacts. The construction and completion of the project activities has:
(a) provided opportunities to rural laborers to earn additional cash income by participating
directly in project construction or working for various contractors; (b) provided impetus for
economic growth to the Yongdeng County center and future expansion and development of
urban and industrial centers in the vicinity of Lanzhou Airport with the availability of
assured water sources; (c) trained a number of project staff in project preparation,
implementation and management for Gansu Province as evidenced from the efficient
preparation of the newly approved Gansu Hexi Corridor Project (Ln. 4028/Cr. 2870-CHA);
(d) transferred the technology on modern tunneling techniques and equipment (e.g., use of
tunnel boring machines-TBMs) to the various Chinese engineering entities who visited



- vii -
the Yindaruqin Subcomponent; (e) provided better-quality drinking water to the local
population and livestock in the project area, thereby reducing the incidence of waterbome
diseases and improving basic health; (f) provided some induced secondary benefits of road
access and rural electricity to some local population residing in the vicinity of the Feeder
Channel; and (g) progressively improved the eco-environments of the project area through
increasing flora and fauna resulting from forest belts established and tree planting along the
canal systems.
8.    Sustainability. The component is likely to be sustainable. The main objective
conforms to the Gansu provincial government's long-term strategy for poverty reduction in
the province. The provincial government is fully committed to ensure success of the
project. The project beneficiaries are also motivated and responding enthusiastically to the
project facilities provided. These facilities would be operated and maintained on a
sustainable basis with the operation and maintenance (O&M) plan prepared and the present
establishment responsible for O&M expanded to cope with the additional workload. In the
Yindaruqin Subcomponent, water charges would be collected and progressively increased
to meet the full annual O&M costs plus a certain amount of depreciation costs for capital
works and installations. In the Guanchuan Subcomponent, completed in 1992, monitoring
of the various performance parameters showed that the projected benefits have been
consistently sustained except during 1995, which experienced the worst drought in 60 years.
9.    Future Operation. The immediate task is to complete the remaining on-farm
works and land settlement in the Yindaruqin Subcomponent for which the Borrower has
given a firm commitment. The O&M of the completed irrigation facilities would be
strengthened through the expanded establishment and full use of the O&M equipment
provided under the project. Agricultural support services and credit would be provided to
the settler farmers to sustain their production. A system would be established to monitor
the long-term impact of irrigation on changes in water table level and soil salinity.
Experiments and pilot projects to promote "high-yield, high-quality and high-value" crops
would be continued and technical feasibility studies would be undertaken to explore water-
saving irrigation techniques and development of mini-hydropower on the Feeder Channel
and the two main canals. For the Guanchuan Subcomponent, the proposals are to expand
the soil/water conservation works and land improvement with domestic funds; continue
monitoring and evaluation of soil and water effects in the sampled areas, including
socioeconomic monitoring of sampled project beneficiaries; and to expand and strengthen
agricultural extension to train farmers in new and scientific production technology.
10.   Lessons Learned. The key lessons learned were: (a) for a major and complex
engineering project, more attention should be paid before appraisal by the Borrower and the
Bank to detailed engineering investigation and design, contract packaging and realistic
implementation schedules, taking into consideration the Borrower's resources and
implementing capacity; (b) evaluation of bids for major civil works should be more
stringent on bidders' capability and past performance (i.e., on prequalification) as opposed
to major focus on price (bid evaluation); (c) adequate and timely counterpart funds are
critical to ensure scheduled implementation, thereby avoiding delay and increases in project



- viii -
cost; (d) time-bound implementation plans for land settlement of migrant settlers should be
prepared at appraisal and covenanted in the Loan/Credit agreements for effective
implementation; (e) the use of local consultants with suitable qualifications and experience
could be promoted with substantial saving to the Borrower; and (f) large-scale irrigation
development with land settlement for poverty reduction invariably takes a longer time to
complete, Borrower's optimism and enthusiasm notwithstanding.



- I -
CHINA
GANSU PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2812-CHA/CREDIT 1793-CHA)
AGRICULTURE COMPONENT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    The main objective of the component was to raise the living standards and income
levels for about 96,000 poor households in Gansu Province through increased agricultural
production. This was mainly achieved through: (a) construction of the Yindaruqin
Irrigation Scheme, covering 57,000 ha, and settlement of the newly irrigated land by
about 15,000 poor farm families from surrounding drought-stricken areas; and
(b) improvement of rainfed agriculture on some 76,000 ha in Guanchuan River Basin
through soil and water conservation, and improved farming practices.
2.    The main features of the project were as follows:
(a)   construction of the Yindaruqin Irrigation Scheme to serve about 57,000 ha
through completion of a 90-km long feeder channel, two main canals, a
network of branch, lateral and sublateral canals and drains, and the
development of service units covering about 250 ha each;
(b)   settlement of the newly irrigated land by about 15,000 poor farm families
from the surrounding resource-poor areas;
(c)   land improvement of existing rainfed agriculture in Guanchuan River Basin,
Dingxi Prefecture, including benching and terracing of about 76,000 ha of
cultivated land, benefiting about 39,000 families (205,000 people); and
(d)   institutional support and strengthening through provision of operation and
maintenance machinery and equipment, staff training and consultants'
services.
3.    The project concept and objectives were generally well designed and appropriate to
Gansu's strategy of reducing poverty and increasing agricultural production in the province.
The formulation of the project was preceded by a detailed review of agricultural
development issues and potentials in Gansu, as part of the Gansu Provincial Study (Report
No. 6064-CHA-Growth and Development in Gansu, China).



- 2 -
B. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
4.    General. The project achieved fully its objective in the Guanchuan River Basin
Subcomponent and only partially in the Yindaruqin Irrigation Subcomponent.  The
satisfactory performance of the Guanchuan River Basin Subcomponent has resulted in an
economic rate of return (ERR) of 27.6 percent compared to 18.6 percent estimated at
appraisal. On the other hand, the performance of the Yindaruqin Irrigation Subcomponent
could not be fully assessed since some of its physical work have not yet been fully
completed-canal network, on-farm development and land settlement. However, based on
the economic analysis of typical settler households, and assuming that the remaining
irrigation works and land settlement would be completed over the next three years at the
estimated cost as planned, the ERR has been estimated at 12.7 percent compared to 12.2
percent estimated at appraisal. The smaller net increase in ERR value for Yindaruqin
Subcomponent was due to increased capital construction cost for the main irrigation works.
The overall ERR for the project as a whole is estimated at 15.1 percent compared to 13
percent at appraisal.
5.    Physical Results.  In terms of physical targets, the Yindaruqin Irrigation
Subcomponent has, to date, achieved fully its planned targets for the feeder channel and the
main canal system, and only partially for the branch canals, on-farm works and land
settlement by farmers, despite extension of the project closing date by two years. At credit
closing, 17 out of the 45 planned branch canals have yet to be constructed, 32,870 ha of
on-farm works to be completed, and about 48,935 persons to be settled on the land being
reclaimed. These remaining works are planned to be completed by the end of 1999 with
local funding. On the other hand, the Guanchuan River Basin Subcomponent was virtually
completed by the end of 1992, achieving fully its targets, and in many cases exceeding
those originally planned. The land improvement through terracing, benching, afforestation,
pasture development and improvement achieved a total of about 85,600 ha, which exceeded
the original planned target of 76,000 ha.
6.    Agricultural Benefits. The investment in the two agricultural subcomponents has
brought about positive benefits in terms of increased agricultural yields and production. In
the Guanchuan River Basin Subcomponent, the area completed and yields achieved to date
have equaled or exceeded the appraisal estimate for full development year (at 2003). As for
the Yindaruqin Subcomponent, although the area irrigated and settled to date is only about
40 percent of planned, the unit yields achieved so far for various crops on the newly
irrigated land have exceeded substantially the preproject unit yields and show a promising
increasing trend toward achieving the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)-projected yields at full
development year. Table 6 shows the area cultivated and yields achieved for Guanchuan
River Basin and Yindaruqin.
7.    Poverty Reduction. The project has effectively reduced the incidence of poverty
for 39,000 households in Guanchuan River Basin and 8,876 new settler households (final
target is 57,000 households including the existing 42,000 households) in the Yindaruqin
Irrigation Area. The financial analyses, based on survey data from 341 farm households



drawn from predetermined areas selected for monitoring from 1986 to 1995, show
substantial increases in net income per capita as follows:
Net Income per Capita (Yuan)
Preproject     Postproject     % Increase
Yindaruqin
(a) Low-income Group              110             260            136
(b) Medium-income Group           310             480             55
(c) High-income Group             530             850             61
Guanchuan Basin                   223             762            242
The higher increase in net incomes for Guanchuan Basin is attributed to the earlier
comprehensive completion of the project works (in 1992) and increasing benefits accruing
subsequently.
8.    Other Socioeconomic Benefits.  The project also generated the following
socioeconomic benefits for the project area:
(a)   Off-Farm Employment. During implementation the project generated
temporary off-farm jobs for about 93,700 persons and 54,000 persons in the
Guanchuan River Basin Subcomponent and the Yindaruqin Subcomponent,
respectively. It was estimated that some 60 and 36.5 percent of these off-
farm workers were women, respectively. These off-farm jobs provided the
much needed cash earning, especially during the idle winter period between
farming seasons.
(b)   Safe Drinking Water. The project provided safe drinking water to the local
population and their livestock.   In the Guanchuan River Basin
Subcomponent, the completed 8,912 water cisterns and 1,414 ponds and
wells provided clean water to 33,420 households and 42,420 heads of
livestock (sheep-based unit).  In the Yindaruqin Subcomponent, the
diversion of comparatively clean water from the Datong River through the
irrigation system to the project area provided an assured source of better-
quality water for about 280,000 people and 300,000 heads of livestock.
Hitherto, they have had to rely on the scarce rainfall and water brought in by
government trucks. The provision of safe drinking water has contributed to
substantial reduction of incidence of waterborne diseases, and saving of time
and drudgery of women in fetching water.
(c)   Rural Electricity. In the Guanchuan River Basin Subcomponent, the rural
electrification (462 km of 10 kV lines) completed provided rural electricity
supply to about 34,700 households in 135 villages, 2 townships, and 693



- 4 -
newly developed rural enterprises. Similarly, the Yindaruqin Subcomponent
benefited some 1,200 farm households (about 6,000 people) in 32 remote
villages scattered along the Feeder Channel with its power lines constructed
for construction purposes.
(d)   Road Access. New and improved rural and farm roads completed in the
Guanchuan River Basin Subcomponent (226 km) and the Yindaruqin
Subcomponent (80 km constructed with another 102 km to be completed)
have provided better access into and from the project area. This has resulted
in reduced transportation cost and time, improved access to markets for
remote villages, and stimulated other economic development activities in the
project area.
(e)   Environmental Enhancements. The soil and water conservation measures,
coupled with land benching and terracing, gully plugs, tree and shrubs
planting, carried out in the Guanchuan River Basin project area have
increased the soil moisture retention capacity and vegetative cover, and
reduced the surface water runoff and soil erosion. This has checked
environmental degradation and improved the ecosystem for sustainable
upland agricultural production. In Yindaruqin, when the forest belts and
on-farm windbreaks are completed in full, the project area's ecosystem will
be considerably enhanced through the increasing fauna and flora established.
9.    Training and Technical Assistance. Staff training was satisfactorily carried out.
Under the Yindaruqin Subcomponent, 9 overseas and 20 local study tours were conducted.
Over 30 training sessions for staff were also conducted, involving a total of over 5,015
person-sessions.   Training topics included tunnel construction, irrigation research
techniques, salinity control and management, operation and maintenance, monitoring, and
contract administration. Under the Guanchuan Subcomponent, two overseas study tours
were organized to study soil and water conservation practices in Australia and Japan.
Fourteen staff training sessions were also carried out, covering 2,165 staff-sessions, on
technical and management skill upgrading. The Yindaruqin Project Management Office
(PMO) was also assisted in the supervision of major work construction by foreign and local
consultants whose performance was satisfactory, but could have been more effective had
the Yindaruqin PMO paid more attention to the consultants' findings and recommendations
on construction work quality control. During the final stage of project preparation, the
Bank also obtained UNDP funds to engage a foreign consulting firm to assist Gansu in
preparing the international competitive bidding (ICB) bid documents for the feeder channel.
10.   Procurement. Gansu Province appointed the International Tendering Company of
China National Technical Import and Export Corporation (ITC/CNTIC) to carry out the
ICB procurement for the project, while the national competitive bidding (NCB)
procurement for works and goods was mostly carried out departmentally by the Yindaruqin
and the Guanchuan PMOs and the Gansu Provincial Project Implementation Office. For
the Yindaruqin Subcomponent, three ICB and 13 NCB contracts with total value of about



- 5 -
$200 million were awarded for civil works, and 16 contracts for goods with a total value of
about $11.2 million. Procurement for the Guanchuan Subcomponent was limited to two
limited ICBs for 9,900 tons of DAP fertilizer with total value of about $2.56 million.
Procurement was carried out satisfactorily in accordance with the Bank guidelines and no
significant problems were encountered with respect to delivery and quality. The only
problem encountered was the bureaucratic delay in the internal process of obtaining
approval of bid documents and bid evaluation from an administrative unit under the State
Council.
11.   Disbursement. Due to the slow initial startup of the project, changes in engineering
designs, increased work quantities, and extended implementation period of the Yindaruqin
Subcomponent, the overall disbursement progress for the agricultural component was
generally below the original planned disbursement schedule throughout the implementation
period.  The Credit proceeds were reallocated twice, including an increase in the
disbursement percentage for works from 42 to 59 percent. Except for a few instances of
charging expenditures to wrong categories, and overdisbursement in some categories, the
World Bank disbursement guidelines and procedures were generally adhered to. The last
credit disbursement was made on October 31, 1996.
C. PROJECT IMPACT
Yindaruqin Subcomponent
12.   Apart from reducing poverty and raising income levels of poor settler farmers, the
component created the following significant impacts:
(a)   By being involved in the project, a substantial number of project staff were
trained in project preparation, implementation and management of major
development projects. This institution building has been reflected in the
efficient preparation and implementation of the Gansu Hexi Corridor Project
(Ln. 4028/Cr. 2870-CHA), which will involve improvement and
development of about 100,000 ha and settlement of 200,000 poor farrm
people.
(b)   The tunneling works completed on the 90-km Feeder Channel were a major
engineering feat and successfully challenged the earlier misconceptions of
many on their technical feasibility. Various technical entities in the country
have visited the project to learn tunneling techniques and equipment used,
and ICB contract administration and management. In part, the project has
transferred technology on modem tunneling techniques and equipment
(TBM) to China.
(c)   During construction of various project works, the project created substantial
employment opportunities for local labor, and stimulated local supply of
goods and services. This in turn provided impetus for economic growth of
Yongdeng Township, the Yongdeng county center.



- 6 -
(d)   The afforestation established along the canals and drains, upon full
development, would improve the ecoenvironments of the project area
through increasing flora and fauna.
(e)    The diversion of comparatively clean water from the Datong River through
the irrigation system to the project area provided a better-quality source of
water for over 280,000 people and about 300,000 head of livestock, thereby
improving their basic health. Hitherto, the people and animals had to rely on
scarce rainwater and poor-quality groundwater for consumption. During
droughts, water had to be brought in by government water trucks. In
addition, the availability of assured and better quality of water will provide
impetus for future expansion and development of urban and industrial
centers in the vicinity of Lanzhou Airport.
(f)    The construction of access roads and power lines to facilitate construction
and subsequent operation of the feeder channel located in a mountainous
region provided access and electricity supply to remote villages located
along the Feeder Channel.
Guanchuan Subcomponent
13.   The soil and water conservation measures completed under the project improved the
environment. Based on six-year results of monitoring of sampled watersheds, the average
annual runoff has been reduced by 33 percent and silt load by 39 percent. These proved the
positive results of land terracing and benching, and afforestation in reducing soil erosion
and increasing the soil moisture retention capacity. The increased agricultural production
virtually eliminated the annual food deficit in the project area, and, to a large extent,
checked further degradation of environments by preventing farmers from cultivating large
areas with low unit yield and cutting of vegetative cover for fuel as practiced in the past.
The access roads, safe water and rural electricity provided also improved significantly the
quality of life in the project area.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
14.   Implementation Schedule. The project was approved in May 1987 and scheduled
to be closed in June 1994 (the closing date was subsequently extended twice, one year each,
to June 30, 1996). The original implementation schedule was overly optimistic and had not
adequately considered the implementation capacity and resources of Gansu Province in
undertaking projects of this size and complexity for the first time with Bank financing.
15.   Slow Startup. The project experienced a rather slow startup with the Loan and
Credit Agreements signed in September 1987, some four months after Board approval. The
Loan and Credit only became effective in January 1988. Moreover, during 1987 the Gansu
Provincial Government did not include budgetary provision for the project for
implementation in 1988 and this resulted in late allocation of funds to start the project in
1988. In all, some 9 to 12 months were lost in the project startup.



16.   Change of Project Management. Initially, the Gansu Provincial Bureau of Water
Resources was responsible for project implementation and management of the Yindaruqin
subcomponent. In July 1989, the Gansu Provincial Government established the Yindaruqin
Command, headed by a Vice Secretary-General, to take over project implementation and
management. The senior leadership was changed and strengthened to provide better
coordination and integration with other provincial bureaus. The new leadership under the
Yindaruqin Cominand proved to be effective in accelerating project implementation, which
had a slow initial startup.
17.   Inflation and Cost Overrun. The high inflation in the country since 1989, coupled
with depreciation of the local currency (Yuan) against the US dollar, led to substantial price
increases in construction materials and labor wages. This resulted in higher contract prices,
especially those contracts awarded after 1990. Together with the change in designs and
increased work quantities, the inflation contributed to substantial cost overrun of the feeder
channel (about 250 percent) and the two main canals (200 percent). The problem of cost
overrun was further exacerbated by the shortage of counterpart funds.
18.   Lack of Counterpart Funds. Gansu is a poor province with annual budget
deficits. The lack of adequate and timely allocation of counterpart funds affected the
implementation progress frequently, especially during the initial years. This resulted in
slower progress payments made to contractors, and this in turn affected progress of contract
works. Some of the scheduled project works and activities had to be deferred to a later date,
and some work contracts were scheduled unduly long in order to ease contract payments.
19.   Poor Performance of Local Contractors. Domestic contractors were awarded one
ICB and several NCB contracts for the construction of the feeder channel and the two main
canals. Performance of some of these local contractors on the Feeder Channel was
generally not up to required standards and slow due to inadequate equipment and obsolete
construction methodology. This was further aggravated by the lack of supervision by
project management due to the lack of adequate and competent site supervisory staff and
too many work contracts going on at the same time. Remedial measures recommended by
the various Bank supervision missions were instituted and effective in bringing
improvements, but progress was affected.
20.   Engineering Complexity and Difficult Site Conditions.  The 90-km feeder
channel presented unique engineering construction complexity in having 33 tunnels, two
inverted siphons, nine aqueducts, open and covered canals through mountainous terrain
with varying geological conditions. The complexity and site conditions were underrated in
drawing up the three ICB and three NCB contracts whose periods for completion were too
optimistic. Consequently, some of the contracts could only be completed on extended time.
Inadequate detailed engineering investigation and design, especially on the tunnels, also
contributed to delay in completion as a result of design changes made during construction
and additional work quantities and cost.



21.   Inadequate Planning and Design of Land Settlement. The land settlement of the
newly irrigated land with 15,000 poor families was not adequately prepared during the
project preparation. There was no specific settlement plan prepared for the project appraisal
as this activity was to be funded locally and based on the ongoing process of settling poor
households under the provincial poverty reduction program being implemented by the Two
Xi Commission. A settlement plan was finally prepared and approved by the Gansu
Provincial Govemment after some urging by Bank supervision missions and delay in
reaching agreement in allocating quotas of settlers between the provincial, city and county
governments. Moreover, land settlement is a time-consuming process requiring close
coordination of various government agencies in implementation. The belated start of land
settlement has resulted in only about 31,070 people settled to date, with the remaining
48,930 people to be settled from 1997 to 1999. However, a firm commitment has been
given by Gansu Provincial Government to complete the land settlement program (see
Annex B).
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22.   Gansu Government at all levels has a strong commitment to ensure sustainability of
the project, which represents the key economic development project to increase foodgrain
production and reduce incidence of poverty in the province. The project is also part of
Gansu's long-term poverty-reduction plan, which is in line with the State's strategy and
priority to develop the resource-poor regions in northwest China. Thus, continued support
from the Government to sustain the project seems assured.
23.   The Yindaruqin Irrigation Subcomponent would be sustainable when all the
remaining works and land settlement are fully completed by the end of 1999. Judging by
the initial results of the area irrigated in the 1994 and 1995 seasons, the increases in yield
and production were very positive compared to nonirrigated areas outside the project area.
During 1995, Gansu experienced the worst drought in 60 years and the areas irrigated under
the Yindaruqin Irrigation Area were not affected but achieved higher yields than the
previous year.
24.   An O&M plan has been prepared for the whole irrigation area, including the
collection of water charges that would be progressively increased to meet the full annual
O&M costs plus a certain amount of depreciation costs for capital works and installations.
The existing establishment responsible for O&M has also been restructured and expanded
to cope with the increased O&M workload. If fully implemented, these steps would ensure
that the irrigation facilities would be operated and maintained on a sustainable basis.
25.   The settlement of the irrigated land by poor farmers would also be sustainable due
to the large number of absolute poor households (4.2 million people) in the province and
their strong desire and determination to improve their economic well-being through
settlement on good agricultural land. The average 2.5 mu per capita of irrigated land
provided to the poor farm families would not only ensure their basic food needs but also
provide opportunities to raise their income levels through surplus agricultural production.



-9-
The current demand for settlement in the Yindaruqin irrigation area has exceeded the supply
capacity.
26.   With extensive and long-term irrigation, there is potential risk of a rise of the water
table level, leading to secondary salinization of soils, which can reduce crop yields. Close
monitoring of the water table level and mineralization of groundwater will be required and
appropriate drainage measures adopted to control the rise of water table levels in the
irrigated areas. This provision has been included in the future operation plan (para. 35).
27.   The Guanchuan River Basin Subcomponent was completed in 1992 and has been in
operation for the last four years. Monitoring of the various performance parameters shows
that the benefits have been consistently sustained except for the year 1995, which was
significantly affected by the worst drought in 60 years. Since this subcomponent only
improved the rainfed agricultural practices, the risk of drought affecting yield and
production still exists.  This risk would need to be minimized through continued
strengthening of upland management practices and agricultural support services.
F. IDA PERFORMANCE
28.   IDA's overall performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal was
satisfactory, but some aspects could have been more thorough. The implementation
schedule and the procurement of major civil works were rather too optimistic, and no
detailed land settlement plan was prepared.  The project was selected from options
identified in a review of agricultural development issues and potentials in Gansu province,
as part of the Gansu Provincial Study (Report No. 6064-CHA-Growth and Development
in Gansu, China). It also conformed to Gansu's preference to develop the project area,
which had failed on three previous attempts by Gansu, to provide an impetus of economic
growth closer to Lanzhou, the provincial capital.
29.   In all, IDA carried out 11 supervision missions of the project, one to two missions a
year since 1989. These missions reviewed implementation progress, helped to resolve
implementation issues and problems, and provided technical advice, especially on the
construction of the complex feeder channel. The Yindaruqin and Guanchuan PMOs found
the missions to be useful and generally followed up on the missions' recommendations.
The missions' main contributions were in: (a) technical recommendations on tunneling
work on the Feeder Channel with respect to methods of construction, safety and quality of
construction, especially on tunnel lining and crown supports; (b) ICB contract
administration and management, and enforcement of technical specifications to ensure work
quality; (c) preparation of O&M manuals for the Feeder channel and the two main canals;
and (d) review and preparation of a land settlement plan for poor farmers, covering the
selection process, work programs and cost estimates. A Mid-Term Review was also
conducted to consider reallocation of Credit proceeds and assess the time frame to complete
the project.



- 11 -
environments. Sample surveys show that they are achieving increasing incomes over the
years.
I. FUTURE OPERATION
Yindaruqin Subcomponent
35.   The immediate task is to complete the remaining works over the next three years,
consisting of 17 branch canals, on-farm works covering 32,870 ha and settlement of about
48,930 people on the newly developed irrigated land.  Barring any unforeseen
circumstances, these works should be completed as scheduled.
36.   The next important task is to organize and strengthen O&M of the completed
irrigation facilities. This would require: (a) completion of the O&M manual for the two
main canals to complement the manual already compiled for the feeder channel;
(b) recruiting and posting of O&M staff to the initial 800 posts approved by the Gansu
Provincial Government; (c) collection of irrigation water charges to meet at least the annual
full O&M costs; (d) distribution and use of O&M machinery and equipment already
procured; and (e) establishment of a monitoring system to monitor the water table levels
and soil salinity in the irrigated area so as to assess the extent of secondary soil salinization.
The handing and taking over of completed irrigation facilities should be expedited as O&M
has been somewhat lacking during this transitional period.
37.   Equally important is the need to provide agricultural support services to the new
settler farmers so that optimum agricultural productivity would be achieved as planned.
The services would include training and extension services to farmers, provision of credit
for purchase of inputs, supply of quality seeds and other planting materials. Diversification
of crops in the near future would also be necessary to enhance income levels of farmers
presently growing mainly food crops. Such support services could be provided by the
departments concerned through their annual budgetary provision and work plans.
38.   A system should be established to monitor and assess the performance of the project
and track the socioeconomic well-being of existing and new settler farmers in the project
area. The data and information collected would be useful for conducting a performance
audit of the project in the future.
39.   The promotion of "high-yield, high-quality and high-value" crops through
experiments and pilot projects is laudable and encouraging. However, this should not take
priority over efforts to first stabilize new settler farmers on the new land. Similarly, the
proposed future study of water-saving irrigation techniques could be looked into so that the
present irrigation area could be further expanded under the command of the East Main
Canal No. 2.
40.   There is potential for mini-hydropower development on the Feeder Channel and the
two main canals. However, additional capital investment would be required. Revenue from



- 10-
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
30.   This was the first Bank Group-financed project undertaken by Gansu Province,
which had no prior experience of implementing projects according to Bank/IDA procedures
and requirements. The overall perfornance during implementation of the Yindaruqin
Subcomponent is rated as fairly satisfactory, taking into consideration the various difficult
engineering problems and funding constraints encountered. For the Guanchuan River Basin
Subcomponent, the performance was highly satisfactory and generally free of problems.
31.   The project organization for implementation and management was sound and
effective. The top provincial Project Leading Group (PLG), headed by the Governor, was
effective in providing the leadership and policy guidance for project implementation. The
Gansu World Bank Projects Implementation Office (GPIO), an executive arm of the PLG,
controlled and managed the project funds efficiently, including the applications for
disbursement of the World Bank loan and credit proceeds. The provincial leadership and
project staff have all made great effort in ensuring the smooth project implementation
despite various constraints.
32.   Gansu's performance in the Guanchuan River Basin Subcomponent was even
better. The project was implemented successfully and completed according to schedule in
1992 without serious problems. The Guanchuan PMO was efficient and effective. This
was due partly to the commitment of the project staff in project execution and partly to the
keen enthusiasm and participation of the project beneficiaries in project implementation.
Moreover, the project work and activities on upland management and rainfed agriculture
improvements had been successfully carried out in the past in the area, and therefore
presented very few problems in implementation. The Guanchuan PMO was also innovative
in establishing early a monitoring and evaluation system to track the performance of the
project and the economic well-being of sampled beneficiaries.
33.   The Borrower complied promptly and completely with the few covenants prescribed
in the legal agreements. Half-yearly progress reports, audited project accounts together
with the auditor's reports were also regularly produced and received generally on time.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
34.   Under various constraints, Gansu Province made serious efforts to implement the
project. The project's overall outcome is considered as satisfactory. The Guanchuan Basin
Subcomponent was successfully implemented, achieving its primary objectives and
operating on a sustainable basis. Due to its sheer physical size and compounded by
engineering complexity and lack of timely adequate counterpart funds, the Yindaruqin
Subcomponent, although only partially completed, is showing positive results in the area
developed and irrigated to date. The crop yield and production from the irrigated area is
dramatic compared to preproject conditions. The irrigation system performed well in the
1995 drought, which was the worst ever experienced in the last 60 years. The poor farm
households settled on the newly irrigated land have also responded well in their new



- 12 -
the sale of electricity to the rural areas could be used to subsidize the O&M cost of the
irrigation facilities.
Guanchuan Subcomponent
41.   To sustain the project in its future operation, the Guanchuan PMO has proposed the
following measures:
(a)    Continuation of the Guanchuan PMO to operate and maintain the project
works, as well as to plan and execute future expansion works.
(b)    Using the provincial water and soil conservation funds to continue land
improvement for rainfed agricultural production through terracing of
10,000 ha of cropland, tree planting of 10,000 ha and pasture improvement
of 19,000 ha from 1996 to 2002.
(c)    Continuation of monitoring and evaluation of soil and water effects on
sampled areas established under the project; and socioeconomic monitoring
and assessment of sampled project beneficiaries in collaboration with the
Dingxi Statistics Department.
(d)    Expand and strengthen training of farners on new and scientific production
technology through integrated efforts by county governments so as to
achieve optimum benefits of project facilities provided.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
42.   The key lessons learned from the project are summarized below:
(a)   In retrospect, the project preparation should have been more thorough by
both the Borrower and the Bank/IDA with respect to more detailed
engineering investigation and design on the tunnels, contract packaging for
major civil works, and the overall implementation schedule, taking into
consideration the Borrower's resources and implementation capacity.
(b)    The evaluation and award of ICB and NCB contracts for the construction of
the Feeder Channel should have been more stringent in assessing the
contractor's capability and capacity, especially the local contractors whose
equipment was inefficient. Low bid prices' do not necessary mean that the
bidders can carry out the contract on time and within the bid price awarded.
During the economic recession years of 1989-90. bid prices received from local contractors for civil works on
the Feeder Channel were unduly low and seemed to have been deliberately reduced below cost in order to win
bids.



- 13 -
Contractors with either joint-venture or consortium arrangements were less
efficient than smaller sole contractors due to frequent internal disputes and
work stoppages as experienced in the construction of the Yindaruqin
Subcomponent.
(c)   The adequate and timely allocation of counterpart funds is a prerequisite to
smooth implementation of a project according to schedule; the lack of which
would inevitably lead to implementation delay and increase in project cost.
(d)   The settlement of newly developed irrigated land with poor farmers is a
time-consuming process and needs careful planning and adequate logistic
support in implementation. A time-bound land settlement plan should have
been prepared and assessed during appraisal for the Yindaruqin
Subcomponent with its implementation covenanted in the Development
Credit Agreement. This would have avoided the necessity to prepare an ad
hoc plan, which was then subject to undue delay in reviewing and reaching
agreement by the provincial, city and county governments on the allocation
of quota of settlers among the administrative jurisdictions.
(e)   Local consultants with suitable qualification and experience could be
effectively used, as demonstrated by the 13 local consultants engaged by
Yindaruqin PMO with substantial saving in consultancy fees; moreover,
these local consultants have a good understanding of the local conditions
and engineering practices.
(f)   Large-scale greenfield irrigation development, to serve in tum as the basis
for large-scale irrigation and land settlement by poor population, invariably
takes longer than standard Bank project periods. This is true, independent of
the optimism and enthusiasm of the sponsoring jurisdictions and agencies.
This lesson was applied in the planning of the FY96 Gansu Hexi Corridor
Project (Ln. 4028/Cr. 2870-CHA).



- 14 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Yindarugin                                        Guanchuan
Not                                                Not
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial   Partial    Negligible    Applicable  Substantial   Partial    Negligible   Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                                              X                                                  X
Sector Policies                                                     X                                                  X
Financial Objectives             X                                                  X
Institutional Development                   X                                                  X
Physical Objectives                         X                                       X
Poverty Reduction                X                                                  X
Gender Issues                               X                                                  X
Other Social Objectives                     X                                                  X
Environmental Objectives                    X                                                  X
Public Sector Management                                            X                                                  X
Private Sector Development                                          X                                                  X
B. Project Sustainability      Likely    Unlikely    Uncertain                    Likely    Unlikely    Uncertain
x                                                  x
C. Bank Performance           Highly   Satisfactory   Deficient                   Highly   Satisfactory   Deficient
Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
Identification                   X                                                  X
Preparation Assistance                      X                                                  X
Appraisal                                               X                                      X
Supervision                                 X                                                  X
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                 X                                                  X
Implementation                                         X                            X
Covenant Compliance                         X                                                  X
E. Assessment Outcome                       X                                       X
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS (AGRICULTURE COMPONENT)
Loan/Credit No.                                                                                    Year of
And Title                             Purpose                                                 Approval          Status
Preceding Operations:
1. North China Plain Agriculture    Irrigation Development & Land Improvement                       FY82         Completed
(Cr. 1261-CHA)
2. Pi-Shi-Hang Chaohu Area Dev.  Irrigation & Area Development                                      FY85         Completed
(Cr. 1606/Ln. 2579-CHA)
Following Operations:
3. Northern Irrigation                    Irrigation Development & Improvement, &                   FY88           Closing
(Cr. 1885-CHA)                        Settlement                                                                 12/97
4. Irrigated Agri. Intensification        Irrigation Development &  Improvement                      FY91          Closing
(Ln. 3337/Cr. 2256-CHA)                                                                                         06/97
5. Yangtze Basin Water Resources  Irrigation & Area Development                                     FY95           Closing
(Cr. 2710/Ln 2874-CHA)                                                                                         12/2001
6. Gansu Hexi Corridor                    Irrigation & Land Development, &  Settlement              FY96           Closing
(Ln. 4028-Cr. 2870-CHA)                                                                                        12/2006



- 15 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                                                 Date planned               Date actual/estimated
Identification                                                              04/85                            04/85
Preparation/Preappraisal                                                      n.a.                            n.a.
Appraisal                                                                   03/86                            03/86
Negotiations                                                                03/87                         03/23/87
Board presentation                                                          04/87                         05/12/87
Signing                                                                     06/87                         09/14/87
Effectiveness                                                               08/87                         01/19/88
Project completion                                                        12/31/93                       12/31/95 /a
Loan/credit closing                                                       06/30/94                       06/30/96 /b
La Full project completion is expected 12/99.
/b Extended twice of one-year extension each.
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($'000)
FY88      FY89       FY90      FY91        FY92        FY93         FY94       FY95 /a    FY 96 L4
Appraisal estimate       2,000.0  39,000.0  74,000.0  95,000.0    111,000.0   125,000.0   130,000.0   130,000.0  130,000.0
Actual                   4,433.0  21,844.7  42,489.0  53,315.6        71,001.9    92,800.3   119,246.7   128,413.4  143,091.6/b
Actualas%ofestimate        221.7       56.0       57.4      49.7          64.0        68.4        86.1         98.8      110.1
Date of final disbursement                                                                                            10/31/96
La Closing date extended.
/b Higher cumulative disbursement in US dollar terms than estimated at appraisal was due to net cumulative depreciation of the US dollar
against the SDR.



- 16 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Item/Description                Unit       SAR    Completed at  Balance to  Completed as
estimate  proj. closing    complete   % of SAR est.
YINDARUQIN SUBCOMPONENT
1. CIVIL WORKS
(1) Feeder Channel:
Tunnels                          km                49.5         59.4            0         120.0
Channel                         km                 13.1          9.5            0          72.5
Aqueducts                       km                  1.4         0.93            0          66.4
Siphons                         no.                  2             2            0         100.0
Drainage channels               no.                 10             8            0          80.0
Other structures                no.                n.a.           52            0
(2) Irrigation & Drainage:
Main canals                     km                 113           104            0          92.0
Submain canals                   km                  0             0          47.6
Branch canals                   km                 700           451        401.5          64.4
Tunnels                         no.                 39            39           39         100.0
Aqueducts                        no.                19            20            13        105.3
Pumping stations                no.                  6             0            6           0.0
(3) Other facilities:
Main drainage channels           km                100             0          100           0.0
County roads                     km                 50            80          102         160.0
(4) On-farm Works:
Lateral canals                  km                1,100          727          989          66.1
Sublateral canals               km                1,000          856         1,196         85.6
Branch drains                    km                900           340          560          37.8
Field channels and drains        km              12,000        4,811         6,025         40.1
Ancillary structures             no.
Land reclamation and leveling    ha             57,000        24,430       32,870          42.9
(5) Construction machinery & equipment: sum (Y mln)       26        86.38             0         332.2
(6) Settlement of farmers             person          80,000       31,066        48,934          38.8
11. GOODS
(1) Urea fertilizer                  ton                   0        7,400             0
GUANCHUAN BASIN SUBCOMPONENT
I. CIVIL WORKS
(1) Terracing                         ha              13,380       15,043            0           112
(2) Benching                          ha               1,667        1,683            0           101
(3) Tree and shrub planting           ha             21,300        23,318            0           109
(4) Nursery                           ha                233           242            0           104
(5) Pasture:                          ha
Establishment                   ha              20,387        24,099            0           118
Improvement                      ha             19,687        21,459            0           109
(6) Water cisterns                    no.              8,910        8,912            0           100
(7) Gully plugs La                    no.            136,500      145,425            0           107
(8) Drainage outfalls protection      no.             12,410       12,709            0           102
(9) Retention ponds                   no.              1,412        1,414            0           100
(10) Access roads                      km                205           226             0          110
(11) Rural power lines                 km                400         462.2            0           116
II. GOODS
(1) Fertilizer (DAP)                  ton                n.a.       9,900             0
La In the SAR the quantity estimated was expressed in total length of 2,400 km instead of in numbers.



- 17-
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
A. Crops
SAR Estimated A Full Dev.      Actual for Year 1995
Item Description     Area         Yield            Area        Yield
(ha)      (tons/ha)          (ha)      (tons/ha)
Yindaruqin
Wheat                   21,800        4.5           15,800         4.0
Grain legumes            3,400        3.0            1,700         3.5
Oilseeds                 5,700        2.3            1,000         1.7
Summer cereals           2,300        5.5            1,350         4.0
Melons                   5,700       10.5 (1.1)       150         27.0
Vegtables                14,800      11.0            1,800        26.0
Fodder                  14,300        3.0             640          7.8
Orchard (fruit, roses,)  4,900       10.5 (1.8)       150 (100)    8.0 (2.5)
Windbreaks              10,300
Total           83,200                     22,590
Guanchuan River Basin
Wheat                   25,600        2.4          23,433          1.94
Grain legumes            8,900        1.7           11,579         1.10
Oilseeds                23,700        1.5            7,038         0.95
Potatoes                  1,800      14.0           6,675         10.79
Summer cereals           1,800        5.5           9,658          1.10
Fodder                   4,800        3.7           4,232          3.75
Grassland               56,400                     60,420
Shrubs and trees        44,000                     45,170
Total          167,000                     168,205



- 18-
TABLE 6: (CONT'D)
B. Animals
SAR estimated @ full dev.     Actual for year 1995
Item/Description                 Annual                       Annual
Number    production        Number    production
(head)      (tons)          (head)       (tons)
Yindaruqin
Sheep                    57,000                       41,900
Wool                                 230.0                       293.3
Meat                               1,140.0                       256.2
Pig                      57,000                       62,100
Meat                               2,570.0                      5,278.5
Cattle La                17,000                        3,600
Meat                               5,100.0                       288.0
Milk                              11,200.0                      3,420.0
Draft animals Lb       11,500                       33,400
Guanchuan River Basin
Sheep                   120,000k                      56,900
Wool                                 480.0                       312.3
Meat                               2,400.0                        850.4
Pig                      18,000k                      82,900
Meat                                 820.0                      6,632.0
Draft animals lk          2,000&                      10,000
Za Mainly for draft purposes.
lk Donkeys, mules, horses.
L The number was estimated too high in the SAR.



- 19-
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
No studies were included in the Project Component at appraisal. However, during
project implementation, Bank supervision missions recommended groundwater and soil
salinity monitoring of a pilot irrigated area to assess the long-term impact of irrigation on
groundwater level and soil salinity changes. The pilot area study is being continued.
Gansu also obtained a former township forestry station in the project area and contracted
with Gansu Provincial Academy of Agricultural Sciences to conduct a three-year
experiment and demonstration of agricultural practices in "high-yield, high-quality, and
high-value" crop production. So far, the results have been promising and the experiments
are being continued. The production techniques are being extended to project farmers
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS IN $ MILLION
SAR Estimate                 Revised Estimate              Actual at Closing        Balance
Item/Description                Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total  to compl.
1. YINDARUQIN IRRIGATION
Feeder channel                            24.70      57.60     82.30     56.88     70.19    127.07      55.05     70.19    125.24       1.83
Irrigation & drainage                     40.90     33.50      74.40     80.36     46.06    126.42      28.56     46.06     74.62      51.80
On-farm works                             10.70       1.20     11.90      8.61      2.90      11.51      1.70      2.90      4.60       6.91
Engineering supervision                     1.40      0.00      1.40     10.92      3.99      14.91      1.57      3.99       5.56      9.35
Construction mach. & equip.                 0.70      6.30      7.00      0.00     10.87      10.87      0.00     10.87      10.87      0.00
Land Settlement                            4.30       0.00      4.30      2.86      0.00       2.86      0.45      0.00       0.45      2.41
Subtotal                      82.70      98.60    181.30    159.63    134.01    293.64      87.33    134.01    221.34      72.30
II. GUANCHUAN BASIN
Landrehabilitation/development              8.50      1.20      9.70     10.00      3.00      13.00     10.00      3.00      13.00      0.00
Pasture establishment                       2.10      0.50      2.60      1.30      0.37       1.67      1.30      0.37       1.67      0.00
Roads and electricity                       3.50      3.40      6.90      3.30       1.20      4.50      3.30      1.20       4.50      0.00
Fertilizer                                 0.20       1.30      1.50      0.00      2.60       2.60      0.00      2.60      2.60       0.00
Supervision and management                 0.00       0.00      0.00      0.60      0.00       0.60      0.60      0.00      0.60       0.00
Subtotal                       14.30      6.40     20.70     15.20      7.17     22.37      15.20      7.17     22.37       0.00
111. TRAINING & CONSULTING                        1.00      1.20      2.20      0.10      2.16       2.26      0.10      2.16       2.26      0.00
Base Cost                      98.00    106.20   204.20    174.93    143.34   318.27    102.63    143.34   245.97           72.30
Physical contingency                             13.60     14.70     28.30                                                                    0.00
Price contingency                                 8.40      9.10     17.50                                                                    0.00
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     120.00    130.00   250.00    174.93    143.34   318.27    102.63    143.34   245.97          72.30



- 20 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT COSTS IN Y MILLION
SAR Estimate               Revised Estimate            Actual at Closing      Balance
ItemlDescription          Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total  to compl.
1. YINDARUQIN IRRIGATION
Feederchannel                   91.40   213.20   304.60   282.97   350.19   633.16   267.99    350.19   618.18        14.98
Irription & drainage           151.50    123.90   275.40   624.50   260.75    885.25    199.76    260.75   460.51    424.74
On-farm works                   39.60      4.40    44.00    67.43     16.77     84.20    10.79     16.77    27.56     56.64
Engineering supervision          5.30      0.00     5.30    85.62     15.80    101.42     8.85     15.86    24.71     76.77
Construction mach. & equip.      2.60    23.40    26.00       0.00    88.38     88.38     0.00     88.38    88.38      0.00
Land Settlement                 16.00      0.00    16.00    23.37      0.00     23.37     3.63      0.00     3.63     19.74
Subtotal               306.40   364.90   671.30  1,083.89   731.89  1,815.78   491.02    731.95  1,222.97   592.87
IL GUANCHUAN BASIN
Landrehabilitationsdevelopment  32.30      3.60    35.90    44.80     11.30    56.10     44.80     11.30    56.10      0.00
Pasture establishment            7.70      1.90     9.60      5.90     1.20      7.10     5.90      1.20     7.10      0.00
Roads and electricity           12.80     12.80    25.60     14.30     4.70     19.00    14.30      4.70     19.00     0.00
Feitilizer                       0.00      5.50     5.50      0.00    11.40     11.40     0.00     11.40     11.40     0.00
Supervision and management       0.00      0.00     0.00      2.20     0.00      2.20     2.20      0.00     2.20      0.00
Subtotal                52.80    23.80    76.60    67.20    28.60    95.80    67.20        28.60    95.80      0.00
111. TRAINING & CONSULTING             3.60     4.40     8.00      0.20     9.08      9.28      0.20     9.08      9.28     0.00
Base Cost               362.80   393.10   755.90  1,151.29   769.57  1,920.86   558.42    769.63  1,328.05   592.87
Physical contingency                  50.00    54.20    104.20                                                              0.00
Price contingency                    108.20    117.30   225.50                                                              0.00
TOTAL PROJECT COST              521.00   564.60  1,085.60  1,151.29   769.57  1,920.86   558.42    769.63  1,328.05   592.87
TABLE 8c: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
SAR Estimate                             Actual on Closing               Balance
Item/Description             Local    Foreign        Total             Local       Foreign        Total      to compl.
I Yindaruqin Irrigation
World Bank                          0.00     123.00      123.00               0.00       136.05       136.05          0.00
Central                                         0.00       0.00              17.30          0.00        17.30        26.71
Province                                        0.00       0.00              58.43          0.00        58.43        42.54
Prefecture                                      0.00       0.00              11.60          0.00        11.60         3.05
County                                          0.00       0.00               0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
Others                                          0.00       0.00               0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
Subtotal                  101.50      123.00    224.50                87.33       136.05       223.38        72.30
II Guanchuan Basin
World Bank                         0.00         7.00       7.00               0.00         7.29          7.29         0.00
Central                                         0.00       0.00               0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Province                                        0.00       0.00              10.30         0.00         10.30         0.00
Prefecture                                      0.00       0.00                1.20        0.00          1.20         0.00
County                                          0.00       0.00                1.40        0.00          1.40         0.00
Others                                          0.00       0.00               2.40         0.00          2.40         0.00
Subtotal                   18.50        7.00       25.50              15.30         7.29        22.59          0.00
TOTAL PROJECT
World Bank la                      0.00      130.00    130.00                 0.00       143.34       143.34          0.00
Central                           80.00         0.00       0.00              17.30         0.00         17.30        26.71
Province                          40.00         0.00        0.00             68.73          0.00       68.73         42.54
Prefecture                          0.00        0.00       0.00              12.80          0.00        12.80         3.05
County                              0.00        0.00       0.00                1.40        0.00          1.40         0.00
Others                              0.00        0.00       0.00               2.40         0.00          2.40         0.00
Total                   120.00      130.00    250.00               102.63       143.34       245.97         72.30
La Due to the net aggregated appreciation of SDR against the US dollar over the project implementation period, the
actual total investment financed by the World Bank in US dollars has exceeded the US dollar equivalent of $130
million estimated in the SAR.



- 21 -
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)                          Appraisal Estimate (%)                  ICR Estimate (%)
Project as whole                                                   13.0                                  15.1
Yindaruqin component                                             12.2                                   12.7
Guanchuan component                                              18.6                                  27.6
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-              Original     Revised
Agree-                     nant    Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
ment        Section       type     Status      date         date         Description of covenant       Comments
Credit    2.02(b)            I         C                              Open and maintain a Special
Account in a bank acceptable to
IDA
Schedule 3,        5        C                               Use and selection of consultants
Section 11, i &                                             to be based on "Guidelines for the
2                                                           Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing
Agency, August 1981 "
Project   2.02               5         C                              Establish and maintain Gansu
Project Implementation
Committee and Project
Implementation Office
2.06               5        C                               Submission of training program
not later than June 30, 1988 for
Part A.5 (Agriculture)
3.01(b)            I        C                               Submission of audited project
accounts and auditor's report to
IDA not later than June 30
Note: The above covenants are only applicable to the Agriculture Component of the Project.
Covenant Class:                                                                     Status:
I= Accounts/audits                   8 = Indigenous people                       C    = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting        CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries  10 = Project implementation not               CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project       covered by categories 1-9
funds                          11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                   budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the             allocation
project or executing agency    12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants               regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement        13 = Other



- 22 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Not applicable
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS (ALL COMPONENTS)
Planned                      Revised                       Actual
Stage of Project Cycle                Weeks   $'000                Weeks   $'000                Weeks   $'000
Preparation to Appraisal                                                                                   297.5
Appraisal                                                                                                  408.2
Negotiations to Board Approval                                                                               62.4
Supervision                                                                                                561.1
Completion                                                                                                   24.0
Total                                                                                                 1,353.2
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating h
Imple-       Devel-
Stage of project cycle   Month/   Number of    Days         Specialized staff  mentation      opment       Type of
year      persons    in field  skills represented La  status     objectives   problems La
Identification through   04/85 to       4         n.a.         A,E,I,IE            -             -            -
Appraisal                 03/86
Appraisal through Board   03/86 to      4         n.a.         A,E,I,IE            -
Approval                  05/87
Supervision 1             09/87         4          7           A,E,I,IE            2             I        M,EGR,F
Supervision 2             06/88         4          14          A,E,E,IE            2             1         EGR,F
Supervision 3             09/89         2          9            IE,PR              2             1        M,EGR,F
Supervision 4             09/90         4          10         A,E,IE,TS            3             1        M,EGR,F
Supervision 5             09/91         2          7            IE,TS              2             1         EGR,F
Supervision 6             04/92         1          4              IE               2             1           F
Supervision 7             04/93         2          7            IE,TS              2             1         EGR,F
Supervision 8             04/94         2          7            IE,TS              2             1         EGR,F
Supervision 9             05/95         2          7            IE,TS              S            HS           F
Supervision 10            10195         1          4              IE               S            HS           F
Supervision I /ICR       05/96         2          7             IE,E              S            S            F
ICR                       09/96         2          5             IE,E              -             -            -
/a A=Agriculturist, E=Economist, I=Institution Specialist, IE=Irrigation Engineer, PR=Public Relations Specialist, TS-Tunnel
Specialist.
L 1=problem-free or minor problems, 2=moderate problems, 3=major problems; HS=highly satisfactory, S=satisfactory,
US=unsatisfactory.
La M=Management, EGR=Engineering, F=Counterpart funding.



- 23 -                    ANNEX A
ANNEX A: MISSION AIDE MEMOIRES
I. SUPERVISION NO. 11 AND ICR MISSION, MAY 11 TO 15, 1996
1.    A Bank mission comprising Mr. L. S. Tay and Ms. Li Qun visited Gansu Province
to review implementation progress of the Yindaruqin Irrigation Subcomponent and
initiate preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the agricultural
component. The mission held discussions with the Gansu WB Projects Implementation
Office (GPIO), Yindaruqin Engineering Construction and Management Bureau
(YECMB) and Guanchuan Project Management Office. The mission also visited the
project site on May 12 and 13. The mission thanks all project officials for the hospitality
and cooperation extended to the mission.  The following paragraphs record the
understandings reached for the project supervision and preparation of the ICR:
A. SUPERVISION
2.    Remaining Works. The remaining works to be done after the project closing
date (6/30/96) are: (a) 17 branch canals out of the total of 45 planned in addition to the 9
branch canals currently under construction; (b) buildings for Water Control and Dispatch
Center and O&M site offices on the Trunk Canal, East Main Canal No. 1 and No. 2; and
(c) on-farm development of 460,000 mu and settlement of 65,000 persons. The branch
canals and buildings are expected to be completed by the end of 1998, and the farm and
land settlement by the end of 1999. All the remaining works would be financed by local
funds at an estimated cost of about $85 million. GPIO is requested to furnish details of
the budget and work programs for the remaining work as soon as they have been
approved by the provincial government.
3.    Disbursement. The Credit would be fully disbursed at the project closing. The
current balance is about $120,000 on "training and consultants' services." The mission
agreed that all past local training expenditures should be compiled for disbursement with
the remaining credit available. Applications for disbursement of expenditures incurred
before the closing date still can be made within the four-month period after the project
closing.
4.    Operation and Maintenance. The mission expressed concern over the delay in
handing and taking over of the irrigation works and the follow-up operation and
maintenance. This is evident from the field visits to the irrigation area where some of the
branch canals need repair and maintenance, and proper irrigation water management. The
mission recommends the following actions to be taken:



-24-                      ANNEX A
(a)   Handing and taking over of completed irrigation works should be phased
in progressively after the works have been inspected and accepted for
operation;
(b)   The O&M staff establishment (about 850 posts approved initially) should
be filled and staff distributed to all levels of operation and maintenance
units; and
(c)   Adequate annual O&M funds should be secured early.
5.    O&M Manual for East Main Canal No. 1 and No. 2. The O&M plan prepared
for the East Main Canal No. 1 and No. 2 should be revised into a permanent manual for
reference and use by the operation and maintenance staff. The revised manual should be
similar to the manual prepared for the Trunk Canal. The revised draft should be sent to
the Bank for review before issuing to the O&M staff.
6.    O&M  Machinery and Equipment.  Almost all the O&M  machinery and
equipment procured recently have been delivered and stored at the Yongdeng store. The
mission recommends that, except for the heavy machinery to be centralized at Yongdeng
store, the smaller machinery and equipment should be distributed to the O&M units on
the canal system (Trunk Canal, East Main Canal No. 1 and No. 2). Full utilization of
these machinery and equipment should be planned, including their upkeep and repair. As
for the communication equipment delivered, the mission urged that the building to house
this sensitive equipment should be completed early for the contractor to install, test and
commission the complete communication system under the terms of the contract.
7.    Agricultural Support Services. The agricultural support services should be
intensified and expanded in the irrigation areas so as to achieve the targeted yields and
production. Although one or two experimental and demonstration areas have been in
operation, the results should be disseminated through the agricultural extension system.
The mission recommends that agriculture, animal husbandry and forestry departments be
consulted as to the provision of increased support for the project areas under their
respective annual budget plans and work programs.
8.    Performance and Impact Monitoring. With the completion of the irrigation
works, the project starts to derive benefits progressively. The project performance and
impact would need to be closely monitored so that they can be assessed and evaluated in
the near future and compared with the original planned targets. The mission recommends
that YECMB establishes a monitoring system immediately to monitor the performance
and impact. The system used by Guanchuan Project Management Office could be
adopted with changes to the monitoring indicators. This project may be subject to
performance audit review by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and
early collection of essential data on benefits and impact would facilitate such audit review
by the Bank's OED.



-25 -                     ANNEX A
B. ICR PREPARATION
9.    The mission reviewed the ICR draft reports prepared by YECMB and Guanchuan
PMO and agreed that the following items be completed before June 1, 1996. PMO will
complete, per ICR format, the necessary background data and analysis as discussed with
the mission. A brief summary of those tables and related information requirements
follows:
(a)   Completing the project cost and benefit analysis by finalizing:
(i)   the actual investment costs by year;
(ii)   the actual crop budgets by year;
(iii)   the actual area developed and sown under irrigated, dry and
terraced land by year and crops; and
(iv)   incremental revenue from production of crop, grass/livestock, and
forestry, as well as soil improvement.
(b)   Formulating farm household survey data for each subcomponent and
especially for typical beneficiary families of low-, medium-, and high-
income households, including detailed income estimates from crop
production, sideline and others, and expenditure for self-consumption,
investment and operation cost, tax, and other charges with and without
project.
(c)   Finalizing the completed investment costs, procurement, disbursement and
financing plan for the whole component as well as each subcomponent.
(d)   Complete a summary table of actual investment on Training and Technical
Assistance (cover all programs and topics).
[A list of the detailed tables has been provided to the PMO (Yinda and Guanchuan) by
the mission. Since the schedule is tight, the mission suggests that the PMO completes the
final version of the tables, and send it to the RMC immediately.]
10.   The mission suggested the following areas that need to be strengthened and /or
supplemented with the information required for the ICR:
(a)   Poverty alleviation and/or other social economic benefits.  Details
regarding:
(i)   drinking water provided for farmers and their livestock;
(ii)   rural roads and electricity supplied to the villages/households;



- 26 -                     ANNEX A
(iii)   Improved living standard and income levels for about 96,000
households; and
(iv)   incremental employment opportunity for farmers and role of
women.
(b)   Environmental benefit from soil conservation and forestry development;
(c)   Comment on the technical assistance provided to Yindaruqin component
by foreign engineers and experts;
(d)   Project sustainability;
(e)   Factors affecting implementation and key lessons learned;
(f)   Future operation:
(i)   Provide a three-year implementation plan for remaining civil,
on-farm and settlement works of Yindaruqin subcomponent, and
complete the relevant tables for cost estimation and financing plan;
(ii)    Assurances need to be obtained from the Yindaruqin PMO to set
the procedure for initially setting and periodically adjusting the
water charge to ensure that water charge will meet at least the full
annual O&M costs.
11.   Draft ICR prepared by the Bank is expected to be completed before October 1,
1996, and will be forwarded to both project offices for their comments in early October
and comments back to the Bank by November 1, 1996. This would require GPIO to
finalize the completion reports from Yindaruqin and Guanchuan River, and forward a
consolidated report to the Bank by July 1, 1996.
12.   Outstanding Issues. Based on the mission's findings, there are three major
issues that need to resolved as early as possible:
(a)   Assurance should be obtained from provincial and local governments that
adequate funds would be made available to the Yindaruqin component in a
timely fashion for the remaining canal construction, on-farm works, and
resettlement; the estimated annual amount of counterpart funds necessary
for the project completion should be identified and discussed with the
PMO in order to ensure that proper attention is paid to the financing of the
remained works (total about $85.18 million for three years);
(b)   To achieve project objectives (the targets of incremental agriculture
production), agricultural support services have to be carried out by PMO
or local agriculture bureau in the project area, such as supply of improved



-27-                      ANNEX A
quality seeds, credit and use of fertilizers, irrigation techniques, and
general training for settlers on irrigated agriculture.
(c)   PMOs in Yindaruqin and Guanchuan should start and continue to monitor
components progress and evaluate the economic benefits and overall
social impact (to measure current levels of inputs and production, crop
yields and farm incomes, changes resulting from the project, and etc.);
IDA will continue to monitor progress of the actions to be taken by the
PMOs, especially for remaining works of Yindaruqin component, during
supervision of Hexi project in Gansu.
Dated: May 15, 1996
(Revised 5/31/96)
Lanzhou, Gansu Province



-28 -                      ANNEX A
H. FOLLOW-UP ICR MISSION, SEPTEMBER 1996
1.    A Bank mission, comprising Lang S. Tay (Task Manager) and Li Qun (Consultant
Project Analyst), visited Gansu Province from September 17 to 18 to follow up on the
preparation of Implementation Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Component of the
Gansu Provincial Development Project, which was closed on June 30, 1996. The mission
met the Gansu World Bank Projects Implementation Office (GPIO), the Yindaruqin and
the Guanchuan Project Management Offices and reviewed the draft ICRs prepared by the
Rural and Social Development Operations Division (EA2RS) and GPIO after the initial
ICR mission in May 1996. The mission wishes to thank GPIO, Yindaruqin and
Guanchuan PMOs for the cooperation and hospitality extended to the mission.
2.    The following record the topics discussed and their agreement reached:
(a)   GPIO and the Bank mission agreed to revise and update their respective
draft ICRs based on the discussion held over the main text of the report
and the attached table;
(b)   The Bank mission agreed to provide a copy of the revised draft to GPIO
before the mission leaves Lanzhou;
(c)   GPIO will review consistency of their revised draft with the draft ICR
provided by the Bank mission and submit their draft to the Bank by
October 15, 1996 together with any other further comments on the draft
ICR provided by the mission;
(d)   GPIO will arrange to obtain an official commitment in writing from the
Gansu Provincial Government to provide adequate funds to complete the
remaining on-farm irrigation works by the end of 1998 and land settlement
by the end of 1999. This official commitment document will be included
as an annex in the final ICR to be printed by the World Bank.
3.    The Bank mission and GPIO agreed to cooperate with each other in the
finalization of the ICR.
Dated: September 18, 1996
Lanzhou, China



- 29 -        ANNEXB
ANNEX B: COMMITMENT LETTER FROM GANSU
PROVINCE TO COMPLETE THE REMAINING WORKS



- 30 -                    ANNEX C
ANNEX C: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Summary Assessment
The World Bank has taken part in the overall works of the project, and has provided full
support and cooperation in respect of Project identification, preparation, appraisal,
supervision. Under direct leadership of Gansu Provincial Government, and with great
supports of the provincial departments concerned such as Planning Committee,
Construction Committee, Finance Bureau, Water Resources Bureau, Liangxi
Construction Commanding Office, Banks and the Auditing Bureau and the relevant
prefecture, municipality and counties, the Special Project Implementation Offices were
responsible for implementation of the project.
A. Project Objectives
The Main objectives of Agriculture Component of the Development Project were to raise
the living standards and income levels for poor households in the drought-stricken & arid
areas of Gansu Province.
Construction of Yindaruqin Irrigation Scheme was to irrigate 57,000 ha farm land, and to
move 15,000 poor households from surrounding drought-stricken areas to the new
Irrigation Area. The other part of the project was to promote development of rain-fed
agriculture in 76,000 ha land in Guanchuan River Basin through soil and water
conservation and improved farming practices. The main features of the Project were as
follows:
To complete construction of Feeder Canal, main canals, a network of branches, laterals
and sub-lateral canals, farm roads networks and drains in Yindaruqin Irrigation Area, and
construction of terraced land and check dams in Guanchuan River Basin. To improve the
rural access roads and provide rural electricity supply. To provide training on water
resources management and agriculture to upgrade the technical and management skills,
and to provide necessary consulting service for project management. After overall
completion of the Project, 127,000 tons of wheat, other grains and oil crops will be
increased yearly, 179,000 tons of vegetables, melons & fruits and melon seeds, 11,000
tons of pork, beef, mutton, 640 tons of sheep's wool, and certain quantity of leather, milk
and timber will be produced every year. The project would provide drinking water to the
local population and livestock. And the project would provide enough shrub fuel forest
and other fuel wood to solve present fuel shortage problem. The project would improve
living standards and income level of 96,000 households. The average income would be
increased by RMBY 425 in Yindaruqin Irrigation Area and RMBY 415 in Guanchuan
River Basin respectively.



-31-                      ANNEX C
The project was a model for development of irrigated agriculture, rain-fed agriculture and
land settlement which conformed to Gansu's Strategy for agriculture development. It
shows that the selection of the project was correct, and the project objectives were proper
and practical.
B. Implementation Experience and Outcome
The main works of Yindaruqin Project were completed prior to October 1995, through
successful water conveyance trial of Feeder Canal, East Main Canals No. I and No. 2. In
July 1995, an earthquake with magnitude 5.8 occurred in Yongdeng where Yindaruqin
irrigation facilities were located, and there were no any effects to the project. Up to June,
1996, the Project has been safely operated for two years, the total irrigated land was
22,730 ha. And 31,066 persons were settled, the unit yield in the Irrigation Area was
2.25 times higher than that in dry sandy land, the average income per capita increased
from RMBY 150 to RMBY 530. Construction of some branch canals, sub-pumping
branches and on-farm development works have not been completed, so that the benefit
has not been fully achieved yet. A three-year-plan was put forward by Yindaruqin
Management Bureau, and it was submitted to the World Bank for confirmation. It is
planned to complete the remaining works of the project before the year of 1998, and to
complete the land settlement work before the year of 1999. Guanchuan River Basin Sub-
component was virtually completed by the end of 1992, and 12 construction targets
determined during project appraisal were fully achieved in time, and in many cases
exceeded comparing with original plan. Through comparison between pre-project and
post-project, in six years, soil runoff was reduced about 3,960,000 tons, water storage
capacity was increased to 11,400,000 cubic meter, the rate of land utilization was raised
from 60% to 87%. The outstanding outcome was achieved in respect of soil erosion
control, promotion of agriculture production, improvement of people's living standards.
Average yield per capita was raised from 291 kg to 406 kg, the net income per capita
increased from RMBY 223 to RMBY 747.
After completion of the Project, the governments at various levels will continue to give
more attention & supports, and action measures of policy, and investment environment
will be improved. Therefore, it is fully guaranteed to maintain the achieved great targets
and to realized the normal long term operation.
The total planned loan of the project was USD 130 million (Equivalent to SDR 102.86
million), the actual disbursement was USD 143.34 million (equivalent to SDR 102.86
million). The planned counterpart fund was RMBY 521 million (equal to USD 120
million), the actual counterpart fund was RMBY 558.42 million. RMBY 592.87 million
will be invested (equivalent to USD 72.3 million) to ensure completion of the remaining
works.
The key factors for having the successful project were as follows:
The government pay more attention to the project, and organizations are complete and
perfect; funds supply in time; scientific management, supervision and supports by the



- 32 -                    ANNEX C
World Bank are also very important. Especially in the course of implementation of the
project, advanced management experiences and technology by the World Bank were
effectively utilized, such as FIDIC conditions on contract management, bidding
procurement, experts for consulting, staff training, staged monitoring, and economic
appraisal. Though the engineering works were complicated and tough some works
needed to be completed, with some unforeseeable problems. Thanks to the above-
mentioned favorable factors, all these difficulties can be overcome. The remaining works
will be ftilly completed soon. It could be considered that all the major objectives and
great development outcome were achieved in the project without any defects.
In the course of implementation of Yindaruqin Sub-component, many difficult technical
problems were resolved, many unpredicted difficulties were overcome.   Some
experiences in respect of using the World Bank loan, applying FIDIC conditions in
construction management were accumulated. Due to various reasons, project progress
was little later than the schedule in the Appraisal Report, the benefit has not been fully
achieved, but the total outcome was outstanding and significant.
C. Key Lessons Learned and Future Operation
The major experience was to renew conception and ideas, renovate the old management
patterns according to the management procedures, mechanism and methods to implement
the project. This was the primary condition for ensuring the Project to achieve high
efficiency and best quality. The main lessons were: Underestimating of engineering
complications and difficulties, potential problems, price escalation of construction
materials and change of exchange rate caused increase of work quantity and investment at
large extend, which also adversely affected the progress of the Project.
Respective plans for future operation of the two sub-components management offices
were produced, detailed objectives and assuring measures were worked out. The main
works are as follows: to raise funds to complete the remaining works within a definite
time, to strengthen produced operation and maintenance, management & staff training, to
increase scientific and technology inputs, to perfect the monitoring system and operation
standards so as to achieve all targets in the full development period of the project.









