Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1793 CHA
Project Agreement
(Gansu Provincial Development Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
GANSU PROVINCE
Dated September 14, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1793 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 2812 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1987, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
and GANSU PROVINCE (Gansu).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
one hundred nineteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
119,100,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that Gansu agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Gansu agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Gansu, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Page  2
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions and the Bank's General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Gansu declares its commitment to the objective of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project as follows:
(i)
Part A through the Project Implementation Office within the Gansu 
Water Resources
Bureau, and the Dingxi Prefecture Protect Implementing Office;
(ii)
Part B through the Project Implementation Office of the Gansu 
Bureau of Education;
(iii)
Part C.l through GITC; and
 
(iv)
Part C.2 through the Gansu Project Implementation Office referred 
to in Section 
2.02 (a) of this Agreement; all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate 
administrative, financial, agricultural, educational, rural credit 
and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree, Gansu shall carry 
out Part C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
the Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Association, the Bank and Gansu.
Section 2.02. Gansu shall maintain:
(a)
the Gansu Project Implementation Committee established for the purpose of 
coordinating
implementation of the Project, together with its Gansu Project Implementation Office;
(b)
the Dingxi Prefecture Project Implementing Office referred to in Section 
2.01 (a) (i) of this Agreement; and
(c)
the Project Implementation Office referred to in Section 2.01 (a) (ii) of 
this Agreement; all with staff, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the 
Association and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project, 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, shall be governed 
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Gansu shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Page  3
(b)
Gansu shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the Bank's General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) Gansu shall, at the request of the Association or the Bank, 
exchange views with the Association and the Bank with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b)
Gansu shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or the performance by Gansu 
of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Gansu shall submit to the Association, for the Association's 
review and comments not later than June 30, 1988, the details of the training program 
under Part A.5 of the Project, and shall thereafter, in consultation with the 
Association, implement such training program.
Section 2.07. (a) Gansu shall from time to time exchange views with the 
Association on the progress achieved in carrying out the Policy Action Program and 
Part B of the Project, and shall, without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 
of the General Conditions, by January 1, of each year beginning January l, 1988, 
submit to the Association, for the Association's review and comments, a progress 
report on the implementation of the Policy Action Program using the indicators 
included in such Policy Action Program, to assess progress achieved during the 
previous school year.
(b)
In addition to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, Gansu and the 
Association shall hold a comprehensive mid-term review for Part B of the Project by 
June 30, 1990.
Section 2.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.08 of the 
General Conditions, Gansu shall acquire not later than September 30, 1987, or such 
other date as the Association shall agree, the site for the Center for School 
Administration referred to under Part B.5 of the Project.
Section 2.09. Gansu shall take steps to assign the newly recruited normal 
college staff, who have no prior teaching experience, to one year of teaching at a 
lower secondary school, prior to taking up their normal college assignments.
Section 2.10. For the purpose of carrying out Part C.l of the Project, Gansu 
shall enter into a Project Implementation Agreement with GITC, under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Bank which shall include, inter alia, the arrangements 
specified in Part A of the Schedule to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Gansu shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition in respect of the activities related to the 
Project; and (ii) cause GITC to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial conditions.
(b)
Gansu shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above, including 
the Special 
Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association and the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but 
Page  4
in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, including GITC's financial statements, 
in such scope and in such 
detail as the Association and the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said 
accounts and financial statements as well as 
the audit thereof and said records, as 
the Association and the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account or the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, Gansu 
shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
separate records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association and the Bank 
have received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit 
Account or the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's and the Bank's representatives to examine 
such records; 
and 
 
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report thereof 
contains, in respect 
of such separate accounts, a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
proceeds of the 
Credit or the Loan withdrawn in respect of such expenditures were 
used for the purposes for which they were provided.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Gansu shall cause 
GITC not to incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to 
equity shall be greater than 1.5 to l.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of GITC maturing by its 
terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or
other instrument providing for such debt or for the modification 
of its terms of 
payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained 
earnings and reserves of GITC not allocated to 
cover specific liabilities.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, 
such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing 
lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Page  5
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, the 
Bank and Gansu thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance
with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement, or the Loan Agreement or both of 
said Agreements terminate in accordance with their terms before the date specified in 
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association, or the Bank, or both, as the case 
may be, shall promptly notify Gansu of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development Credit 
Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated  by  notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
   and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
Page  6
For Gansu:
Gansu Project Implementation Office
1 Central Square
Lanzhou, Gansu
People's Republic of China
Telex:
72117 PIETC CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Gansu, may be 
taken or executed by the Governor of Gansu or such other person or persons as the 
Governor shall designate in writing, and the Governor shall furnish to the Association 
and the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
GANSU PROVINCE
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
A:
Part C.1
 
Except as the Bank and Gansu shall otherwise agree, Part C.1 of the Project 
shall be implemented, inter alia, according to the following:
1.
Gansu shall select, appraise and monitor Sub-projects in accordance with 
criteria agreed with the
Bank. 
2.
(a)
No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(i)
the Sub-loan shall have been approved by the Bank and such 
expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which 
the Bank shall 
have received the application and information 
Page  7
required under paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule in respect 
of such Sub-loan; or
(ii)
the Sub-loan shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan for which the 
Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures 
shall have been 
made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date 
on which the Bank shall have 
received the request and 
information required under paragraph 3 (b) of this 
Schedule in 
respect of such free-limit Sub-loan.
(b)
For the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement 
and this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan in an amount to be 
financed under the Loan Agreement which, together with any other amount or amounts 
previously financed for the same Sub-project under Sub-loans financed from the 
proceeds of the Loan, and not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent 
of $500,000, and which when added to all other free-limit Sub-loans financed under the 
Project, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $4,000,000, the foregoing 
amounts being subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c)
Notwithstanding subparagraph (b) above, the first nine Sub-loans 
presented by GITC shall not be deemed free-limit Sub-loans, irrespective of the amount 
of any such Sub-loan.
3.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan to the Bank for approval pursuant to the terms 
of this Agreement, Gansu shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description and an appraisal of the Sub 
borrower, and an appraisal of the Sub-project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed thereunder, the procurement procedures applicable 
to the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan; (ii) the 
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization 
of the Sub-loan or of repayment to Gansu, of the amount of the Sub-loan to be used for 
the Sub project; and (iii) such other information as the Bank may reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by Gansu for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of 
the Sub-borrower and the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and a description of the 
procurement procedures, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including 
the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before June 30, 1990.
4.
Gansu shall on lend the proceeds of the Loan to GITC on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, which would allow GITC a minimum interest rate spread of 4% on 
its sub-loans.  Sub-loans denominated in local currency shall carry a variable 
interest rate specified initially at 10.08%, while sub-loans denominated in dollars 
shall carry a fixed interest rate of 8.5%.
5.
Gansu shall cause GITC:
 
(a)
to prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than March 31, 1988, for 
the Bank's review and comments, a Policy Statement setting out GITC's operational and 
financial policy guidelines, covering its objectives, operations and finances;
(b)
to adopt not later than June 30, 1988 the policy statement referred to in 
(a) above; and
(c)
not to introduce any changes to the Policy Statement which will affect 
the carrying out of Part C.1 of the Project without the Bank's prior approval.
6.
Gansu shall cause GITC to: (i) carry out, not later than December 31, 1987, a 
thorough review of its lending portfolio; and (ii) based on such review, and not later 
than June 30, 1988, decide, in consultation with the Bank, on loan amounts to be 
written off, bad debt provisions, rescheduling and increases in penalty interest 
Page  8
rates.
7.
(a)
Gansu shall, from time to time, exchange views with the Bank on the 
interest rates to be charged by GITC in its lending operations in light of GITC's cost 
of funds and profitability, and interest and inflation rates in China.
(b)
Prior to making any reduction in GITC's interest rates on its loans with 
maturity of at least 3 years, Gansu shall cause GITC to inform the Bank of the 
proposed reduction, and afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.
B:
Part C.2:
 
8.
Gansu shall submit to the Association not later than September 30, 1987, for the 
Association's review and comments, the proposed curricula of Gansu Economic Management 
Institute on project cycle management and business administration courses, and shall 
adopt such curricula taking into account the Association's comments.
9.
(a)
Gansu shall, under terms of reference, agreed with the Association, carry 
out not later than September 30, 1988, three studies, to be agreed with the 
Association, on agroprocessing industries under Part C.2 (b) of the Project, and shall 
submit the results of the studies to the Association, for the Association's review and 
comments not later than December 31, 1988.
(b)
Based on the results of the studies referred to in (a) above, Gansu 
shall, in agreement with the Association, carry out additional studies on 
agro-processing industries not later than September 30, 1989, and shall submit the 
results of such studies to the Association, for the Association's review and comments 
not later than December 31, 1989.
10.
Gansu shall carry out the training program under Part C.2 (a) of the Project in 
accordance with a program and schedule acceptable to the Association.
