LOAN NUMBER 2812 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Gansu Provincial Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated      see,&"     -ez, 1987


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2812 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     J a                    , 1987, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the
International Development Association (the Association) of even
date herewith (the Development Credit Agreement), has requested
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association to pro-
vide additional financial assistance toward the financing of the
Project and by the Development Credit Agreement the Association
is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to one hundred nineteen million one hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 119,100,000).
(C) the Project will be carried out by Gansu Province
(hereinafter referred to as Gansu) with the Borrower's assis-
tance, and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to Gansu the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and
WREREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the Bank's
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Bank's General Conditions and in the
Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the term "Development Credit Agreement" means the
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the


﻿-2-
Association for the Project, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes the General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association,
dated January 1, 1985, (as modified) as applied to such agree-
ment, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Development Credit Agreement,
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I
to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not with-
drawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to
one-half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.


﻿(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"  means   the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, expressed as a percentage per
annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section,
Sections 2.02 (b), 3.01 and 3.02, Article IV of the Development
Credit Agreement and Schedules 1, 2, 3, and 4 thereto are incor-
porated in the Loan Agreement, with the following modifications
in said Sections, Articles and Schedules 2 and 3.
(i) the term "Association" shall be read as "Bank"'
and
(ii) the term "Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be
read as "Loan" and "Loan Account", respectively.
(b) So long as any part of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding:
(i) all actions taken, including approvals given, by
the Association pursuant to any of the Sections
and Articles of, and Schedules to, the Development
Credit Agreement enumerated in paragraph (a) of


﻿-4-
this Section, as well as pursuant to Section 2.02
(a) of the Development Credit Agreement, shall be
deemed to be taken or given in the name and on
behalf of both the Association and the Bank; and
(ii) all information or documentation furnished by the
Borrower to the Association pursuant to the provi-
sions of any of such Sections and Articles of the
Development Credit Agreement or Schedules thereto
shall be deemed to be furnished to both the
Association and Bank.
Section 3.02. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the Bank's General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respec-
tively) shall be carried out by Gansu pursuant to Section 2.04
(b) of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the Bank's General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower's State Council shall have approved this
Agreement; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other
than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 4.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the Bank's General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the Bank's General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of 5ection 11.01 of the Bank's General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                     Telex:
FINANMIN                          22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
iY             Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
As ia


﻿--7-
SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1992
through   December 1, 2006                  665,000
On June 1, 2007                                  715,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See the
Bank's General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿-8-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the Bank's General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


