Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6859-TO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 32.2 MILLION
TO
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
APRIL 2, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 31, 1995)
Currency Unit        =      CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00              =      CFAF 480.50
CFAF I million       -      US$2,081
SDR 1.0              =      US$1.55639
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO         -      Banque des Etats de I'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central Bank of West African States)
BIC           -      Benefice Industriel et Commercial (Business Tax on Profits)
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
CEB           -      Communaute Electrique du Benin (Regional Power Company)
CEET          -      Compagnie d'Energie Electrique du Togo (National Power Company)
CPI           -      Consumer Price Index
CPPR          -      Country Portfolio Performance Review
ECOWAS        -      Economic Community of West African States
EPZ           -      Export Processing Zone
ESAF          -      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU            -      European Union
FNI           -      Fonds National d'Investissement (National Investment Fund)
GDP           -      Gross Domestic Product
IFC           -      Intemational Financial Corporation
IMF           -      International Monetary Fund
MIGA          -      Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MISE          -      Ministere de l'Industrie et des Societes d'Etat (Ministry of Industry and Public
Enterprises)
NGOs          -      Non Government Organizations
NTBs          -      Non Tariff Barriers
OED           -      Operation Evaluation Department
OPAT          -      Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo ( Marketing Board)
OTP           -      Office Togolais des Phosphates (Phosphate Company)
PE            -      Public Enterprise
PER           -      Public Expenditure Review
PFP           -      Policy Framework Paper
PIP           -      Public Investment Program
RNET          -      R6gie Nationale des Eaux du Togo (Water Company)
SIG           -      Svsteme d'Information de Gestion ( Management Information System)
SITC          -      Standard Intemational Trade Classification
SONACOM    -         Societc Nationale de Commerce (Trade Company)
SOTOCO        -      Societe Togolaise de Coton (Cotton Company)
STPM          -      Societe Togolaise de Produits Maritimes (Fishing Company)
TFR           -      Taxe de Fonds Routier (Road Fund Tax)
TGA           -      Taxe Generale sur les Affaires (General Sales Tax)
TOGOPHARMA           Pharmaceutical Company
TT            -      Taxe sur les Transactions (Transaction Tax)
VAT           -      Value Added Tax
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROGRAM  SUMMARY  ................................................                            i
I.  THE ECONOMY             ...............................................                              I
A. Background ...............................................I
B. Recent Developments .......2........................................2
C .  P overty                     ...............................................               4
D. Medium Term Prospects and Financing Requirements .............................................4
E. Bank Strategy                  5..............................................            .5
II. TOGO'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM   ............                        ...................................8
A. Macroeconomic Framework ............................................................................... 8
B. Public Finances ......................  8
C. Public Enterprises .....................   I I
D. Strengthening the Incentive and Regulatory Framework .................... ...... . ....     14
11. THE PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND ADJUSTMENT CREDIT  ........ 16
A. ERAC Program and Link to CAS ......................... ........ 16
B. Poverty Impact ........................  .17
C. Credit Amount and Proposed Conditionality ....................................1..7... .....  ... 17
D. Procurement, Disbursement, Financial Management and Auditing  ...1...............  18
E. Benefits and Risks               ............................................... . ... .   18
IV. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS                                            ..                            .... 19
V. COLLABORATION WITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS                                            ..   .. 19
VI. RECOMMENDATION    ......................................................                           20
ANNEXES
Annex A: Social Indicators
Annex B: Key Economic Indicators
Annex C: External Financing Requirements, 1990-1998
Annex D: Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex E: Policy Matrix
Annex F: Supplemental Data Sheet
Annex G: Letter of Development Policy
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
[official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.           |






REPUBLIC OF TOGO
ECONOMIC RECOVERY ANID ADJUSTMENT CRED) 1
CREDIT AND PRCG'RAM SUMMARY
Beneficiary:         Republic of Togo
Amount:              SDR 32.2 million (US$50 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Description:         The proposed operation would support the resumption of sustained growth in
Togo following the economic and fiscal collapse of 1992-93. Its main objectives
are to restore macroeconomic stability, support a strong private sector-led supply
response to the devaluation of the CFA franc, and improve the delivery of essential
social services. It is a key element of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
presented to the Executive Directors on June 28, 1995. The adjusti ,-It package
proposed under the operation supports the restoration of macroecor 111lc stability
through: (i) public finirnce measures to rebuild the tax base, cont .. expenditures
and clear arrears; ane u) acceleration of the public enterp'is.. liquidation and
privatization progra i :o eliminate loss-making enterprisWs and shield viable
enterprises from pv ss.rc to finance Government deficit- Reforms to support
broad-based private see .r-led growvth include: (i) impro,mng the regulatory
environment through revision of investment and labor codes and further price and
trade liberalization, and (iH) increasing the scope for pr. ate activity through
privatization and atolition of renmaining public monopolies in commercial
activities. Targri ing of minimum budgetary allocations to priority secto-  ould
improve key heaith, education and infrastructure services Nhich are; .,ential to
long-term growlth. The operation would accelerate and de, pen Togo's adjustment
process which started in the 1980s and w%as interrupted by the years of political
and social turmoil. The Govenunerits I.etter of Development Policy is attached as
Annex G.
Benefits:            The proposed credit would support policies to restore sustained growth and reduce
poverty. Restoration of a predictaY!e and stable macroeconomic environment
including a substantial real depreciation of the currency combined with the
proposed regulatory and i.icentive system reforms should stimulate private
investment and increase the demand for labor, the most important asset of the
poor. Through targeting of minimal budgetary allocations to priority sectors, the
operation would also ensure the r -umption of key health, education and
infrastructure services.
Poverty Category:    Poverty Focused. The proposed credit would support reallocation of public
expenditures towards basic services and physical infrastructure which are
expected to be particularly beneficial for the poorest segments of the population.
It will support the elimination of labor regulations that deter employment and
access of the poor to the labor market. The credit would also support reforms of



- ii -
the export crop sector intended to ensure a higher share of the export price for
cotton, coffee and cocoa producers.
Estimated            The credit would be disbursed in two tranches of SDRl9.28 million and SDR
Disbursement:        12.92 million respectively. The first tranche would be disbursed immediately after
credit effectiveness. The second tranche is expected to be disbursed twelve months
later, subject to the maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic framework and
satisfactory fulfillment of the specific conditions.
Staff Appraisal      Not applicable
Report:
Map:                 Not applicable
Project ID No.       35991



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TOGO
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Economic
Recovery and Adjustment Credit (ERAC) to the Republic of Togo for SDR32.2 million, the equivalent of
US$50 million. This credit would be on standard IDA terms, with an amortization period of 40 years. The
program supported by this credit aims directly at assisting the recovery of the Togolese economy following
the deep economic and fiscal collapse of the early 1990s. In addition, it aims at maximizing the economic
response to the January 1994 devaluation cf the CFA franc by deepening the adjustnitnt measures put in
place since the mid-1980s. The ERAC is an integral part of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).
Togo's adjustment efforts are also supported by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) through a three-
year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) under which the second annual arrangement was
approved in December 1995. Support is also provided by the African Development Bank and bilateral
donors.
l. THE ECONOMY
A. Background
2.     During the early 1980s, after a decade of high growth and heavy external borrowing to finance an
ambitious public investment program, Togo failed to adjust to a sharp decline in the intemational prices of
its major exports (phosphate, coffee and cocoa). Its financial situation worsened significantly and it began
incurring extemal payment arrears. As a result, it started the decade with high external indebtedncss,
intemal and extemal macroeconomic imbalances, and an economy saddled with numerous structural
rigidities which inhibited domestic production. Between 1983 and 1989, stabilization and adjustment
programs implemented with the support of the Bretton Woods institutions and other donors helped the
country achieve a substantial liberalization of its economy and led to a resumption of growth within a less
favorable extemal environment characterized by commodity prices far below the peak level reached in
1980.
3.     Togo's Past Adjustment Programs.  The Togolese reform  process, which began in 1983
supported by IDA and IMF resources, was centered on: (i) reducing unsustainable public sector deficits
which had their origin in the Govenmment's expansionary policies of the 1970s; and (ii) achieving a
substantial liberalization of the economy and a recovery of growth. The timing and sequencing of the
structural reform program reflected steady progress in dealing with severe problems in all areas of
economic activity and management: agricultural pricing and marketing; restructuring of the public
enterprise sector; public resource allocation and efficiency; domestic and external trade taxation; and the
incentive framework for non-agricultural sectors. Substantial progress was achieved in all areas. Following
three years of deep recession, real gross domestic product (GDP) growth averaged 3.4 percent a year
between 1984 and 1989 (with real growth of cash crop output averaging 11 percent and manufacturing 6
percent a year). Table 1 (p. 7) maps Togo's movement towards its policy frontier. It summarizes Togo's
reform agenda, progress made under previous adjustment programs, issues tackled under the proposed
credit and remaining reforms to be implemented in the context of the Bank assistance strategy to Togo.



-2 -
4.     OED's Evaluation of Past Adjustment Programs. The Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) rated SAC I (approved mid-1983) and SAC 11 (approved mid-1985) as satisfactory. It noted that:
(i) the structural adjustment program was based on a clear-sighted analysis of Togo's strengths and
weaknesses, and comprised a set of measures, the progressive implementation of which was a prerequisite
for restoration of durable growth; and (ii) substantial progress was achieved in the areas of agriculture,
public enterprises and public resource management (Public Investment Programming). OED rated SAC III
(approved in 1988) as unsatisfactory. It noted that further progress was achieved in agricultural reforms
and on the fiscal front (introduction of the general sales tax (TGA) and reform of the foreign trade regime).
Its overall assessment, however, was that the lack of attention to critically needed reforms to the phosphate
company (OTP) essentially made the SAC process not credible.
A fourth adjustment credit (SAC IV) was approved in 1990. In view of the progress already
achicved in liberalizing the economy, and with external trade and agricultural pricing reforms introduced at
end- 1 989, the reform agenda under SAC IV shifted to a great extent to institutional issues. In addition to
the continuation of the public enterprise (PE) privatization/liquidation program, the operation supported the
adoption of a regulatory framework for further privatization; integration of social considerations into policy
formulation, and improvement in public sector management through organizational reform  of kev
ministries. Implementation of the program was poor. As noted by OED, a major factor for poor
implementation was the political turmoil that affected the country from the first quarter of 1991 to the end
of 1993. The release of the second tranche was delayed by more than two years. It was finally disbursed in
July 1994 with all conditions met. But because third tranche conditions had become outdated given the
changes in the Togolese economy, the third tranche of SAC IV (US$15 million) was canceled. With regard
to OTP, the issue was taken up in the context of SAC IV and he 1992 Policy Framework Paper (PFP): an
operational audit of the company was undertaken in 1992 and the conclusions of the audit were key to the
dialogue with the Government on the future of the company. The proposed ERAC pursues the reform of
OTP.
B. Recent Developments
6.    Political Developments. The successful economic recovery of the 1980s was not paralleled by a
successful political transition. In late-1990, the regime in place came under increasing pressure to establish
a multi-party system. A period of political crisis, marred by violent street riots and mass civil disobedience,
ensued. A national conference, convened in July 1991, led to the formation of a one-year transition
government. Parliamentary and presidential elections were scheduled for July 1992 but political violence
disturbed the electoral calendar, paralyzing economic activity from November 1992 through July 1993.
7.    The political situation improved during the second half of 1993. In August 1993, President
Eyadema was reelected for a five-year term and legislative elections were completed in March 1994 with
the two opposition parties obtaining a slight parliamentary majority. Despite three months of intense
discussions, the three major political formations failed to reach a consensus on the composition of a new
Government. After protracted negotiations, a new government was formed in June 1994, headed by Mr.
Edem Kodjo, the leader of the minority party in the opposition. The majority party of the opposition is not
part of the government but does participate in the national assembly. During the first half of 1994, there
were sporadic outbursts of violence and the army remained very visible. The political climate, however,
improved during the second half of the year. An amnesty for opponents implicated in armed attacks in 1993
and early- 1994 was proclaimed in December and the border with Ghana, which had been closed for about a
year, was reopened. In August 1995, the Government and the UNDP High Commission for Refugees
concluded an agreement on voluntary repatriation of refugees. Most observers consider that, although the



- 3 -
political situation remains fragile, the overall political arrangement is a positive step towards establishing a
democratic system of government in Togo and that the recent political developments set the stage for the
stability the country needs to restart its reform process and regain the growth performance it demonstrated
during the 1980s. The new political coexistence requires significant consensus building in order to ensure
full support for reforms.
8.    Economic Developments. The combination of socio-political turmoil and compression of
government expenditure, exacerbated by the drying up of foreign aid, led to a severe contraction of the
economy. During 1991-93, GDP fell by 21 percent, fiscal revenues dropped by a cumulative 52 percent,
and by end-1993, the overall fiscal deficit widened to 15 percent of GDP. The government accumulated
substantial domestic payment arrears amounting to the equivalent of 2 percent of GDP in 1992 and 11
percent in 1993 with more than half corresponding to unpaid salaries and social security contributions.
Exports and imports contracted sharply (by 44 and 41 percent. respectively). The substantial drop in net
foreign financing led to a marked deterioration in the overall balance of payments. By end- 1993. external
payment arrears were estimated at the equivalent of US$ llI million.
9.     The 1993 economic and fiscal collapse severely affected the parastatal and the financial sectors.
The parastatal sector is riddled with debts and arrears which include PEs' advances to the treasury,
government payment arrears, cross receivables among PEs, salary arrears, private sector (household and
commercial) arrears to the PEs, and finally, PEs' arrears to suppliers. The position of the commercial
banks was seriously compromised by their high exposure to OTP to which they had been required to extend
short term credit well beyond the Central Bank (BCEAO) prudential ratios and by a sharp deterioration of
their portfolio induced by the difficulties faced by the real sector. The stock of PEs' debts to the banking
sector amounted to CFA franc 39 billion by end 1993. OTP's debt represented 75 percent of the total. The
magnitude of non OTP debts is small and part of these debts are from PEs that were liquidated years ago.
Finally, the lack of capital investment and routine maintenance over the past three years has taken a heavy
toll on the country's physical infrastructure (roads, energy, urban services, health and education facilities).
10.   Post-Devaluation Developments. Following the January 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc, a
1994/95-1996/97 PFP was prepared and signed by the new Government in July 1994. The PFP provided
the macroeconomic framework required for the resumption of structural reforms interrupted by the political
turmoil of the early 1990s. Implementation of the first year PFP/ESAF arrangement was successful and a
second year PFP was approved in December 1995. During 1994, the economy showed clear signs of
recovery. Real growth reached 14 percent reflecting a solid recovery from the depressed levels of 1992 and
1993, in particular in the secondary and tertiary sectors (26 and 46 percent growth, respectively) and the
effect of the CFA franc devaluation. In 1995, real GDP growth was estimated at about 8 percent, with the
export sector once again the driving force behind Togo's strong growth performance.
11.    Fiscal revenues exceeded program targets by about 8 percent in 1994, largely as a result of higher
than expected proceeds from direct taxes. Current expenditures were broadly in line with program targets
and civil service wages were not increased. The overall budget deficit which reached 13 percent of GDP in
1994 compared to 14.6 percent envisaged in the PFP was brought down to 8 percent of GDP in 1995, two
points below program targets. The current account deficit, estimated at 8 percent of GDP for 1994 and 7.4
percent of GDP in 1995 was respectively five and two points lower than programmed under the PFP. As a
result of the positive stimulus to exports provided by the adjustment of the CFA franc and a recovery from
the substantial deterioration of 1992-93, merchandise exports (excluding reexports) rose by 19 percent in
volume terms in 1994 and 10 percent in 1995. The volume of merchandise imports which dropped by 18
percent in response to the higher import prices in local currency terms, rebounded by a substantial 28
percent in 1995, in line with the recovery of the economy. Despite economic and fiscal revenue



- 4 -
performance exceeding program targets, the budgetary situation remained difficult. Although foreign aid
had officially resumed, the pace and level of disbursements remained linked to the pace of political
liberalization.
12.    As envisaged under the program, consumer prices rose by about 35 percent on average in 1994.
The relatively high inflation in 1994, which is similar to that in several other CFA countries, reflects a
variety of factors including the impact of the CFA franc devaluation, large inflows of capital, Togo's
exceptionally strong economic recovery from its very low 1993 level and a drop in food supply due to
adverse climatic conditions in the second half of 1994. Since February 1995, prices have stabilized,
suggesting that inflationary pressures are abating.  The annual average consumer price index (CPI)
increase is estimated at 7 percent in 1995.
C. Poverty
13.    As a result of three years of political turmnoil and a much reduced involvement with the country,
our knowledge of poverty issues in Togo is limited. A poverty assessment is underway. Its basic objectives
are to: (i) increase knowledge and awareness of poverty related issues within the country (including both
government and civil society) and within the donor community; and (ii) provide an instrument which will
guide IDA's assistance strategy and other donors and assist the Government in its own effort to reduce
poverty.
14.    Although in 1992 (the last year for which social statistics are available), life expectancy and child
mortality (under 5) were better than the Sub-Saharan average, it is now unlikely that social indicators in
Togo compare favorably with the average for the region. As a result of the 1992-93 fiscal and economic
collapse, poverty increased and the quality and access to basic social services have deteriorated
significantly. The education system was brought to a halt for several months. Health services were reduced
to a minimum level. Post-surgical mortality increased due to the lack of medicines, and vaccination
programs were stopped. Food security is a problem and malnutrition rates are increasing. GNP per capita
is estimated at US$309 in 1994.
15.    Following the devaluation of the CFA franc, the authorities lowered taxation of a small number of
imported consumer staples and sensitive goods. The import duties levied on sugar, milk, salt, medicines and
school supplies were reduced. Petroleum taxation was also reduced with a view to limiting price rises to a
range of 4-12 percent. Increases in -water and electricity tariffs were postponed to 1995. Government efforts
to alleviate poverty emphasize pressing issues of emplovment and adequate provision of social services.
Promotion of labor-intensive public works to provide additional employment for unskilled workers and
income earning opportunities for small contractors and an acceleration of implementation of projects with
high labor content in the public investment program (PIP) are among the measures being implemented to
address a pressing employment problem. The IDA-financed Transport Rehabilitation (Cr. 1861-TO) and
the Urban Development (Cr. 2620-TO) projects have been restructured to fit the real conditions of the local
construction industry and are instrumental to the implementation of this policy. The above-mentioned
measures constitute a preliminary but insufficient response to the sharp deterioration of living conditions
and increased poverty in Togo. A more comprehensive and systematic approach will be developed on the
basis of the poverty assessment.
D. Medium Term Prospects and Financing Requirements
16.    Under the combined influence of the improvement in the political climate, the CFA franc parity
adjustment, the implementation of the new adjustment program, and the resumption of external aid, the



- 5 -
Togolese economy is expected to grow significantly over the program period. Following the strong recovery
of 1994-95, real GDP grovth is expected to average 6.5 percent a year in 1996-98. Growth is expected to
remain broad based with improved external competitiveness stimulating non-traditional agriculture (fruits
and vegetables) and traditional export crops (coffee and cotton), small-scale manufacture (especially wood
and textile products) and services (building on Togo's traditional strength in commerce, financial services
and transportation)
17.    The favorable growth prospect is expected to raise the investment ratio to its pre-crisis level of 18
percent of GDP by 1997. The resources for this higher level of investment will come partly from an
increase in the savings ratio to about 13 percent by 1997. Central government investment which reached 4
percent of GDP in 1995 will gradually increase to 6 percent of GDP by the end of the program period. The
recovery of public investment during the program period is to be financed mainly by an increase in foreign
loans and grants. In response to the implementation of the pnrvatization program and reforms of the
incentive framework, private investment estimated at the equivalent of 8 percent of GDP in 1995 is
projected to reach 12 percent by the cnd of the program period.
18.    The impetus from growth will come largely from exports, reflecting the effect of the devaluation.
The volume of merchandise exports (excluding reexports) is expected to grow by an average 7 percent a
year in 1996-98. After a 28 percent rebound in 1995, the growth of merchandise imports is expected to
decelerate and level off at about 5 percent a year by 1998. This import profile reflects a substantial growth
in imports in line with the recovery of the economy followed by a gradual return to more normal levels.
Overall the current account deficit, excluding grants. is expected to remain at about 7.5 percent of GDP
during the program period.
19.    Total cxternal financing requirements for 1996-98 are estimated at US$696 million. After
accounting for US$157 million of debt relief, these requirements are expected to be met by grants (US$227
million), IMF ESAF resources (US$50 million), private capital (US$15 million) and medium and long term
loans (US$247 million).
E. Bank Strategy
20.    The central objectives of the IDA CAS FY96-98 as presented to the Executive Directors on June
28, 1995, are to promote sustainable growth and reduce poverty. Its implementation involves a two-
pronged approach to address both short-term emergency needs and longer-term development objectives.
The short-term  measures aim to ensure macroeconomic stability, restore basic social services and
rehabilitate the country's essential physical infrastructure. Reforms to restore macroeconomic stability will
be implemented under the proposed credit which will also support the CAS objective of ensuring a
favorable environment for private sector-led growth. A Public Expenditure Review (PER) is underway. Its
purpose is to analyze the structure of public expenditure and provide recommendations to restructure its
composition and raise its efficiency. The emphasis of the PER process has been on building government
capacity and ownership to enable the institutions concerned to undertake this exercise on a regular basis. In
the context of a highly constrained budgetary situation, the aim of the PER is to better address priority
social and developmental needs and assist the Government in reallocating financial resources from non-
productive to prioritv sectors and programs that benefit the poor and encourage private sector development.
Through the recently approved Education project and the ongoing Health Adjustment credit, IDA's
assistance will support the rehabilitation of school and health facilities, ensure the availability of basic
material and equipment, and support Government efforts to improve primary enrollment and teacher to
pupil ratios. As mentioned (para. 15), the ongoing Transport Rehabilitation project (Cr.1861-TO) was



-6-
restructured in 1994 to address immediate rehabilitation needs of paved roads in key sections of the
country's road network, while using labor intensive techniques to favor employment.
21.   To sustain growth and alleviate poverty over the medium to long-term, IDA strategy would support
policies to enhance the poor's participation in economic growth, create an overall favorable environment for
private sector development and increase the efficiency and sustainability of natural resource management.
Ongoing and future operations in the areas of agriculture, health, transport and finance will support these
long-tern objectives. A strong dialogue was developed with the private sector in the context of the design of
the proposed ERAC. As a follow up, a planned Private Sector Assessment will feed into the design of
futtire operations. Strengthening local non-govermmental organization's (NGO) capacitv to design and
implement community-level projects is a key feature of IDA's strategy in Togo. Based on its successful
experience with NGOs in three ongoing operations (Urban Development (Cr. 2620-TO), Education (Cr.
2174-TO) and Grassroots Development (Cr. 1993-TO) ), IDA will continue to involve NGOs with a good
track record in beneficiary participation, in all operations having a direct impact on the poor.
22.    During FY1996-98, IDA anticipates lending in the range of US$95-115 million for Togo.
Adjustment lending will support policy reforms in the financial and private sector development areas. The
CAS amount does not include the financing to be provided under the proposed ERAC which was originally
planned as an FY95 credit. The link between the 2roposed ERAC and the CAS is discussed in para. 57.
The table below summarizes Togo's reform agenda, progress made so far under previous adjustment
programs, issues tackled under the proposed credit and remaining reforms to be implemented in the context
of IDA's assistance strategy to Togo.



-7 -
Table 1: Togo's Reform Agenda
Issue   .....Main Actions UDdefr Previous::    MaJA j  j:EA                                              EWmalftkx1, a AW a**i 1.uet
- - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                      -M  d  ; -.  .   ..   ..   ..   ..
,iS~~~~~~~~.d                              ... . . . . . . ..   ,,..
Incentive and             l liberalization of food crops (prices,   * liberalization of coffee and cocoa  * completion of cotton sector liberalization (Rural
reaulatory framework      exports and imports)                    (prices, marketing and export)         Institutions and Credit Support Project, FY97)
in agriculture                                                  . transfer of cotton external marketing
a) food crops (20% of                                             from OPAT to SOTOCO followed by
GDP)                                                              a full liberalization of exports
b) export crops (3% of                                          * preparation of action plan for further
GDP and 25% of                                                    cotton sector liberalization
exports)
Incentive and           a abolition of state monopoly on        . removal of 3 remaining NTBs           * deregulation of maritime transport (Transport
repulatory framework    imports                                 . simplification of Investment Code;      Sector Investment Project, FY97)
for non-agricultural    . elimination of export and import        revision of Labor Code
activities                licensing (with the exception of 3    . removal of the remaining price        * further streamlining of the incentive, regulatory
products under NTBs)                   controls                                and institutional framework for private activities
. elimination of price controls for 150                                          (e.g., competition policy, foreign investment
products                                                                       promotion, increase availability of technological
. abolition of state monopoly for drug                                           and market information; legal framework; Private
import and distribution                                                        Sector Adjustment Operation, FY98)
Size and efficiency of   . privatization and liquidation of 35    . continuation of privatization and   * completion of PE reform program, including
public enterprises        PEs out of a total portfolio of 78      liquidation program for 25 additional   financial sector institutions and public utilities
. adoption of institutional and          public enterprises                      (Financial Sector and Public Enterprise
regulatory framework for public                                                Restructuring Operation, FY97; Private Sector
enterprises                                                                    Adjustment Operation, FY98)
. adoption of legislation for
privatization
MAIN ISSUE: OTP         . NOTHING DONE ON OTP                   . SALE OF 40%  OF GOVT. SHARES IN    * CONTINUED SALE OF GOVERNMENT SHARES
OTP TO PRIVATE INVESTORS
Efficiency of the tax    . introduction of income tax and of a   * further reduction in the level and
system                    general sales tax                       dispersion of import tariffs
* elimination of export duties and taxes . simplification of import taxation
- reduction in the number and
dispersion of tariff rates
Efficiency of public    . introduction of a rolling three-year   * annual review of budgetary           * annual PERs to advise government on public
expenditures              investment program                      allocations to priority sectors         resource management issues
* adoption of procurement code
. annual review of budgetary
allocations to non-wage expenditures
for priority sectors
Financial sector                                                                                        * restructure and privatize public banks and
insurance companies; strengthen regulations
governing supervision of financ. institutions;
reform judiciary system for enforcement of
financ. contracts and recovery of bad debts
(Financ. Sector and Public Entwrp. Restruct.
Operation, FY97)
Education and health                                            - introduction of regulatory framework  * strengthen sector policy formulation; improve
sectors                                                           for drug import, distribution and       quality of basic education and health care;
pricing                                 decentralize management responsibilities; and
reorient expenditures towards these sectors
. increase budgetary allocations for     (especially for non-wage items and across
primary health and education sectors   regions) (Health/Popul. (FY97) and Education
_____________________   _ ______________________ __________  ___________ _____________________  (FY98)  Sector  Invest.  Credits)



- 8 -
I. TOGO'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
23.    Thrust of the ERAC. Following the economic and fiscal collapse of the early 1990s, the main
objectives of the Government program, to be supported by the proposed operation, are to restore macro-
economic stability and support a strong private sector-led supply response to the devaluation of the CFA
franc. Restoring macroeconomic stability involves a series of measures in: (i) public finance - rebuilding
the tax base, containing expenditures and clearing arrears; and (ii) public enterprises - stepping up the
liquidation and privatization program to eliminate loss-making enterprises and shield viable enterprises
from pressures to finance Government deficits. Support to the private sector involves: (i) improving the
regulatory environment (price liberalization, revision of investment and labor codes); and (ii) increasing the
scope of private activity through privatization and abolition of remaining public sector monopolies in
commercial functions. Through targeting of minimum budgetary allocations to priority sectors, the program
would improve health, education and infrastructure services which are essential to long-term growth.
A. Macroeconomic Framework
24.   Implementation of the structural changes to be supported by the proposed credit and maintenance
of an appropriate macroeconomic framework, in particular a real depreciation of the currency, are essential
to achieving the growth objectives of the program. The review of the macroeconomic framework for second
tranche release would examine the consistency of overall macroeconomic performance with the PFP
objectives, particularly fiscal and monetary policies. The primary current budget deficit (i.e., excluding
interest obligations) which declined from the equivalent of 10 percent of GDP in 1993 to 1.6 percent of
GDP in 1995 is programmed to shift to a surplus by 1996. Domestic payment arrears would be eliminated
over the course of the program period depending on the availability of external financing. External payment
arrears are to be fully settled in 1996 through rescheduling, cash settlement, and the buy-back of
commercial bank debt.
25.    To reach these objectives, government revenue which fell from about 17 percent of GDP in 1991 to
10 percent in 1993, are projected to regain their pre-crisis level by 1996. The Government intends to
contain the growth of expenditures while improving their structure and composition (see para.34). Current
primary expenditures, as a share of GDP, which declined from the equivalent of 19 percent in 1993 to
about 16 percent in 1995 will be further contained to 13 percent of GDP in 1998. The growth of personnel
expenditures will be restrained and their share of revenues reduced from 75 percent in 1994 to 38 percent
by 1998.
26.    BCEAO monetary and credit policies will ensure that adequate resources are available for the
productive sectors while maintaining appropriate foreign reserves. Government indebtedness to the banking
system will be reduced to leave room for an adequate expansion of credit to the rest of the economy,
particularly to the private sector. The growth of broad money during the program period is projected to be
consistent with real GDP growth and an inflation target as measured by the GDP deflator of 7 percent in
1996 and 5 percent in 1997. The macroeconomic projections and requisite policies will continue to be
revised annually during the update of the PFP taking into account both the progress achieved in reducing
imbalances and the availability of financing.
B. Public Finances
27.    The Government's fiscal policy aims at: (i) improving internal resource mobilization and
simplifying the tax system while enhancing its neutrality and efficiency. Key measures include a reform of



- 9 -
domestic and extemal trade taxation, as well as broadening the tax base by limiting exonerations,
improving the efficiency of taxation of small-scale enterprises and strengthening tax administration to
improve collection; (ii) restructuring public expenditures by increasing allocations to primary education,
basic health services and infrastructure maintenance relative to other expenditures; and (iii) eliminating
foreign and domestic payment arrears.
Tax and Tariff Reform
28.   Past Adjustment Efforts. The Togolese taxation system was simplified in the 1980s. In 1984, a
general income tax replaced the schedular income taxes levied on different incomes at different rates. The
generalized sales tax, TGA replaced the previous tax on production and services, and a tax credit method
was adopted as a step towards a full-fledged value added tax (VAT). The three main taxes on imports were
consolidated into a transaction tax (TT) and the taxes levied on exports were eliminated. In 1990, new tax
and tariff systems were introduced. The TGA was applied on imports, domestic production and commercial
activities The formerly wide dispersion of tariffs was reduced to four rates ranging from 5 to 35 percent.
In 1993, a contract with a preshipment inspection company was signed to strengthen tax collection and
improve custom revenues.
29.    Outstanding Issues. With Government revenues in the range of 23 to 29 percent of GDP, Togo's
tax effort before the crisis was above the average for the Africa region. Over the past years, Government
revenues declined to the equivalent of 10 percent of GDP by 1993, less than half the pre-crisis level,
reflecting not only the sharp fall of output but also the severely weakened capacity to implement a tax
system that still remains complex and to combat fraud and the abuse of exonerations.
30.    Business taxation is heavily based on turnover leading to inefficiencies in production and
discouraging investment. Although the main business tax is the BIC (Berefice Industriel et Commercial), a
40 percent tax on corporate profits, most firms are actually subject to the presumptive minimum tax on
gross receipts (Impot Minimum Forfaitaire), which was applied at a rate varying between 1.5 and 3
percent, in the absence of profits. A compulsory contribution to the national investment fund, FNI (Fonds
National d'Investissement), was also levied at 0.5 percent of gross receipts. Until mid-1995, the system of
indirect taxation was characterized by a multiplicity of rates and widespread exonerations. The
generalized sales tax, TGA, was characterized by many rates (5) and numerous exonerations granted on
commodities (more than 500 products) and to firms through the investment code and the special
conventions. With regard to external trade, a specific tax was applied to some products (alcoholic
beverages, tobacco products, rice, sugar and "wax" fabrics) in addition to the four-rate tariff (Droit Fiscal),
the TGA and the statistical tax.
31.    1995-1998 Reform Program. During the program period, the Government intends to continue to
simplify the tax system and broaden the tax base by reforming both business and indirect taxation. The net
effect of its reform efforts is expected to be an increase of the tax revenue ratio from 10 percent of GDP in
1993 to 17 percent of GDP by 1998. As a result of the measures introduced so far, Government revenues
reached 15 percent of GDP in 1995. Regarding business taxation, small businesses were submitted in
1995 to a simple withholding tax at customs or at the time of purchases from wholesalers. The withholding
tax is applied at a 3 percent rate of the value of goods purchased and credited against income or profit tax
liability. For small businesses (who do not file for income/profit taxes) the withholding is final. In a second
phase, all small enterprises will be subject to a single tax on business income which will replace all current
business taxes (1996). The Government intends to eliminate the presumptive minimum tax after
consolidation of the recently introduced VAT reform (para. 32). As a preliminary step in the 1995 finance



- 10 -
law, the rates of the presumptive minimum tax were revised downwards. The compulsory contribution to
the FNI was de-facto eliminated in 1995, at the request of the representatives of the private sector who
were associated with the technical discussions of the proposed ERAC. The measure was then formally
adopted in the 1996 Finance Law.
32.    Regarding indirect taxation, a generalized VAT characterized by a limited number of exemptions,
a simple system of deductions, a threshold and two rates (18 and 7 percent) replaced the TGA on July 1,
1995. In line with agreements reached in the context of the discussions of the proposed ERAC, the
dispersion of import duties was reduced from four rates ranging from 5-35 percent to three rates ranging
from 5-20 percent and the TFR (Taxe du Fonds Routier) was consolidated with the taxes on petroleum
products. The use of reference values for custom valuation was eliminated and the specific taxes on imports
of rice, sugar and wax fabrics were abolished in June 1995. The non-tariff barriers (NTBs) on import of
cement, bread-flour, iron rods and corrugated iron, granted through special conventions were abolished in
August 1995. The above-mentioned products were submitted to ad-valorem taxes within the tariff
nomenclature. With technical assistance from the IMF, the Government implemented a series of measures
in 1994 to strengthen tax administration. This includes the creation of a special unit responsible for tax
assessment and collection for major taxpayers, and the creation of a single taxpayer registry with
assignment of a single identification number for all tax purposes. The Government has requested additional
technical assistance to improve customs administration.
Restructuring Public Expenditures
33.   In view of the still low level of domestic savings, the slow pace of resumption of external
assistance, the severity of the economic and financial problems faced by the country following the political
turmoil of 1992-93, and the constraints to radically improving resource mobilization in the short term,
strong pressures are exerted on scarce budgetary resources. Priority for budgetary allocations should focus
on: (i) clearing of Government arrears to public and private enterprises - in view of their importance for
economic recovery, special attention would be given to the public utilities to allow a rapid return to
financial viability; and (ii) adequate allocations to social sector expenditures and infrastructure
maintenance.
34.    1995-1998 Reform Program. Given the targeted fiscal deficits and the projected level of foreign
financing, the stock of external payment arrears (including arrears to the London Club) will be eliminated
by end-1996, while domestic arrears will be cleared during the program period in line with the availability
of external aid. Net domestic bank financing will be reduced in 1995-96 and the repayment of the
exceptional financing obtained in 1993 from public enterprises will be spread over 1995-98. A reform of
budgetary procedures is underway with IMF assistance with special emphasis on administrative procedures
for monitoring and controlling Government spending. In particular, strict limits will be imposed on recourse
to the simplified expenditure procedure which led to abuses in the past, and the number of disbursements
regularized ex-post will be significantly reduced. No post devaluation wage adjustment was granted in
1994 and 1995. As a share of current outlays, personnel expenditures will be maintained at about 42
percent during the program period, down from 45 percent in previous years. By contrast, the share of other
primary expenditures is projected to increase from about 38 percent of current outlays in 1994 to 45
percent in 1998.
35.    The Government has undertaken an update of cross debts and arrears in the public sector at large
and established a payment plan. Priority for settlement of Government domestic arrears will be given to the
public utilities (water and electricity) and the private sector (see Annex G page 16: Summary Table -
Arrears Settlement Plan). Settlement of the debts and arrears according to the priorities agreed upon



- 11 -
during negotiations will be condition for the release of the second tranche. Following the disruptions in
services provision and the damage to social infrastructure caused by the recent crisis, the Government will
increase its spending in the health and education sectors. In 1996, the share of Government expenditure,
excluding debt service and foreign-financed investment, on health will reach 10.9 percent up from 8.4
percent in 1995. This share will increase to 11.6 percent in 1997 and 12.6 percent in 1998. The share of
government expenditure on education, likewise excluding debt service and foreign-financed investment, will
increase from 26.4 percent in 1995 to 28.3 percent in 1996, and will, thereafter, rise by the equivalent of I
percentage point a year. Expenditure will be oriented towards rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and
deliverv of essential services in the area of primary education and basic health care. The minimum
budgetary allocation for routine road maintenance which amounted to CFA franc 1.5 billion in 1995 will
increase to about CFA franc 2 billion in 1996, and CFA 2.5 billion in 1997, to cover routine maintenance
and counterpart funds for periodic maintenance expenditures. The Government has adopted a revised
three-year rolling PIP for 1996-98 on the basis of discussions with the main donors and a final review
conducted by IDA. The PIP addresses the rehabilitation needs of Togo's physical and social infrastructures
and gives priority to investments in social sectors and in sectors such as infrastructure and agriculture that
are key to private sector development. Implementation of the budget share allocations in 1996, agreement
on the 1997 budget including budgetary allocations to priority sectors, and agreement on a three-year
rolling PIP for 1997-99 would constitute conditions for release of the second tranche.
C. Public Enterprises
36.   Past Adjustment Efforts.  Considerable progress was achieved in restructuring the public
enterprise sector under earlier adjustment operations. From an initial portfolio of 78 enterprises, 30 were
privatized or liquidated during the 1980s. Of the 18 enterprises targeted for divestiture under SAC IV, 5
were liquidated and 2 have been offered for sale. To improve its ability to monitor the performance of the
firms remaining in the state portfolio, the Ministry of Industry and State Enterprises (MISE) introduced a
new organizational structure and a management information system (SIG) in 1990 which was gradually
extended to all PEs. Legislation establishing a new institutional and regulatory framework for PEs was
enacted in 1990 and the statutes of the enterprises revised in line with the provisions of the law. All PEs
were subjected to the normal fiscal regime. In 1991, performance contracts between the Government and
the public utilities were signed. A study on cross-debts between the government and PEs and among PEs
was completed in 1992 and has been updated to reflect developments in 1993. Privatization legislation was
adopted in 1994.
37.    Outstanding Issues. While the impact of the political turmoil of the past years has damaged the
financial situation of the public enterprise sector as a whole, selected PEs require urgent action in view of
their importance for the economy and the welfare of the population. These are the mining company (OTP),
the pharmaceutical company (TOGOPHARMA), and the public utilities for water (RNET) and electricity
(CEET).
38.   Phosphate. With its output accounting for 5 percent of GDP and its revenues from phosphate sales
for about 40 percent of domestic exports, OTP is a key enterprise for the Togolese economy. After its
nationalization in 1974, the company kept a competent operating management and was highly profitable for
over a decade. By the end of the 1980s it was operating at full production capacity and exporting more than
3 million tons of phosphate rock a year. It rapidly became, however, the main source of Government
financing for extrabudgetary expenditures. Between 1989 and 1992, OTP's advances to Government
amounted to about CFA franc 43 billion (or the equivalent of 10 percent of the 1992 GDP). Under the
combined effect of a variety of factors including the overvaluation of the currency and difficult world
market conditions, production fell from 3 million tons per year in the late-1980s to about 2 million by the



- 12 -
early-1990s while sales became increasingly concentrated with a small number of customers. At the same
time, the heavy drain exerted by the government on the company's resources led to a sharp deterioration of
the company's financial situation. OTP started incurring large operating losses, severely curtailing
maintenance and investment expenditures, accumulating arrears to suppliers and resorting, increasingly, to
short-term financing from commercial banks. In 1993, the company adopted a set of measures to reduce its
costs including a 30 percent cut of the wage bill. Under the impact of the devaluation and a strong recovery
of production and exports, OTP's financial situation improved in 1994-95. The company has substantially
reduced the arrears to suppliers and has consolidated recent advances to Government against tax liabilities.
It has reached an agreement with the local banks on the restructuring of its CFA franc 30 billion overdraft
converting half of it into long term debt.
39.    Despite its restored ability to generate positive operational income, OTP will still have difficulties
meeting its financial obligations as well as necessary maintenance and investment expenditures, unless it
expands output and can be effectively shielded from forced lending to the government. Opening OTP to
private participation would alleviate many of the problems currently faced by the company. It would shield
the company from pressures to finance government deficits. Potential investors could secure new markets
for the company. Finally, a substantial injection of fresh capital coupled with increased revenues would
allow adequate maintenance and investment expenditures as well as regular servicing of financial
obligations.
40.    Pharmaceuticals. TOGOPHARMA had a monopoly on the import and distribution of drugs until
1991. Its bloated administrative structure resulted in high operating costs and prices of medicines to final
consumers. The audit of the company carried out in 1991 recommended its liquidation, liberalization of
wholesale activities, privatization of the drugstores, transfer of sale points located within their walls to
public hospitals, sale or lease of the remaining profitable retail points, and closure of those operating at a
loss. In order to reduce the excessively high costs of drugs, the Government abolished the monopoly on
drugs import and distribution in 1991. However, it has authorized entry to only two new importers,
allegedly in view of the small size of the Togolese market. Thus, the sector remained characterized by
heavy government intervention. Its effective liberalization did not take place due to the absence of a
regulatory framework for drugs import and distribution defining clearly the rules for entering and the
conditions for practicing the profession. Following the generai strike and the realignment of the parity, the
situation of TOGOPHARMA deteriorated further and its working capital is insufficient to buy drugs. In
addition, the current pricing structure for drugs, characterized by a proportional markup over import prices
favors import of high price (specialty) at the expense of low price (generic) drugs.
41.    Public Utilities. While the operating performance of the water utility, RNET, was adequate before
as well as during the political crisis, its financial viability is seriously jeopardized by the accumulation of
arrears (mainly public) on water bills and the low level of water tariffs. The present cost recovery policy is
inadequate and inefficient. The average level of tariff cannot cover the financial obligations of RNET (i.e.,
cash operating expenditures and debt service obligations). This has been compounded by the impact of the
devaluation and by Government non-payment of its water bills which include consumption of water at
standpipes. Togo is the only West African country where water supplied by standpipes (35 percent of total
urban water consumption) is free of charge to consumers. As of end-1994, public arrears amounted to
some CFA franc 4.9 billion, the equivalent of 16 months of sales. RNET had stopped paying its suppliers
and its creditors, limiting its cash expenditures to the payment of wages and key supplies. Efforts are
underway to collect private customers arrears accumulated during the crisis (CFA franc 3.1 billion), but
this will not be sufficient to restore the cash flow and the financial viability of the company.



- 13 -
42.    Responsibilities in the power sector in Togo are divided between two entities. The regional entity
for Togo and Benin (CEB). is a wholesale supplier of electricity that it purchases from Ivory Coast and the
Volta River Authonrty in Ghana, for sale to the national power utilities of the two countries. CEET is
responsible for the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in Togo. Like the water utility.
CEET did not interrupt provision of services to its customers during the three years of turmoil and its
financial viability is seriously jeopardized bv the low level of tariffs it charges and by the accumulation of
arrears. By end-1994, customers' arrears to CEET amounted to the equivalent of 26 months of sales or
CFA franc 29 billion of which 60 percent from government and public enterprises. CEET in turn faces
difficulties paving for its power purchases from CEB towards which it had accumulated about CFA franc 7
billion of arrears by end- 1993.
43.   1995-1998 Reform Program. In the context of the PFP program, the Government has resumed
implementation of the reform of its parastatal sector. The objectives are to: (i) speed the return to financial
viability of the public utilities through the settling of public sector arrears and revision of rates; (ii)
accelerate the liquidation of nonviable public enterprises; (iii) increase the scope for private sector activity
through privatization, and (iv) enhance the efficiency of enterprises remaining in the Government portfolio
through restructuring.
44.    The Government intends to divest from 25 enterprises spanning various areas of activity and
including 16 enterprises it fully owns; 3 in which it holds a majority of the shares and 6 in which it holds a
minority stake (see Annex E page 5 of 5). Preparatory work for the implementation of this large program is
underway. Privatization strategies are being prepared for the complex privatizations (such as hotels, palm
oil industry and maritime transport). Asset valuations are underway for all the enterprises in which the
Government owns a minority stake and which will be privatized through sale of shares. To assure wide
access to essential drugs and medicines, the government is restructuring the pharmaceutical sector and is
now embarking on a policy of development of generic drugs. It will establish with the support of the donor
community a purchasing center for generic drugs to ensure their regular supply. TOGOPHARMA will be
restructured to fit this purpose. The Government is also revising its outdated and complex pharmaceutical
law. A regulatory framework for drug imports and distribution was adopted on March 18, 1996. The
regulatory framework defines the conditions for entering, and rules for practicing the profession, while
ensuring competition among wholesalers and the safety of consumers. A pricing structure for drugs that
encourages the sale of generics was submitted to IDA. Its adoption will be a condition for second tranche
release.
45.    With respect to OTP, the Government will offer for sale 40 percent of its shares in the company to
private investors and has contracted the services of an international investment advisor to assist in the
operation. The legal and technical feasibility of different privatization options will be assessed by the
government and its advisor and discussed with IDA. The option to be retained should ensure management
autonomy and full transparency of the company as well as a substantial capital infusion. The key steps of
the privatization process are: (i) negotiation and signing of the advisory contract with the investment
adviser; (ii) preparation of a privatization strategy to be agreed with IDA;  (iii) preparation of an
information memorandum incorporating the agreement on the restructuring; (iv) distribution of the
memorandum and invitation for proposals to potential investors; (v) evaluation of proposals followed by
negotiations with those submitting the best proposals; and (vi) conclusion of the deal. Bringing to the point
of sale no less than 40 percent of Government shares in OTP will be a condition for the release of the
second tranche. Bringing to the point of sale is defined as evaluation of proposals and inviting for good
faith negotiations those submitting the best proposals.



- 14 -
46.    To facilitate implementation of the public enterprise reform program and mitigate its negative
social impact, the Government has introduced adequate allocations for staff severance packages in the 1996
budget. In order to restore the financial viability of the public utilities, water and electricity tariffs were
increased by 15 and 20 percent respectively in October 1995. Implementation of further tariff increases in
the order of 10 percent for water and 15 percent for electricity, in 1996, is a condition for second tranche
release. The exact level of tariff increase needed in 1996 will take into account the effects of restructuring
efforts underway and will be assessed in concertation with IDA. With respect to water, a user charge
system for standpipes will be introduced in 1996. The recoverv mechanism will be designed in the context
of an IDA-financed water project under preparation.
D. Strengthening the Incentive and Regulatory Framework
Agricultural Incentives
47.   Past Adjustment Efforts. In the context of the adjustment programs of the 1980s, agricultural
exports and imports of all products to and from member countries of the Economic Community of West
African States (ECOWAS) were fully liberalized, reversing the long-standing emphasis of limiting food
exports to ensure food self-sufficiency. With the exception of export crops, prices of all other agricultural
products were freed. A pricing system aimed at linking domestic to world prices was introduced for export
crops (coffee, cotton and cocoa) in 1988. Under this system, a guaranteed price announced at the beginning
of each crop year is received by the farmers at harvest. Depending on actual world market developments,
farmers would receive a supplement after payment of taxes and marketing costs. At the same time, the
monopoly of the marketing board, (OPAT), on the marketing of all crops was reduced to a monopoly on
cotton, coffee and cocoa. With regard to the policy environment, the situation in the export crop sector has
evolved over the years to allow for greater private sector involvement. Private sector operators, NGOs and
producer cooperatives, are active in transport and internal marketing, and are beginning to assume
responsibility for input distribution and credit provision. Private investment in a cotton ginning plant in
1994 has increased the country's ginning capacity by 50 percent.
48.    Outstanding Issues. Despite a greater private sector involvement, the policy environment for
export crops remains dominated by the public sector. In recent years, the growth of traditional exports has
been impaired by the overvalued level of the CFA franc, high marketing costs due to an inefficient internal
marketing arrangement and OPAT's monopoly on exports. Intemal marketing of coffee and cocoa by the
private sector was, until recently, strictly regulated by OPAT under a system of licenses and fixed profit
margins which gave traders exclusive rights to operate in specific geographic zones. Although the extemal
marketing tasks were carried out satisfactorily, OPAT's overall performance is poor due to high direct costs
(handling, storage, etc.), excessive staff, high overhead costs, and the system of administered prices which
did not provide any incentive to improve performance.
49.    With regard to cotton, until recently, the subsector had to bear two sets of overhead and taxation at
the level of the two agencies (the marketing board OPAT and the cotton/ginning company SOTOCO). As a
result, no after tax profits were generated and no supplement was paid to the farmers in recent years. In
1994, the Govenmment introduced, on an exceptional basis, an export tax of CFA franc 72 per kg
(representing an 11 percent implicit tax rate) which again limited producer prices to those announced at the



- 15 -
beginning of the crop season. Finally, although the producer price has been increased following the
devaluation, producers have received a lower share of the f.o.b. price1
50.   An operational audit carried out in 1992 recommended transfer of cotton marketing from OPAT to
the cotton ginning company SOTOCO, liquidation of OPAT with the creation of a small entity to handle
the marketing of coffee and cocoa. To improve the efficiency of cotton marketing, a bill transferring the
export of cotton from OPAT to SOTOCO was approved by the National Assembly in September 1994.
The same law, however, gave SOTOCO a de jure monopoly on all stages of cotton marketing and
processing. As it is the main provider of credit, inputs and extension services to cotton farmers, SOTOCO,
for credit and cost recovery purposes, remains the only purchaser of seed cotton from farmers. SOTOCO
intends to use the services of the private ginnery for a fee.
51.    1995-1998 Reform Program. To ensure a strong supply response of the export crop sector to the
devaluation, the Togolese authorities have agreed to liberalize their internal and external marketing
systems. In March 1996, the Government adopted a decree abolishing OPAT's monopoly on the export of
coffee and cocoa, eliminating the system of licensing and fixed profit margins and liberalizing the prices of
these products. OPAT will be restructured into a mixed enterprise with majonty private ownership and will
export coffee and cocoa in competition with other private operators.
52.    Implementation of the transfer of cotton-lint export from OPAT to SOTOCO was achieved in
March 1996. This transfer is expected to improve the efficiency of the cotton subsector, notably by
streamlining its taxation and reducing external marketing costs. In order to increase rural incomes, the
Government has agreed on the distribution of 50 percent of after-tax profits of SOTOCO to cotton
producers. With regard to the policy environment in the cotton subsector, the Government wants to allow
for greater involvement of the private sector but wants to proceed with caution. Cotton is a vulnerable crop
whose output levels depend critically on the timely availability of inputs (fertilizer and pesticides). Cotton
production requires, therefore, a solid and stable organization of input and credit provision. In this context,
a well thought out liberalization process is needed to ensure availability of critical inputs and credit,
otherwise cotton output may drop significantly. The Government wants to explore liberalization schemes
that would involve farmers organizations as key players. Under an upcoming agricultural services
operation, which will support the reorganization of agricultural services and a strengthening of rural credit
to ensure timely provision of critical inputs and services to farmers, the government will prepare an action
plan to further liberalize the cotton subsector and improve its efficiency. Several studies supported by IDA
and other donors are underway. The action plan w>ill include the liberalization of the export of cotton-lint as
a first step. The action plan will also revise the producer price determination mechanism to increase the
share of the export price to be received by producers, revise internal marketing mechanisms to foster
competition and specify the conditions and timing for the implementation of the new arrangements.
Distribution of 50 percent of SOTOCO's after-tax profits to cotton farmers and liberalization of cotton-lint
export will be conditions for release of the second tranche.
Although, the producer price for seed cotton has increased by about 60 percent between the 1992/93 and the 1994/95 crop
season, the ratio of the fiber equivalent of the seed cotton producer price to the f o.b. price has declined from 56 percent
for the 1992/93 to 43 percent for the 1994/95 crop season.



- 16 -
Non-agricultural Incentives
53.    Past Adjustment Efforts. Under the 1980's adjustment programs, a series of measures focused on
relaxing the regulatory framework, promoting exports, and improving the efficiency of Togo's industrial
sector. Export and import licensing was abolished, the import monopoly of the state trading company
(SONACOM) was eliminated and the company liquidated. Price controls and fixed profit margins, which
were pervasive throughout the economy, were lifted for most manufacturing goods. The Government
abolished requirements for the periodic renewal of investment permits, and introduced a new investment
code in 1989. To promote exports, an export processing zone ( EPZ) was created.
54.   Outstanding Issues. After substantial progress in liberalizing prices during the 1980s (about 150
prices were decontrolled), little progress was made thereafter. By end-1994, the prices of six domestic
products remained controlled (cement, plastic pipes, wheat-flour, iron rods, corrugated iron, beer and soft
drinks); eight imported products remained subject to fixed profit margins (sugar, rice, vegetable oil, milk,
tomato paste, LPG (domestic gas), and sewing machines).
55.    The current incentive and regulatory system involves a plethora of objectives and instruments. Its
implcmentation is characterized by a high level of discretion and results in discrimination across sectors
and firms and reduced economic efficiency. Fiscal advantages are granted under special conventions and
the investment code. They are often maintained beyond the legal duration of tne benefits. Labor legislation
is complex and hiring and firing decisions remain constrained.
56.    1994/95-1996/97Reform Program. In July 1995 the Government eliminated all price control and
profit margin regulations, except for drugs and petroleum products. Revision of the labor code and its
implementing decrees are underway. The main objective of the revisions is to reduce the legal constraints to
labor flexibility and employment creation. A first set of revisions were submitted to IDA for comments and
the final version will be reviewed by IDA before its submission to Parliament. The Government intends to
streamline the incentive system and simplify the investment code. Under the 1995 finance law, the
Government has put an end to all the fiscal incentives that had been maintained beyond the expiration of
their legal duration. Special conventions will not be renewed. The Government intends to limit the content
of the investment code to the general dispositions relating to non-discrimination, guarantees and arbitration.
To the extent that some fiscal incentives should be maintained, they will be incorporated in the tax code, in
the areas of depreciation. treatment of losses, taxation of capital goods, and temporary admissions and
drawback system for import duties on intermediate inputs for export goods. The objective is to make the
incentive system neutral across sectors and firms, automatic and transparent (easilv enforceable to
eliminate abuses and fraud).
111. THE PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A. ERAC Program and Link to CAS
57.    The proposed operation is a primary instrument of the assistance strategy in laying the
macroeconomic conditions for a rapid recovery of the economv and completing the structural reforms
initiated under previous adjustment operations. It would provide budgetary support to help the Government
resume normal operation, deepen structural reforms and implement accompanying measures in order to
benefit from an increase in competitiveness following the CFA franc realignment. It tackles the most
sensitive item on the reform agenda (private participation in OTP) and addresses the country's remaining
broad-based reform issues. In addition, the operation facilitates a transition to sectoral adjustment lending
In the key arcas of finance and public enterprise restructuring and to sector investment lending in



-17 -
agriculture. Following the restructuring of OTP's commercial debt (para. 38) and after the issue of
commercial banks exposure to OTP has been fully settled in the context of the company's privatization, a
financial sector/PE restructuring operation will complete the reform of the PE sector and focus on
restructuring the banking and insurance sectors. An agricultural services project, including a pilot rural
credit component, currently under preparation, will strengthen agricultural services and promote the
development of private (individual and farmer cooperatives) rural production and marketing activities. In
particular, the project will support the preparation and implementation of an action plan for further
liberalization of the cotton subsector (para. 52). Finally, the CAS lending triggers have been built around
the most important and difficult reforms tackled under the proposed ERAC. Hence, progress in meeting
public enterprise privatization, in particular OTP, and improvement in the regulatory and incentive
framework for private activities will determine the future lending level.
B. Poverty Impact
58.    Sustained broad-based growth is a requisite for effective poverty alleviation in Togo. Following
the realignment of the parity, higher investment and competitiveness gains are expected to stimulate growth
in employment and per capita income. In particular, the export and import-competing sectors of the
economy will benefit from higher producer prices and higher profit margins in the short to medium term.
59.     Specific measures of the proposed ERAC are designed to speed this process. The implementation
of the transfer of part of SOTOCO's after tax profits to cotton producers, the progressive elimination of
government monopoly on the export of coffee and cocoa and the liberalization of their internal marketing
system to allow for free entrance are expected to have an important positive impact on farmers' income.
The revision of the labor code to allow for greater labor flexibility and in particular the removal of
restrictions on hiring and firing should speed the reallocation of human resources from the non tradable to
the tradable sectors and strengthen the supply response to the devaluation in the manufacturing and service
sectors. The transitory negative impact on employment and income of the privatization and restructuring of
public enterprises will be mitigated by adequate budgetary allocations for the necessary severance
packages.
60.     The annual review of budgetary allocations to the health and education sectors combined with
specific support provided by the IDA-financed sectoral adjustment operation for health and the education
rehabilitation project will allow the restoration of an appropriate level of social services to the population.
The Government has agreed to increase infrastructure expenditures to the more isolated villages in order to
improve their accessibility and therefore the ability of their inhabitants to sell and buy goods at more
competitive prices. In addition, the revision of the price structure for drugs and their import and distribution
systems will help contain the cost increase induced by the devaluation and improve access of the most
vulnerable groups to low cost generic drugs.
C. Credit Amount and Proposed Conditionality
61.    An amount equivalent to US$50 mnillion is proposed for this credit, which would represent 23
percent of Togo's identified adjustment and budgetary financing (including IMF) for 1996-98. The policy
measures related to this operation are outlined in the section on the Government's program above and are
detailed in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex G). Release of the second tranche would
depend upon satisfactory review of overall performance under the adjustment program, including
maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic framework, agreement on any additional actions required to
achieve the program objectives, and fulfillment of the specific conditions listed below. The Letter of
Development Policy would form the basis for the performance review. In addition to satisfactory



- 18 -
implementation of the overall program specified in the Letter of Development Policy and its attached
matrix, the following measures are proposed as specific conditions for second tranche release:
*  Adoption of a 1997 PIP and preparation of a three-year rolling PIP for 1997-99 acceptable to IDA,
*  Budget execution in line with agreed expenditure targets (para. 35) during 1996, and agreement on the
1997 budget based on the budgetary allocations specified in the Letter of Development Policy,
* Settlement of Government arrears according to the priorities agreed upon during negotiations;
*  Transfer 50 percent of SOTOCO's after tax profits to the farmers starting from the 1995/96 crop
season (para. 52);
*  Liberalization of cotton-lint export;
*  Adoption of a price structure for drugs and pharmaceutical products acceptable to IDA;
*  Second increase of water and electricity tariffs to levels to be agreed with IDA;
* Bring to the point of sale no less than 40 percent of Government shares in OTP.
D. Procurement, Disbursement, Financial Management and Auditing
62.    The proposed credit would be disbursed in two tranches of SDR 19.28 million for the first and
SDR 12.92 million for the second. The first tranche would be released at effectiveness and the second
would be released following a review indicating satisfactory progress in implementing the program as a
whole, including the maintenance of an adequate macroframework, and upon fulfillment of the specific
second tranche release conditions listed above.
63.    Credit proceeds would be used to finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of general
imports of goods, excluding goods financed by bilateral agencies, luxury goods, military equipment and
other goods specifically prohibited in a negative list defined under the Standard International Trade
Classification (SITC) or equivalent classification. Preshipment inspection for price, quantity and quality
verification has been in place since 1994.
64.    The borrower will open an account in BCEAO Lome. Upon Bank notification of tranche release
for each tranche, proceeds of the loan will be deposited by the Bank in this account at the request of the
borrower. If after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to
finance items imported from non-members countries or goods and services in the standard negative list), the
Bank will require the Borrower to either: (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes;
or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed
amount of the loan. Although routine audit of the account will not be required, the Bank reserves the right
to require it.
65.    An Interministerial Commission chaired by the Prime Minister and comprising the Ministries of
Economy and Finance, Planning, Rural Development, Environment and Tourism, Commerce and
Transport, Industry and Public Enterprises, Labor, Civil Service and Social Affairs, and Health will be in
charge of the monitoring and implementation of the program of reforms supported by the proposed credit.
The Ministry of Planning will report progress on the program to IDA every three months. The Ministry of
Finance will provide IDA with quarterly reports on budgetary execution.
E. Benefits and Risks
66.   Benefits. Implementation of the program of reforms under the proposed credit would support
restoration of intemal and extemal financial equilibria through its impact on the budget and extemal trade.



- 19 -
The proposed measures to improve economic incentives, in particular in the cash crop sector would also
have a positive impact on economic growth and poverty reduction. The revision of the investment code, the
reform of external trade and the removal of price controls and non-tariff barriers would help establish a
more neutral system of incentives and stimulate efficient production. The operation would also ensure the
resumption of provision of key health, education and infrastructure services which are expected to be
particularly beneficial for the poorest parts of the population.
67.    Risks. There are two major risks related to the proposed operation. First, the proposed operation
faces the risk of a deterioration in the political and social situation preventing implementation of the
program. The President, Prime Minister and Head of Parliament each represent rival parties and the
democratic institutions mandated in the constitution are not yet in place. Factors favoring political stability
include the representation of the opposition in the Government, the return of the largest opposition party to
the parliament, an immense fatigue with political strife within the population, and the strong recovery of the
economy in 1994-95. Strong economic growth, improved provision of social services and the resulting
improvement in welfare should help alleviate tensions and reduce the risk of deterioration. By supporting
such a recovery program, the proposed operation would help mitigate this risk.
68.     Second, vested interests benefiting from the existing policy environment will attempt to block
implementation of policies designed to increase competition and reduce rents such as the reform of the
incentive framework and the privatization of public enterprises. To counter these risks the operation was
front loaded with actions taken before Board presentation (annex F). Its implementation will be closely
monitored.  Sector investment projects will also provide financial and analytical support to the
implementation of key reforms.  Moreover the Government knows that the sustained and timely
implementation of the ERAC reforms are in themselves the trigger mechanisms for future lending - in
particular for proposed future adjustment and investment operations in the financial and agricultural
sectors.
IV. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IFC and MIGA
69.   IFC's current portfolio consists of investments in food sector (Ducros/spices), textile (Togotex),
and agribusiness (STPM/fishing), with a total commitment of US$2.0 million, of which US$0.2 million are
in loans and US$1.8 million in equity participation. IFC could play an active role in the Togolese
privatization effort in the future bv investing in privatized/restructured enterprises or/and advising
Government and investors on restructuring operations. Togo has been a member of MIGA since 1988.
MIGA has not vet completed an operation in the country but it has received a preliminary application for
insurance coverage.
V. COLLABORATION WITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS
70.   IDA staff have worked closely with the IMF in policy discussions with the Government duding
joint missions, in particular, for the preparation of the PFP. A three-year arrangement under the ESAF in
an amount equivalent to SDR 65.16 million, and the first annual arrangement thereunder in an amount
equivalent to SDR 21.72 million were approved by the IMF Board in September 1994. The second year
arrangement was approved on December 20, 1995. IDA staff have also maintained an active dialogue with
multilateral agencies and bilateral donors throughout the political crisis in Togo and during the recovery
phase. A UNDP round table is under preparation to assist Government efforts in foreign aid mobilization
and coordination.



- 20 -
VI. RECOMMENDATION
71.    1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Gautam Kaji
Attachments
Washington. D.C.
April 2, 1996



Annex A
Togo                                                                Page I of 2
Most Same region/income group            Ver
Latest singk year            recent         Sub-                      higher
unit of                                        esnmate      Saharan          Lown        income
Indicator                                         measure              1970-75       198085        1988-93        .4frica      income         group
Priority Poverty Indicators
POVERTY
Upper poveny line                                 local curr
Headcount index                                  % of pop.                                                                         19
Lower poverty linc                                local curr.
Headcount index                                  % of pop.
GNP per capita                                      liSS                    280           240          340           520           380         1.590
SHORT TERM INCOMiE INDICATORS
Unskilled urban wagcs                             local curr
Unskilled rural wages
Rural terms of trade
Consumer price index                              1987=100                   42            96           101
Lower income
Food'                                                                       27
Urban                                                                      ..           97            92
Rural
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure on basic social services       % of GDP                                              5.5
Gross enrollment ratios
Primary                                        % schoolagepop.               99            93           III           67           108           104
Male                                                                       130           114           134           74           116
Female                                                                      68            71            87           60           101
Mortality
Infant mortality                             per thou. live births       129.0         105.0          83.4          93.1         63.1          39.0
Under S mortality                                                             .            ..        135.0         172.3        101.4          61.5
Immunization
Measles                                         0'o age group                ..           ..          61.0          49.9         87.3          77.6
DPT                                                                          ..          9 0          73.0          51.9         89.9          82.2
Child malnutrition (under-5)                                                  ..           ..          24.4            ..          40.3
Life expectancy
Total                                              years                    45            50            55           52            62            67
Female advantage                                                           3.2           3.4           3.6           3.3          2.1           5.9
Total ferility rate                            births per woman             6.6           6.6           6.5           6.2           3.6           2.9
Maternal mortality rate                      per 100,000 live births          ..718
Supplementary Poverty Indicators
Expenditures on social security               % of total goVt exp.            ..          5.2
Social security coverage                      % econ. active pop.             ..           ..            ..
Access to safe water: total                       % of pop.                16.0          46.7          70.7            ..         67.0
Urban                                                                   49.0          68.0         100.0            ..          78.7
Rural                                                                    10.0         41.0          60.9            ..          62.0
Acces to health care                                                          ..           ..            ..
Popmulationvgroa   t perate           l  GNP per capita growth rate                                Development diamondb
6+     ((annual average, percent)                           (annual average, penent)                              Life expectancy
21                          1                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GNP     Gross
per                              Iprimary
-2  =31                                      j      capita                          emnollment
1970-75       1980-85       1988-93                 1970-75      1980-85       198 |-93                    Access to safe water
O  Togo                                                                                                        Togo
-    Low-income                                                                                                 Low-income
a. See the technical notes, p.387. b. The devclopment diamond, based on four key indicators, shows the average level of development in the country
compared with its income group. See the introduction.



Annex A
Togo                                                            Page 2 of 2
Moat Seame regiWn.incomse group        Nexct
Latest single yea          recent         SuX-                    higher
Unit Of                                     etimate      Sakarmx         Low-       income
indicator                                       measure             1976-75      195085       1985-93       Aftice       income        groulp
Resources and Expenditures
HUMAN RESOU'RCES
Population (mre-1993)                           thousands             2.285        3,028        3,885      558,978    3,091,764    1.096.665
Age dependency ratio                              ratio                0.90         0.93         0.95         0.94         0.67         0.69
Urban                                           % of pop.               16.3        26.5         29.9         29.8          27.6         54.7
Population growth rate                          annual %                2.5          2.9          3.2           2.9          1.9          1.6
Urban                                              '6.5                             5.7          4.8          5.0          3.9           2.9
Labor rorce (15-64)                             thousands               998        1,244        1,503      229,480    1,442,452      459,196
Agriculture                                  0/ of labor force           75           73            .
Industry                                                                  9           10            .
Female                                              '39                               37           36           36           33           3 1
Fetnales per 100 males
Urban                                           number                   .
Rural
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                          thou. sq. kmn           56.79        56.79        56.79    24,273.63    39,091.96    40,622.67
Density                                      pop. per sq. kmn         40.24        53.32        66.25        22.37         77.60        26.52
Agricultural land                             % of land area          44.13        44.75        45.21        52.54         52.82        39.61
Change in agricultural land                     annual %               0.21         0.21          0.00         0.06         0.03        -0.13
Agricultural land under irrigation                 %0.25                            0.29          0.28         0.83        12.02        12.66
Forests and woodland                           thou. sq. km              ..        15.71         13.53     5,323.14     7,154.40     5,953.72
Deforestation (net)                             antnual %                 ...1.49
INCOME
Household income
Share of top 20% of households               % of income                 .            ..
Share of bottom 40% of households                                        .            ..
Share of bottom 20% of households                                        .            ..
EXPENDITURE
Food                                            % of GDP                   .                      33.7
Staples                                                                 I.            .           1.8
Meat, fish, mik, cheese, eggs                                            ...11.9
Cereal imports                              thou, metric tonnes           2           57           63        13,157      34,420        66,221
Food aid in cereas                                 1.I1                               23            3         5,079        8,334        5,477
Food production per capita                     1987 =100                126          106          113          101           113         101
Fertilizer consumption                            kg/ha                  1.0          4.0          5.0          4.6         59.9         42.0
Shameof agricultweuinGDP                        %ofGDP                 26.6         33.7          48.6         16.3         26.3         1 5.7
Housing                                         % of GDP                  ...                       .S
Average household size                     petmons per household        6.0...
Urban
Fixed investment: housing                       %ofGDP                                 ..5.0
Fuel and power                                 % of GDP                                ..3.5
Energy consumption per capita                kg of oil equiv.            60           49           47          257          364         1,595
Households with electricity
Urban                                       % of households                           ..
Rural
Transport and conmnmunication                   % of(GDP                   ...2.5
Fixed investment: transport equipnmnst                                     .                       5.0
Total road length                               thsou.kin                 7            7            8
INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Health
Population per physician                         pesace              28,938        8,725            *..                        .        3,277
Population per nusue                                                  1,592        1,239            .
Population per hospital bod                        -701                               ..665                   1,269  .     1,016         604
Oral rehydyration therapy (umdar-5)            % ofcame                   ..                       33           3 7          38
Education
Gross enrollment ratio
Secondary                                  % ofaschool-age pop.          19           2 1          23            1 3         4 1           5 3
Female                                                                   9           1 0          1 2           ..34
Pupil-tea Cher ratio: primary               pupils par teacher           60           46           59           40           39
Pupil-teacher ratio: secondary                      044                               23           28            ..20
Pupils reaching grade 4                        % of cohort               34           73           35
Repeater rate: primay                        % of totalenroll            29           35           37
Illiteracy                                 %of pop. (age 15+)            84           62            57           50          4 1           1 9
Female                                    %of fem (age 15+)             ..75                      69           62           53
Nesppe ciecilation                           pe hu  o.                    3            4            3           1 2                       74
World BanklInternational Ecsosoniics Departsnens~  Fsl 19



Annex B
Page 1 of 3
Togo - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                Estimate               Projected
Indicator                         1990     1991    1992    1993    1994       1995      1996     1997     1998
National accounts
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture                        33.7    32.1    34.5    45.4    33.9         34.8
Industry                           22.5    24.0    23.2    19.0    21.7        22.7
Services                           43.8    43.9    42.2    35.6    44.5        42.5
Total Consumption                    92.5    93.2    95.8   103.5    92.2        91.5      90.0     88.3     87.1
Gross domestic investment            19.3    14.8    13.8       4.0    11.6      13.6      15.7     18.1     18.4
Government investment               7.2      4.5      3.6     2.3      2.3       4.0      5.2      5.6       5.8
Private investment                 10.7    11.3    11.8       8.2      6.3       7.8      9.1     11.4      11.6
Increase in stocks                  1.3    -0.9    -1.6    -6.5        3.0       1.8      1.4       1.1      1.0
Exports (GNFS)'                      33.3    33.4    27.8    23.7    31.2        30.8      29.4     27.7     27.9
Imports(GNFS)a                      45.1    41.5    37.3    31.2    34.9         35.9      35.0     34.1     33.5
Gross domestic savings                7.5     6.8      4.2    -3.5       7.8      8.5      10.0     11.7     12.9
Gross national savingsb              10.9     9.9      6.5    -2.6       5.0      9.2      10.1     12.6     13.7
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product              1636    1603    1639    1270        963      1244     1429      1585     1741
(USS million at current
prices)
Gross national product per           429      426      439     347      309       302      301      346       377
capita (USS, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1990
prices)
Gross domestic product at          -0.2    -0.9    -6.3   -15.5    13.9          8.3      6.8      6.5      6.5
market prices
Gross Domestic Income               0.6    -1.4    -6.1   -16.8    13.6         11.3      8.3      5.8      6.6
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1990 prices)c
Gross domestic product at          -3.0    -3.9    -9.3   -15.8        7.8       5.2      3.7      3.4       3.4
market prices
Total consumption                  -2.8    -3.7    -6.1   -10.6    -3.0          7.0      4.3      0.1       1.8
Private consumption                -3.8    -3.2    -5.7   -12.0        1.5       8.1      5.0      1.5       2.4
(Continued)



Annex B
Page 2 of 3
Togo - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                  Estimate                Projected
Indicator   Indicator               1990     1991      1992     1993     1994      1995      1996      1997      1998
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports(GNFS)a                      545.1    535.9    456.0    300.8    300.2       383.2    419.6    439.7    486.5
Merchandise FOB                   395.2    393.0    326.8    215 0    226.0    298.3    333.3    345.5    386.0
Imports (GNFS)a                     738.3    665.5    612.0    395.9    336.6    446.3    500.6    541.0    582.8
Merchandise FOB                   510.9    452.5    409.2    251.1    212.0    293.1    332.7    369.4    395.1
Resource balance                    -193.2   -129.6   -156.0    -95.1    -36.4      -63.0    -81.0   -101.3    -96.3
Net current transfers                  9.9     14.2      8.7      9 5       8.5       6.0       6.7       8.8     12.6
Current account balance             -213.7  -146.2   -174.8   -111 9    -79.4       -92.5   -111.1   -125.8   -118.4
(before official grants)
Official Grants                       113.9     91.4     81.2      31.1     23.3      56.2      62.1      78.7      86.0
Current account balance              -99.9    -54.7    -93.7    -80.8    -56.1      -36.3    -49.0    -47.1    -32.4
(before official grants)
Netpnvateforeigndirect                 7.7     11.6      18.9      1.8      6.3       2.0       3.0       5.9       5.7
investment
Long-term loans (net)                  9.2     35.2    -47.4    -56.4    -18.0       -7.8      53.8      52.1      14.5
OtherCapitald                         86.1     23.4     36.5      10.4    130.5      58.6      28.5      24.4      28.3
Change in Reserves'                   -3.2    -15.4     85.7    125.0    -62.7      -16.4    -36.4    -35.3    -16.1
(- indicates increase)
,Wemorandum items
Resource balance (% of                -11.8     -8.1      -9.5     -7.5     -3.8      -5.1      -5.7      -6.4      -5.5
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(%, 1990 prices)
Merchandise exports                    3.4      4.1    -14.0    -22.1       5.7       4.8       1.0       8.2      10.2
(FOB)
-excluding re-exports           -16.4       5.9   -17.1    -16.4       19.1      10.2       3.1       7.3     11.7
Merchandise imports                   16.8    -10.0    -10.5    -35.2    -18.4        0.3      12.1       9.5      5.1
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)f
Current revenues                     22.5      17.4     16.7      10.6     12.5      14.7      16.7      16.9      17.1
Current expenditures                 21.3      20.9     19.1     23.6      23.3      19.1      18.1      16.5      15.4
o/w primary current expenditures    18.1     17.7      16.2     19.5     17.7      15.6      15.0      13.9      13.2
Currentaccountsurplus(+)               1.2     -3.5      -2.4    -13.0    -10.8      -4.4      -1.4       0.4       1.7
or deficit (-)
o/w primary surplus/deficit          4.5      -0.3      0.5     -8.9     -5.2       -0.9      1.8       3.0       3.9
Capital expenditure                    7.4      4.5      3.6       2.3      2.3       4.0       5.2       5.6       5.8
Foreign financing                      5.0      5.4      4 0       3.3      9.0       6.5       8.3       8.1       5.7
(Continued)



Annex B
Page 3 of 3
Togo - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                 Estimate                Projected
Indicator                          1990     1991     1992     1993    1994      1995      1996      1997     1998
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market           42.8    43.9    39.4    40.1        35.7      35.3      35.9     34 7      38.8
pnces)
Growth ofM2 (%)                       5.1     4.1    -13.9   -15.5    32.3        16.7      164        8.4     23.8
Price indices( 1990 =100)
Merchandiseexportpnce              100.0     99.0    89.8    81.1    158.1        181.7    200.6    194.1    198.5
indexg
Merchandise import price            100 0    102.0     96.7    98.0   198 8       195.9    198.0    202.8    208.2
indexg
Merchandise terms of trade          100.0    103.0    107.7   120.8   125.7    107.9        98.7    104.5    104.9
indexg
Real exchange rate                  100.0     95.4     96.3    92 0      58.0        ..
(US$/LCU)h
Consumer price index                  1.0      0.4      3.3    -3.6    35.3         6.8      5.0       3.0      3.0
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                          3.1      2.5      2.4     -1.9    30.6        8.8      7.3       5.2      4.0
(% growth rate)
a. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
b. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding oflicial capital grants.
c. Per capita growth rates in 1993 and 1994 assume a population growth rate of 0.4 percent and 5.8 percent, respectively.
TIhis reflects the large exodus of Togolese during the crisis in 1993, and their return in 1994.
d. Includes changes in arrears, debt rescheduling, short-term capital, and errors & omissions.
e. Includes use of IMF resources.
f. Central government only.
g. Trade indices are based on IME estimates until 1995, and World Bank price projections starting in 1996.
h. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex C
Togo: External Financing: Requirements and Sources
(In U.S.S million)
Actual                    Estimate                  Projectcd
Indicator                                           1990       1991      1992       1993      1994       1995      1996       1997      1998
. ExternalFinancingRequirements (1-2-3-4-5)           302.5      201.4      137.9     -20.9      127.3     343.8     307.7      215.8      172.7
1.  CurrentAccountBalance                         213.7      146.2     174.8      111.9      79.4      92.5      111.1      125.8     118.4
2.  Amortization                                   65.0       57.7      59.2       60.6      59.5       48.3      51.1       38.1      38.2
3.  Change in .Arrears                              0.0      -17.9     -21.4      -68.4     -89.8      153.5      75.9        0.0       0.0
4.  Change in Reserves (excl. LDF)                  3.2        7.5     -85.8    -133.5       71.5       40.5      57.4       39.1       1.0
5.  INF Repurchases                                20.6        7.9      11.1        8.5       6.7        9.0      12.3       12.9      15.1
B. Financin (6+74-8-9+10,l1)                          302.5      201.4      137.9     -20.9      127.3     343.8      307.7     215.8      172.7
6.  Grants                                        113.9       91.4      81.2       31.1      23.3       56.2      62.1       78.7      86.0
Project                                      36.6       23.7      25.6        3.5       7.3       17.5      29.7       39.2      48.5
Program                                       15.8       0.0        1.9       0.0        6.5      17.8       10.6      15.9      11.6
Other                                        61.4       67.7       53.6      27.5        9.6      20.9       21.8      23.6      25.9
7.  Loans                                          74.2       92.9       11.8       4.2      41.6       40.4     104.9       90.1      52.7
Project                                      61.7       48.2        6.8       4.2       13.4      27.9       37.0      40.1      42.7
Adjustment                                    12.5      44.7        5.0       0.0       28.2      12.5      67.9       50.0      10.0
o/wWorldBank                                 1.5      23.8        5.0        0.0      20.1        3.7      42.1      30.0       10.0
8.  lMF SAF/ESAF                                   20.6        0.0       11.0       0.0      15.5       33.1      33.3       16.6       0.0
9.  Debt Relief                                    52.7       45.9      61.2       25.0        5.8     212.1      104.4      24.4      28.3
Debt Relief Obtained                         52.7       45.9      61.2       25.0        5.8     212.1       41.6      24.4       1.1
oiw debt forgiven                            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        5.8       4.0        2.2       1.0        1.1
Possible Debt Relief                            ..        ..         ..        ..         ..        ..       62.8       0.0      27.2
10. Long-TermPrivateCapital 1/                      7.7       11.6      18.9        1.8       6.3        2.0       3.0        5.9       5.7
11. Net Short-terrn Capital 2/                     33.4      -40.4     -46.2      -83.0      34.8        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
C. Financing Gap (A-B)                                   0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
/ Direct foreign investment
2; Including errors and omissions



Annex D
Page I of 3
Status of Bank Group Operations in Togo
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of 3/18/1996)
Difference
Original amount in USS millior.              between expected
Project              Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                       and actual
ID                Credit No   Year      Borrower                  Purpose                IBRD         IDA   Cancellations  Undisbursed   disbursements'
Number of Closed Loans/Credits    35
Active Loans
TG-PA-2856              C19290    1988 GOVTOFTOGO   COTTON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT                             1510                        364               251
TG-PA-2862             C18610   1988 GOVTOFTOGO    TRANSP REHABILITATION                                 4000                         668               1 81
TG-PA-2861              C19930    1989 GOVTOFTOGO    GRASSROOTS DEV INITIATIVE                             500                        1 36             -409
TG-PA-2874              C20560    1989 GOVT OF TOGO    TELECOM                                            1600           1 35         1 55            -1590
TG-PA-2880             C20180   1989 GOVTOFTOGO    PRE-INVEST PROJECT                                      5 00                       3 76              3 02
TG-PA-2863             C21710   1991 GOVTOFTOGO    POWERREHABILITATION                                    1500                        771               621
TG-PA-2864              C22110   1991 GOVTOFTOGO   POPULATION HEALTH ADJUSTMENT                           14 20                       6 64              6 10
TG-PA-2872              C21740   1991 GOVT OF TOGO    VOC EDUCATION TRAINING                               9 20                       6 88              5 81
TG-PA-2865              C26200    1994 GOVT OF TOGO   LOME URBAN DEVELOPMENT                              2620                       2554               079
TG-PA-2889              C27520    1995 GOVT OF TOGO    EDUCATION                                          36 60                      34 39              2 80
TOTAL                                                                                        0.00      18230            1 35       98 14              907
Active Loans                   Closed Loans                TotaJ
Total disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                                 94 08                          435.05               529 13
Of which repaid                                               0.00                           74 30                74 30
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                                180 95                          345 37               526.32
Amount sold                                                     0 00                            0 00                 0 00
Of which repad                                                0.00                            0.00                 0 00
Total urwdsbursed                                              98 14                            0 00                98 14
a. Intended disbursements to date rnunu actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Annex D
Page 2 of 3
Togo - Statement of IFC Investments
As or 22996
(I_SS mnlbon)
Original Gross Conmnoe-nis
Fiscal                                                                                                       iFC      IFC                             HHld by        Held by  Lndiib  anc-
Yeair                      Obhlgor                                     ryp. of Basin,,S                    Loan  Eq.Iuy  P-rs cipa-1 J       otals       IFC   Patt:ctpanu   Paiticipanta
1987   a/ Pan Atlantic Company S A                    Texttes                                               70       1 09                     8 09
1988   a' Ducros - Togo, S A                          Food and Agribuamess                                  1 43                              1 43
1988   a" Socidet Togolaise de SiderurLe, S A         'Somng and Extraction of Metals and Other Ores        0 85                              0 85
1990   a' Togotex International S. A                  Texies                                                         I2                       12
1992      Societe Togolawse de Prodwts Marinn - STPM   Food and Agnbuuinesr                                 O 21    0 05                      026        0 24
1995      Societe Togolaise de Prodwut .Manns - STPM   Food and Agnbusiness                                 0 08                              008        0 08                        0 08
Total gross coruitmenot b/                                                                       9 57    2 86           0 00      12 43
Less cancelations, terminations, repayment & sales                                               9 25    2 86           0 00      12 11
Total comnmtrnrents now held c/                                                                  0 32    0 00           0 00       0 32        0 32          0 00         0 08
Penduig Comtrinents
Total pending conuTutrnents                                                                      000    0 00            0 00       0 00
Total conumtrnents held and pending comnutments                                                  0 32    0 00           0 00       0 32
Total undisbuarsed cornontmients                                                                 0 08    0. 00          0 00       0 08
al Investments which have been fuDly cancelede termnated. wnrten oft, sold redeemed or repaid
hS Gross comuratments consist of approved and signed projects
c Held conmitrnents comist of disbursed and undisbarsed tsnstrnent



Annex D
Page 3 of 3
PORTFOLIO
Togo's active portfolio by end February 1996 consists of 9 IDA credits with an undisbursed balance of
US$99 million. Out of these 9 projects, 2 were approved aftcr 1994 and 7 were approved before 1991.
Implementation of the portfolio was paralvzed by the political turmoll of the carly 1990s which explains the
number of overaged projects in Togo (see table below).
Following the progressive return of the country to normalcy since December 1993. regular supervision
and field work have resumed. The portfolio was restructured to better meet Togo's changed economic realities,
help alleviate the worsened poverty conditions, gear projects to getting better results on the ground and improve
portfolio disbursements. The development objectives of four projccts (Transport Sector Rehabilitation, Power,
Vocational Training and Pre-Investinent) were refocused to better respond to some of the country's immediate
priorities following the crisis of 1992 and 1993: rehabilitating essential roads and energy infrastructure, providing
skills in demand by Togo's private sector and supporting the public enterprise reform program. Also, the Urban
and Education Rehabilitation projects were post-appraised and restructured to address the urgent priority of
restoring urban service deliverv and halting the degradation of educational services. In addition, given the
unavailabilitv of counterpart funds linked to Togo's budgetarv difficulties and the slow resumption of external
assistance, IDA agreed to waive, on an exceptional basis, counterpart fund requirements for high priority projects
until June 1995. Despite the still difficult political situation, thc restructuring of the portfolio has already resulted
in improved project implementation which is reflected in higher development objectives and implementation
ratings.  The unsatisfactory implementation ratings (IP) for the Pre-lnvestment, Power Rehabilitation and
Population/Health Adjustment projects were upgraded to satisfactory following supervision missions in the first
quarter of 1996. Presently, there are no problem projects, while in FY93, in the midst of the crisis, the number of
said projects had risen to 9.
Overall disbursements under Togo's portfolio have regained pre-crisis levels. Disbursements in FY95
reached US$28 million up from US$8 million in FY94. Bv-end February 1996, disbursements for FY96 had
reached US$15 million, all of which under investment projects. This level compares favorably with pre-crisis
disbursement performance for investment projects when disbursements averaged US$16 million a year.
As indicated in the table below, two projects display high disbursement lags. The Vocational Education
Training project was suspended in March 1995. Faced with liquiditv constraints, the Government had used the
special account to finance its counterpart funding.  The suspension was lifted in October 1995 after the
Government reimbursed the special account The Pre-investment project which finances studies and consultant
services related to the implementation of the Government reform program took off in 1994. About one third of
the funds were disbursed since then and an additional onc third has been committed. Disbursements will increase
sharply with the completion of the large number of studies underx- ay.
Status of Disbursement Performance and Over-aged Projects in Togo
Project Name              Cumulative Disbursement (%)
_  SAR Forecast          Sector/LI Profile
Vocational Educ. Trg.            63.2                  44.2
Pre-Investment                   61.5                  66.8
Project Name                    Over-aged projects
FY          [        Age
Transport Rehab.                  88                   8.2
Population/Health Adj.           91                     5



TOGO ERAC POLICY MATRIX
Policy Objectives                  Main measures taken under                  Measures recently taken   TERAC  measures                                           Calendar
previous SACs                        l                r           t                                                                          l
1. Public Finance
A. Tax and Tariff Reform
Simplify the system ot taxation,   Direct and Indirect Taxation           Business and indirect taxation         Business and Indirect Taxation
itnprove its neutrality and expand  Introductioni of a general income tax  *  Establishment of a special         *   Eliminate the compulsory contribution to the  1 995
the tax base                                                                 departmenit responsible for             FNI
Introduction of a gencral sales tax       managing the accounts of the largest  *   Reduce the dispersion of import dutics trom 5-  1 995
(TGA)                                     taxpayers                               35 percent to 5-20 percelit
*  Registry of taxpayers on the basis of  *   Fliminate specific taxes on imports of non-  1995
Consolidation of main taxes on imports    a single identification number for all  petroleum goods (rice, sugar and wax fabric)
into a transaction tax (TT)               fiscal liabilities                 *   Consolidate the TFR with taxes on             1995
petroleum products and climinate the TC
Elimination of export duties and taxes                                       *   Abolish the system of cost valuation iactors  1995
*   Reduce exoneration thirough the non          1995
Generalization of [GA to encompass                                                reniewal of special convenitions and tiscal
domestic production and imports                                                   iicentives wider the investment codes        1995
Reduction of tariff rates dispersion (4                                           relace rem ainin    (cement,brrad-1995
rates ranging from 5 to 35 percent)                                              replace themi with tariffs (cemnt, bread-flour,
arid irofi)1956
Introduction of preshipinent inspection                                      *   Implement a program of actions to strengthen
custom adminiistration
k' 5
_, rr



Policy Objectives                 Main measures taken under                 Measures recently taken                       ERAC  measures                     Calendar
I previous SACs
B. Public expenditures
Improve the structure of public
expenditure and                   Introduction of a three-year rolling P11    The 1996 Budget submitted to    PIP
restructure current expenditures in                                     Parliament for approval reflects     Agree on a three-year rollimg PIP Ibr 1996-98 and    1995-96
favor of priority sectors (health,  Annual review of                    adequate allocations for nonwage      1997-99
education and transport)          budgetary allocation                  expenditures in the priority sectors and
to non-wage expenditure for priority  limits the wage bill to FCFA 52.4    Arrears
sectors                              billion.                              *  Update cross debts and domestic arrears and  1996-97
adopt a paymnent plan
Adoption of a procurement code                                             *  Settle cross debts and arrears according to  1996-97
priotities agreed upon during negotiations,
Wage bill
*  Limit the wage bill to FCFA 51 billion in 1995   1995
*  Limit the wage bill to FCFA 52.4 billion in  1996
1996
*  Limit the wage bill to 49 percent of primary  1997
current expenditure in 1997
Budgetary allocation to priority sectors        1996-97
*   Increase share of Governmenit expenditure
(excluding debt service and foreign-fiiianiced
investment) on health to 10 9 percent in 1996
and 11 6 percent in 1997
*   Increase share of tGovemment expenditure
(excluding debt service and loreign-finawiced
investment) on education to 28 3 percent in
1996 and 29 3 percent in 1997
*   Increase road mainteniance expenditures to  1996-)7
CFAF 2 billion in 1996 and CFAF 2 5 billion
in 1997. Ensure adequate allocationis lbr
govemrment consumptioil ot'water, electricity
and telephone
* Funiish a quarterly budget executioni
summary to II)A within 45 days ol the
end olUeach quarter                                  __
r r



Policy Objectives                   Main measures taken under                    Measures recently taken                          ERAC  measures                       Calendar
previous SACs
H. Public Enterprises
Enhance efl-iciency of PEs
remaining in Govenmment portfolio    Reorganization o' the MISE and         *  Adoption of privatization legislation   *  Complete the SIG reports for 1992, 1993 and  June 1996
introduction of a management/              to facilitate privatization and          1994
Alleviate budgetary pressure from   monitoring information system               transfer of Government holdiigs in    *  Revise the performance contracts with public  September
non-viable PEs and increase scope                                               enterprises in which it has             utilities (CFlIT, RNET, (WPT)                   1996
of private sector activity          Adoption of a new institutional and         participation                        *  Agree on a schedule to increase water and       1995
regulatory framework for public        *  Preparation ofi terms of reference fbr   electricitv tarifl's and introduce a user charge
enterprise                                 valuation ot' assets of 13 enterprises  s\ stem for stand pipes vkatcr
in view of sales ol'Goverrment      *  Increase water and electricity tariffs accordinig    1995-96
hitroduction of a system of performanice   shares                                  to agreed schedule in 1995 and 1996
contract                                                                        *  Complete the financial audits lor the most      1995-9)6
important 'PEs remaining in the portfolio
Privatization or liqulidation of 35                                             *  T'Fransfer marketing ol' cotton to SOTOC()      March  99
enterprises out of an itlitial portfolio of                                     *  Select an investment adviser to assist in the   March 1996
77                                                                                 restructuring of OTP' and the searchi for private
partnerSMac  19
*  Sell 40 percent o' Governmeiit shares in ('IP    March 1997
*  Adopt a dated action plan for divestiture trom  Juic 1996
the hotel sector in loine (hotel 2 Fevricr,
Tropicana, La Paix, Saraka\,u)                 Julie t 996
*  Transforin OPAT intoa sinall export eniJt'
undfer majorityI private o\Aiership            Ieene
*  Implement a divestiture action plan tor         199 e
TOWNP IARMA                                    I996-97
*  Complete sale or demonstrate best ellorts to
sel the hotels in Lonie and the tbllo iiig hiotels
located in the provinces LIe Lac, Kara, l'azao,
Central, Roc, 30 Ao6t                          1996-97
*  Complete saic or demoistrate best effort to
bring to the point of sale Government shares iii
13rasseries du Benin, CLM'tiO, S(iMT, SIT,
TOGOGiAZ, SATAL, S('I'ONAM, SIlO               1996-97
*  D)ivest trom SO) 'iD and '1 OGOGRAiN
(5
o im



Policy Objectives                 Main measures taken under                 Measures recently taken                       ERAC  measures                   JCalendar
I previous SACs                                                          T
IIL Incentive and Reeulatory
framework
Eliminate distortions to pnvate   Agriculture                           Agriculture                          Agriculture
sector activities and promote a
strong private sector led supply  Liberalization of prices for all      *  Adoption of a law to transfer     Cotton
response to the recent devaluation  agricultural products at the exception of  marketing of cotton from OPAT to    *  Transfer 50% of SOTOCO after tax profits to    1995-96
export crops                            SO rOCO                               cotton producers
*  Prepare an action plan for the liberalization of   June 1996
Liberalization of food crop imports and   Non-agriculture                     the cotton sector
exports
*  Liberalization of prices of salt, pasta  Coffee and cocoa
Introduction of a pricing system linking  and all purpose flour            *  Liberalize producer prices for coffee and cocoa   March 1996
producer prices to international prices                                    *  Abolish public sector monopolies on marketing   March 1996
and export of coffee and cocoa
Non-agriculture                                                            *  Abolish fixed margins and licensing system for   March 1996
marketing activities of coffee and cocoa
Abolition Of state monopoly on imports
Abolition of export and import                                             *  Eliminate price controls (cement, iron rods,  1995
licensing                                                                     corrugated iron, wheat flour, beer and soft
drinks, plastic pipes) and fixed profit margins
Abolition of most price controls and                                          (sugar, rice, vegetable oil, milk, tomato paste,
fixed profit margins                                                          LPG, corrugated iron and sewing machines)
*  Revise the investmnent code                 1996
Abolition of requirement for periodic                                        Revise the labor code and its implementiiig  1996
renewal of investment pernit                                                  decrees
*  Adopt a regulatory framework for drugs import   March 1996
Creation of an export processing zone                                         and distribution
*  Adopt a price structure for drugs that provide  1996
adequate incentives for the sale of generics.



Annex E
Page 5 of 5
List of Public Enterprises in the Program
100% State Owned (16)
1.     Hotel du 2 Fevrier                   9.      Hotel Lac
2.     Hotel de la Paix                      10.    Hotel Fazao
3.     Hotel Sarakawa                        11.    TOGOPHARMA (Pharmaceuticals)
4.     Hotel Tropicana                       12.    SONAPH (Palmn oil plantations and production)
5.     Hotel Kara                            13.    NOUVELLE-SOTOMA (Building Material)
6.     Hotel Central                         14.    OPAT (Marketing board)
7.     Hotel 30 Aouit                        15.    SOTONAM (Maritime transport)
8.     Hotel Roc                             16.    OTP (Phosphates)
2. 50 tolOO% State Owned (3)
17.    SITO (Housing)
19.    UPROMA (Marble)
18.    SOTED (Consulting)
Up to 50% State Owned (6)
20.    SGMT (Wheat flour)                      23.    SIT (Matches)
21.    CIMTOGO (Cement)                       24.    SATAL (Chicken)
22.    BB (Brasserie du Benin brewvery)        25.    TOGOGAZ (Gas conditioning)



Annex F
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTAL DATA SHEET
Section I:    Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Time taken to prepare the project:         10 months
Project Prepared by:                       Government with the assistance of IDA staff
Loan Committee:                            May 3, 1995
Appraisal:                                 May 6-13, 1995
Negotiations:                              August 1995
Board Presentation:                        April 1996
Effectiveness Date:                        May 1996
Closing Date:                              December 1997
Section II:    Special Conditions
Board Conditions:
* Abolition of the system of licensing and fixed profit margins on internal marketing of coffee and cocoa,
liberalization of their prices and elimination of the public sector monopoly on their exports;
* Elimination of the compulsory contribution to the FNI;
* Reduction of the dispersion of import duties from 5-35 percent to 5-20 percent, abolition of non-tariff
barriers on the import of cement, wheat flour, iron rods and corrugated iron and simplification of
import taxation (abolition of the system of reference value for custom valuation and elimination of the
specific taxes on imports of rice sugar and wax fabrics);
* Submission of a three-year rolling PIP for 1996-98 acceptable to IDA;
* Employment by the borrower of an investment advisor on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA to
assist in the restructuring of OTP and the search for private partners;
* Submission of a price structure for drugs and pharmaceutical products and a regulatory framework for
drug distribution activities acceptable to IDA;
* Liberalization of remaining price controls and fixed profit margins;
* Effective transfer of cotton external marketing from OPAT to SOTOCO; and
* First increase in water and electricity tariffs, to levels agreed during negotiations.
This report is based on the findings of the World Bank missions which visited the Republic of Togo in April
and May 1995 to assist the Govemment in the appraisal of the ERAC. Mission members included:
Messrs./Mmes Ahlers (Principal economist), Daniel (Resident representative), Fargier (Consultant), Marie-
Nelly (Public Enterprise Specialist), Mouysset (Counsel), Neel (Consultant), and Zlaoui (Task Manager).
Additional contributors include: Messrs./Mrnes. Okonjo-Iweala (Division Chief); Garrity (Resident
Representative); Nemethy (Private Sector Development Specialist); Van Adams (Human Resource Specialist);
Gilsenan (Research Assistant); Lopez (Staff Assistant), and Morgan (Sr. Staff Assistant). Mr. Theodore
Ahlers and Mr. Olivier Lafourcade are the Acting Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for
the operation.



Annex G
Page I of 16
Unofficial Translation
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
MINISTRY OF PLANNING
DIRECTORATE OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
TOGOLESE ECONOMIC
RECOVERY AND ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (ERAC)
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
OF THE TOGOLESE GOVERNMENT
February 22, 1996



Annex G
Page 2 of 16
1.     After four years of social and political unrest, Togo faces an alarning economnic situation. The
Govcrnment budget has experienced a large fiscal deficit, its revenue intake having fallen by half in 1993, wvhile
its expenditures have for the most part remained at their previous level. The overall wage bill has risen, mainmy as
a result of the wage increases that occurred in 1991 and 1992 and of the lifting of the freeze on promotions. With
barelv sufficient resources to meet its primarv expenditures, the Government is beset by constant cash flow
problems. The shortage of resources has led to the accumulation of substantial arrears vis-a-vis the private sector
and the water, electricity, and telecommunications utilities. The failure of both the Government and private
consumers and businesses to regularly settle their accounts with those utilities has put the latter in a difficult
positon and could result in interruption of essential services.
2.     With the sole exception of the rural sector, the productive apparatus has also been severely affected by
the financial crisis and is operating below capacitv. Real GDP fell by 3 percent in 1992 and by 14 percent in
1993. Despite an upswing in 1994 and 1995, it is still short of its 1990 level. The country's infrastructure has
also suffered considerable deterioration, in the absence of even minimal maintenance. Large investments will be
required to resume adequate maintenance, rehabilitation and renewal of some equipment.
3.     In order to reverse this trend, in 1994 the Government launched a series of internal and external
adjustment measures designed to put the economv back on a growth path with moderate inflation. As in the other
countries in the franc area, the first and most important measure adopted wvas to adjust the parity of the CFA
franc by reducing the rate from CFAF 50 to 100 per French franc. The Government's development strategy, as
described in the 1995-98 Policv Framework Paper, is designed to correct the severe imbalance that has
characterized the public finances over the past few years, enhance the economv's extemal competitiveness,
achieve sustainablv high economic growth and accelerate the pace of job creation.
4.     In the arena of public finance, the current primary deficit (before payment of interest on the external debt
and investment expenditures) will be reduced considerably. From 11 percent of GDP in 1993, it dropped to 1.5
percent m 1995, and it wNill be converted in 1996 into a primary surplus which will reach 2.5 percent of GDP in
1997. At the same tine. the Government intends to settle its external payment arrears in 1995-96 through debt
rescheduling, direct settlement, and a possible buvback of its commercial bank debt. To achieve these objectives,
revenue. which fell from the equivalent of 17 percent of GDP in 1992 to 10 percent in 1993, should revert to 16
percent of GDP by 1996. Although these figures represent a clear improvement over the initial situation, thev are
still far below the levels achieved prior to the social and political crisis. Over the period 1984-1990, the primary
surplus was equiva1c,it to 5-12 percent of GDP and total government resources ranged from 22 percent to 28
percent of GDP.
5.     Monetary and credit policies will be based on the instruments introduced in October 1989 and October
1993 by the West Africa Monetary union (WAMU). These included a flexible interest rate policv, a reserve
requirement, and a system of public auctions conducted by the Central Bank to establish a balance bet-een
supply and demand for liquidity. The basic objective of monetary policy is to strengthen Togo's foreign exchange
reserves while making an appropriate volume of resources available to finance the productive sectors. To achieve
this, the overall government debt to the banking system should be reduced to make wav for an increase in credit to
other sectors of the economv, in particular the private sector. The growth in total money supply over the period
1996-1998 will be consistent with the growth of GDP. with inflation targets of 7 percent in 1996 and 5 percent in
1997, in temis of GDP deflator. Macroeconomic projections and policies will be updated annually in the context
of the Policy Framework Paper, based on the progress made in reducing imbalances and on available financing.



Annex G
Page 3 of 16
6.     The Government intends to bring the economy back onto a growth track by implementing appropriate
policies within the framework of the Economic Recovery and Adjustrnent Program (ERAC).
Mediumn Tern Macroeconomic Policies, Objectives and Reforms in Support of the Economic Recovery
and Adjustment Program (ERAC)
7.     In the wake of the collapse of the economy in the early 1990s, the main objective of the ERAC is to
restore macroeconomic equilibrium and to support the very positive supply response of the private sector to the
devaluation of the CFA franc. The Program aims to accelerate the pace of economic growth, which is expected to
attain an average rate of around 6 percent a year beginning in 1995. In 1994, GDP rose more sharply, by 14
percent in constant terms. This reflected a return to more normal levels of economic activity following the
substantial drop in 1992 and 1993. This recovery should have a particularly strong impact on small and
medium-size enterprises writh available production capacity, in the agriculture sector, where the new strategy
should promote crop diversification, and in the mining and trade sectors.
8.     To underpin this growth, the program envisages a sharp increase in the investrnent rate, which should
rise from 14 percent of GDP in 1991-92 to nearly 18 percent on average in 1997-98. Restoring macroeconomic
equilibrium entails a series of measures in the folloving areas: (i) public finance; (ii) public enterprises; and (iii)
regulatory and incentives framework.
Public Finance
9.     The effects of the change in the panty of the CFA franc and the resumption of a vigorous adjustment
policy will make it possible both to briing about the recovery of public finances and to improve the structure of
revenue and expenditure. Revenue should increase from its 1993 level of 10 percent of GDP to 17 percent on
average in 1995-96. This trend will be facilitated by a larger contnrbution from the export sectors and by a
broadening of the tax base. As a result, more resources can be allocated to social programs, to operating and
maintenance expenditures, which have been severely contained over recent years. and also to investment, to
strengthen the production potential.
10.    Major steps Uill be taken during the course of the program to broaden the tax base in particular by
integrating the informal sector and improving collection and control procedures. Taxpayer identification will be
improved via a registration process, the informal sector will be taxed through a withholding at the customs, and
the business tax on small enterprises will be simplified.
11.    The TGA is reformed to reduce exemptions and simplifv the rate structure. A VAT with a low rate of 7
percent and a regular rate of 18 percent was applied across the board as of July 1, 1995. Taxation of small
enterprises will be reformed through the introduction of a general business tax, which could take effect in 1996.
It will replace all existing business taxes. More effective collection procedures have been introduced, and include:
(i) establishment of an office responsible for tax assessment and collection for large taxpayers; (ii) taxpayer
registration through the assignment of a common identification code for all tax purposes; (iii) computerization of
tax returns, payments. and follow-up of tax delinquents.
12.    The spread of import tariffs is reduced from  5-35 percent to 5-20 percent. The customs tariff, which
now has only three rates (5, 10, and 20), took effect on July 1, 1995. All specific import taxes on non-oil
products, such as import duties on sugar, rice, and batik (Wax fabric), were abolished on June 26, 1995. The



Annex G
Page 4 of 16
road fund tax (TFR) was consolidated with other duties on oil products. The Government has decided to eliminate
the svstem of reference value for custom valuations, with effect from May 2, 1995. Non-tariff barriers on wheat
flour, ccment, iron rods and corrugated iron were eliminated on August 17, 1995.
13.    The reorganization of the National Investment Company (SN13 and the compulsory contribution to the
National Investmnent Fund (FNI) are matters of ongoing concern to the Government. When the SNI was set up,
the goal was to encourage firms to invest through a svstem involving a compulsory contribution to the FNI levied
arnnually at 0.5 percent of turnover to finance new investment. But in the event it was only the large firms that
managed to meet the requirernents for recovering payments to the FNM. To be eligible for reimbursement, a firm
must put together an investment portfolio equal to at least CFAF 10 million, and then make the respective
investments within hvo years following payment of its compulsory contribution to the FNI. Mandatory
contributions to the FNI were eliminated and the law abolishing the FNI was adopted by the National assembly in
Februarv 1996.
14.    With respect to the investmnent code, and especially with regard to exemptions, the Governnent's
intention in introducing these advantages is to encourage the formation of a group of Togolese businessmen by
giving them incentives to make productive private investrnents. However, it must be recogriized that the tax
advantages allowed by the code not only put a heavy burden on the public finances, but also do not encourage
businesses to make adequate efforts survive bevond the approval period, and these businesses tend to ask for the
exemptions to be reneNved. The Government will reform this system to take into account the new situation
created by the devaluation of the CFA franc, the creation of the industrial free zone, the UEMOA, and the
existence of establishment agreements. The mam objective will be to arrive at a sinplified system, one that is
neutral (i.e. does not discriminate across sectors), automatic, transparent, and easy to implement. The code will
be revised and pared down to a set of general provisions regarding arbitration and guarantees. A verv simple
system of common law will be the general rule. The Government will observe establishment agreemnents currently
in place, but special agreements that are not in line with common law will not be renewed. No nev establishment
agreements will be signed. and enterprises being privatized should not receive any advantages over and above the
provisions of common law. The revised code will be implemented by December 31, 1996 at the latest.
15.    The efficiency of the Customns Administration will be improved in 1996 through the introduction of
measures designed to stamp out fraud and control transit traffic. These measures include the provision of
additional equipment, reorganization of the customs services, and expansion of computerized customs clearance
procedures. A revised version of SYDONIA will be put in place, agents will be trained in the new techniques,
and procedures will be improved, with tightened supervision over the duty suspension and exernption systems. A
reform of foreign-financed governnent contracts, involving the elinination of tax exemptions, was introduced in
1994. When this reform is completed, all of the Govemrnment's public works, supply, or service contracts with
external financing will come under the svstem of ordinary law, and the fiscal cost will be covered bv the Central
Government.
16.    Turning to government spending, the authorities will pursue a cautious policy focusing on equipmnent and
infrastructure maintenance expenditures for priority sectors. In terms of current expenditure, the Government
will give preference to rehabilitating and improving the management of social services, especially in the education
and health sectors. In 1996, the share of Governnent expenditure, excluding debt service and foreign-
financed investment, on health will reach 10.9 percent of up from 8.4 percent in 1995. This share will
increase to 11.6 percent in 1997 and 12.6 percent in 1998. The share of government expenditure on
education, likewise excluding debt service and foreign-financed investment, will increase from 26.4 percent
in 1995 to 28.3 percent in 1996, and will, thereafter, rise by the equivalent of I percentage point a year.



Annex G
Page 5 of 16
The increase in wage expenditures will be limited to leave sufficient funding available for measures to benefit the
most vulnerable segments of the population through the minimal budgetary allocations in the education and health
sectors. To this end, the wage bill which was contained at CFAF 51.5 billion in 1995 will not exceed CFAF 52.4
billion in 1996, and 49 percent of primary current expenditure in 1997. The Government's priority objective is to
achieve regularity in payments of salaries, pensions, and fellowships.
17.    The Government will take steps to curb unbudgeted consumption of water, electricity, and telephone
services, where a large volume of arrears has accumulated. The budgetary allocations will be revised and a strict
systern instituted to monitor both consumption and the procedures for issuing payment orders and making
pa%ments, to prevent delays in the settlement of accounts. Budget appropriations for the maintenance of buildings
and roads will be increased to improve the effectiveness of essential services and infrastructure. To this end, the
road fund was increased from CFAF 1.5 billion in 1995 to CFAF 2 billion in 1996 and will be increased to
CFAF 2.5 billon in 1997. Ten percent of this arnount will go to improving access to isolated villages in the
poorest regions.
18.   In order to improve the efficiency of the civil service, the Government will devise new staffing plans and
will examine potential overstaffing in some sectors, with a view to redeploying personnel. Only hiring needs in
prioritv sectors will be given special attention. The Government will also consider the possibility of introducing a
voluntary departure plan. It will pursue the efforts already initiated to tighten controls on military spending. A
provisional allocation of CFAF 1.5 billion is set aside in the 1996 and 1997 budgets to cover severance payments
in conjunction with public enterprises slated for restructuring and privatization. A study on the reorganization of
agricultural services is under way. On the basis of that studv, the sector's needs will be identified and amounts
allocated to cover nonwage expenditures that could enhance the sector's efficiency and productivitv.
19.    The Government attaches prioritv to settling its internal and external payment arrears. An exhaustive
survey of the domestic public debt was conducted, as a basis for updating cross-debt tables and other domestic
arrears. A settlement plan has been adopted, based on the priorities determiined in concert With the World Bank.
Preference is given to strategic enterprises in the public sector, such as CEET, RNET, and OPTT, to the
Togolese Pension Fund (CRT), and to the private sector. Domestic arrears compnse wage arrears, including
arrears in contributions to the Pension Fund, and nonwage arrears. In addition, there are non-Treasury arrears
resulting from the procedures adopted by government departments in issuing payment orders. These arrears will
be consolidated with others and will be cleared under a settlement plan.
20.    The investment program gives pnorit to the agricultural sector and infiastructure, in addition to health,
education, and vocational training. It emphasizes rehabilitation of schools and primary health care centers and
acquisition of school books and equipment. Labor-intensive projects and programs designed to step up job
creation are also included. To increase efficiency, ensure transparency in planning and executing the government
budget, and to improve procedures for monitoring the use of foreign aid funds, the Government will prepare and
execute operating and investment budgets within a consolidated budget framework. The new budget structure
will distinguish investment and capital expenditures from operating expenses. Recurrent costs incurred under
investment projects will appear explicitly in the operating budget. The Government, with technical assistance
provided by the International Monetary Fund, initiated a revision of budgetary procedures in 1994 to sirnplify
thern and provide better control over government spending. An annual review of the rolling public investment
program, including investments by public enterprises, will be undertaken in conjunction wNith the World Bank.
Moreover, the Government will provide the World Bank with a quarterly budget execution sunmmary within forty-
five (45) days of the end of each quarter.



Annex G
Page 6 of 16
21.    The government accounting office will be reorganized to ensure strict management of all government
financial resources and their use. The Govenmuent will also pursue its efforts to reorganize the three major
departments in charge of economic and financial affairs, namely the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the
Ministrv of Planning, and the Ministry of Trade. Institutional reforms will also be undertaken within the other
ministnes to enhance the country's macroeconomic management capacitv.
Public Enterprises
22.    The Government will continue to implement its public enterprise reforrn and divestiture policy.
Operations will be conducted as indicated in the program described in the attached mnatrix, taking into account the
market's absorptive capacity, in accordance with the Government's new legal framework for divestiture and
privatization, and giving pnonty to enterprises in difficulty. The divestiture process has begun for 10 state-owned
hotels four of which are in Lome and six are in the interior of the country, and for Brasserie du Benin, Socit
Togolaise de Navigation Mantime (SOTONAM), Societe Industnelle du Togo (SIT), TOGOGAZ, Societe
Agricole Togolaise Arabe Lybienne (SATAL), and Societe Immobilire du Togo (SITO). The divestiture
program will also include Office des Prodwts Agricoles du Togo (OPAT), Societe Togolaise d'Etudes de
Developpement (SOTED), and Societe Nationale des Palmeraies et des Huileries (SONAPH). The
Government intends to step up the pace of its public enterprise reform program and, more specifically, to sell
TOGOGAZ, SIT, SOTED and the hotels located in the interior of the country before June 1996. The other
above-mentioned enterprises will be put up for sale before end-1996. OPAT will be converted into a small
company marketing coffee and cocoa before end-June 1996. The State will be associated with private partners
who 'Will hold a majoritv stake in the company. The program will continue later with Societe des Ciments du
Togo (CIMTOGO), and Societe des Grands Moulins du Togo (SGMTI) which are under private management.
23.    A new legal framework for privatization operations was adopted under Ordonnance No. 94-002/PR and
implementing Decree No. 94-038/PR dated June 10, 1994. The privatization committee referred to in Article 8
of the Ordonnance was established on June 16, 1995, and the additional regulations will be adopted before June
1996. Monitornng of the public enterprises remaining in the Government's portfolio will be strengthened. The
SIG, or management information system, will be given adequate resources to make it more operational. SIG
reports for 1992, 1993, and 1994 will be completed and sent to the Bank before June 1996 and those for 1995
before September 1996. The implementation of the performnance contracts signed with the CEET. RNET, and
OPTT was disrupted by the halt in activities and the devaluation. Thev will be updated before September 1996.
The boards of directors will be closely involved in the entire revision process, to ensure closer monitoring of
contract performance. Financial audits will be performed every year for the major companies remaining in the
government portfolio. These audits were performed in 1995 for CRT, Hotel Ecole le Benin, and CNSS. The audit
of EDITOGO is underway.
24. In view of the increase in costs following the devaluation, the Govemrnment is planning to raise water and
electricity rates on the basis of technical simulation papers prepared by RNET, CEET and OPTT. Water and
electricity tariffi were raised by 15 percent (water) and 20 percent (electricity) on October 1, 1995. The increases
scheduled for 1996 are 9 and 15 percent respectively. These tariff increases would be reviewed with the Bank if
one or more of the parameters intervening in cost determination changes substantially.
25.    Office Togolais des Phosphates (OTP) is undergoing a financial reorganization. The restructuring
involves the settlement of arrears to suppliers and rescheduling of short-term debts to local commercial banks and
SNI. These efforts will be accompanied by a significant increase in production and a more vigorous approach to
marketing activities. The authorities have decided to open OTP's capital by selling 40 percent of its shares to



Annex G
Page 7 of 16
private investors in accordance with the new privatization legislation adopted by Ordonnance 94-002/PR and
decree 94-038/PR. The main objectives pursued by the Government are to ensure management autonomy,
generate a substantial capital infusion, and to increase the share of the enterprise on the world market, in
particular by associating strategic investors to its capital.
26.    The key steps of the privatization process are: (a) negotiation and signing of the advisory contract
with the investment adviser who will assist in the restructuring of the company and the opening of its
capital to private participation, and the search for private partners; (b) analysis of the company's assets
and operation; its future perspectives and main problems; (c) preparation of an optimal restructuring/equity
participation strategy to be adopted by the Government; (d) preparation of an information memorandum
incorporating the agreement on the restructuring/equity participation; (e) distribution of the memorandum
and invitation for proposals to potential investors; (f) evaluation of proposals followed by negotiations with
those submitting the best proposals; and (g) sale of the shares to private investors. The
restructuring/opening of capital plan will explore the best modalities to achieve the above-mentioned
objectives. The modalities to be retained will be agreed upon with the Bank.
27.    The advisor will prepare an information mnemorandum and ensure its distribution and commercial
promotion to potential investors. It will assist the Government in managing the bids, evaluating proposals,
negotiating With partners and concluding the deal. All necessary measures will be taken to conclude the
transactions during the first quarter of 1997.
28.    Togopharma's monopoly over imports and distribution of pharmaceutical products wvas abolished during
the last quarter of 1991. Togo now needs a national agency to handle the supply and wholesale distribution of
essential drugs sold under genenrc names. The agency would sell generic drugs, a restricted number of specialties,
and the most widely used medical supplies to medical facilities in the public sector and the nonprofit private
sector and to private pharmacies. It would be granted the status of a wholesaler/distributor of pharmaceuticals.
As an instrunent of the countrv's national health policy (being required to complv with the national list of
essential drugs), it would come under the technical supervision of the Ministry of Health, but it would have
complete financial and management autonomv. It would not have monopoly status, even vis-a-vis public sector
health facilities.
29.    Togophanna's current retail operations will be privatized through the sale of its existing pharmacies. The
storage units will be sold progressively. Preference could be given to Togopharma's staff as potential purchasers.
Those storage units that are located at a health facility will be used for the sale of drugs within the framework of
the Bamako initiative. Those located in rural areas or far from health facilities will be used for the UNICEF
program of rural pharmacies. Pharmapro could be restructured as an agency to oversee the management and sale
of drugs in health facilities, also within the framework of the Bamako initiative. The ADB project would be
redirected to assist in financing the organization of the new agency. The current pharmaceutical legislation in
Togo, which is outdated and ill-adapted to modem conditions, will be revised. Iegal instruments are being drafted
to establish a regulatorv framework for importers/distributors of pharnaceutical products, as well as the method
for pricing these products (currently under study). A detailed action plan with a financing plan will be submitted
to the Bank before the end of June 1996 and adopted before end-1996.
Regulatory Framework And Incentives
30.    The regulatory framework and incentive policies, which at present are not very conducive to private
enterprise development, will be revised. Togo's liberal approach has been marked bv the elimination of certain



Annex G
Page 8 of 16
interventionist measures, such as government monopolies, tariffs, and non-tariff instruments including import
and export regulations through quotas, import licenses, and price controls.
31.    To help meet its development objectives, and to conform to the new economic environment created bv the
realignment of the CFA franc, the Government intends to pursue its policv of economic liberalization. To this
end. the country's liberal policies will be further strengthened through elimination of the remaining government
trading monopolies and a general easing of regulations. Price controls and profit margin on nrce, sugar, milk
vegetable oils, concrete reinforcing bars, sewing machines, butane gas, tomato paste, cement, wheat flour, iron
rods and beverages were abolished on July 7, 1995 and were effective August 17, 1995.
32.    The agricultural sector should benefit greatly from the exchange rate adjustment. The producer prices of
export crops (cotton, coffee, and cocoa) were increased significantly. The marketing and export of agnrcultural
products will gradually be liberalized, while care will be taken to avoid disrupting production and marketing
operations and to guard against the emergence of other private monopolies or oligopolies. To ensure an increase
in their income and guarantee the sustainabiitv of the system, small farmer organizations will need to be heavily
involved in the liberalization process.
33.    A studv on restructuring agricultural services is under way. The organization of systems of quality
control, input supply, and rural credit svstem will be studied with a view to meeting the needs of farmers and
other economic agents in rural areas. For cotton, steps have been taken to deregulate collecting, transport, and
ginning operations. The producer pnrce of cotton was raised following the devaluation. A minimum producer
price will be established at the start of each crop year. In addition. a drawback mechanism vwill be set up starting
with the 1995-96 crop year so that, once the crop year is over, the after-tax profits can be distnrbuted among the
various stakeholders, i.e. the producers, SOTOCO, and the Government. Producers will receive 50 percent of
after-tax profits starting from the 1995-96 crop season, this share NilU be paid over by SOTOCO to the vilage
farm groups (GAVs), producer associations, and/or individual producers on the basis of the amounts sold, after
reimbursement of amounts still owed for prefinanced inputs and equipment. The arrangement will be revised
subsequentlv as new operators join the sector, and the various stages are liberalized: primary marketing, ginning,
and export. The Government will pursue its policy to reduce marketing, transportation. and processing costs in
the sector.
34.    The National Assembly passed the law providing for cotton marketing operations to be transferred from
OPAT to SOTOCO in September 1994. The decree bringing the transition period to an end and transferning
cotton marketing operations from OPAT to SOTOCO took effect on May 31, 1995. An action plan to liberalize
ginning, and the export of cotton and revise primary mnarketing to promote competition will be prepared before
July 1996. Cotton export liberalization will be effective before end- 1996. Elimination of the coffee and cocoa
export monopoly, and the system for licensing and fixed profit margins on the primary marketing of coffee and
cocoa and the liberalization of their pnces became effective in March 1996. A floor producer price will be
established at the beginning of the crop season. The Government will establish an information system on
intemational prices to allov producers to negotiate and adequately establish their own prices.
35.    The labor code will be revised and implementing decrees enacted before December 31, 1996. The new
labor code wvill be adapted to take account of the new economic environment. It will be more liberal. especially
with regard to regulations governing the hiring and dismissal of workers, with a view to promoting job creation.
The Governnent will transmit a revised version of the code to the Bank for comments, once it has been discussed
by key actors prior to its submission to the National Assembly.



Annex G
Page 9 of 16
36.    With the assistance of the UNDP, the Government has devised a poverty reduction strategy. During the
initial phase, efforts will focus on improving access to isolated villages, so as to reduce the cost of transporting
products into and out of those areas and facilitate mobile health care services.
37.    Thanks to previous adjustment programs, the government authorities have mnade progress in eliminating
structural nrgidities and in correcting weaknesses hampering the country's economic development. These
advances have all encouraged private initiative. In 1995-1998 the Government will strengthen and improve the
public sector's management capacity. To this end, it will reorganize and restructure the ministries to enhance
macroeconomic management, and strengthen the use of policy instruments such as the budget, the public
investment program. and the full range of government regulations.
38.    At the same time, govemment authorities will seek to improve the management and efficiency of the
entire civil service through a program of institutional refbrm and decentralization. The part of this program that
involves regional land planning and decentralization will focus on the following steps: decentralization of
administration, to promote and stimulate socio-economic development throughout the country; participation of the
population in the identification and implementation of development projects and programs; promotion of private
enterprise and support for local development initiatives; promotion of balanced regional development; and
expansion of job opportunities for the poorest segments of the rural and urban population. To achieve these
results, the activities planned will focus on institutional measures to strengthen or create agencies at the central
and regional levels in the areas of regional development and decentralization.
39.    With the assistance of the Bank, the Governnent will resume preparation of the National Environmental
Action Plan (PNAE), which was suspended in 1992 because of political unrest. Completion is scheduled for
September 1996. In the meantime, the Government will formulate an integrated environmental strategy,
lighlighting any negative environmental impact of projects and programs and corresponding corrective measures.
It will also implernent a prioritv programn to improve and strengthen the institutional, legislative, and regulatory
fiamework; manage protected areas and urban waste using labor-intensive technology; fight desertification and
industrial pollution, educate and inform the population about the environment; develop coastal areas, the lagoon
system. and village lands; supply drinking water to rural areas; recover and use natural phosphate fines to
improve soil fertility; finalize the forestry code; and implement the National Forestry Action Plan.
Program Implementation And Supervision
40.    An Interministerial Commission chaired bv the Prime Minister and comprising the Minister of
State, Minister of Economy and Finance; the Minister of Planning; the Minister of Rural Development and
Rural Water, the Minister of Environment and Tourism, the Minister of Commerce, Prices and Transport;
the Minister of Industry and Public Enterprises, the Minister of Labor, Civil Service and Social Affairs; the
Minister of Health and Population and the Minister of Women Promotion and Social Affairs will be in
charge of the monitoring and implementation of the program of reforms supported by the ERAC. The
Ministrv of Planning will report progress on the execution of the program to IDA every three months.



ERAC POLICY MATRIX
POLICY OBJECTIVES                            ERAC MEASURES                           MINISTRY                    CALENDAR
CONCERNED
I.  PUBUC FINANCE             BUSINESS AND INDIRECT TAXATION
(a) Tax and Tariff Reform     Eliminate the compulsory contribution to the FNI.      Economy and Finance         February 1996
Simplify the system of taxation,   Reduce the current dispersion import duties from 5-35% to 5-  Economy and Finance  July 1995
improve its neutrality and    20%.
expand the tax base
Eliminate specific taxes on imports of non-petroleum goods    Economy and Finance  June 1995
(rice, sugar and Wax fabric).
Consolidate the TFR with taxes on petroleum products and  Economy and Finance     May 1995
eliminate the TC.
Abolish the system of cost valuation factors.          Economy and Finance         May 1995
Reduce exoneration through the non renewal of special  Economy and Finance         1995-96
conventions and fiscal incentives under the investment codes.
Eliminate remaining non-tariff barriers and replace them with   Economy and Finance  August 1995
tariffs (cement, bread-flour, and iron).               Commerce Price and
Transport
1996
Implement a program of actions to strengthen custom    Economy and Finance
administration.
(b)  Public expenditures      PIP: Agree on a three-year rolling PIP for 1996-1998 and  Planning                 1996-97
1997-1999.
Restructure current expenditures  Arrears
in favor of priority sectors  Update cross debts and domestic arrears and adopt a    Planning                    1995-96
(health, education and        payment plan.
infrastructure)



POLICY OBJECTIVES                            ERAC MEASURES                           MINISTRY                    CALENDAR
__   _    __       __                                 | ~~~~CONCERNED
Settle cross debts and arrears according to priorities agreed.   Economy and Finance  1996-98
Industry and Public
Enterprises
Wage bill
Limit the wage bill to FCFA 51.1 billion in 1995.      Economy and Finance         1995
Limit the wage bill to FCFA 52.4 billion in 1996.      Economy and Finance        1996
Limit the wage bill to 49% of current primary expenditures in   Economy and Finance
1997.
Budgetary allocation to priority sectors                                           1996-97
Increase non wage expenditures for health, (excluding debt    Economy and Finance
service and externally financed investment) to 10.9% in 1996   Health, Population and Social
and 11.6% in 1997.                                     Affairs
Increase non wage expenditures for education, (excluding  Economy and Finance
debt service and externally financed investment ) to 28.3% in   National Education and
1996 and 29.3% in 1997.                                Scientific Research
Increase road maintenance expenditures to CFAF 2 billion in   Economy and Finances  1996-97
1996 and CFAF 2.5 billion in 1997.                     Equipment
Ensure adequate allocations for government consumption of   Economy and Finance    1996-97
water, electricity and telephone.                      Industry and Public
Enterprises
Furnish a quarterly budget execution summary to IDA at the    Economy and Finance  1996-97
end of each quarter.
PZ
CD
= X
_ 



IPOLICY OBJECTIVES |                           ERAC MEASURES                            MINISTRY                  J CALENDAR
R       |                                                       i ~~~~~~~~~CONCERNED        1       
11.  PUBUC ENTERPRISES
(a) Enhance efficiency of PEs    Complete the SIG reports for 1992, 1993 and 1994.    Industry and Public         June 1996
remaining in Government                                                               Enterprises
portfolio
Complete the SIG reports for 1995.                                                 September 1996
Revise the performance contracts with public utilities CEET,   Industry and Public  September 1996
RNET, OPTT.                                            Enterprises
Increase water and electricity tariffs according to agreed  Industry and Public    October 1995 & June
schedule in 1995 and 1996.                             Enterprises                 1996
Commerce, Price and
Transport
Prepare and implement a cost recovery mechanism for the  Mines, Energy and Water   1996
consumption of water at standpipes.                    Resources
Complete the financial audits for the most important PEs  Industry and Public      1995-97
remaining in the state portfolio (CNSS, EDITOGO, CET and    Enterprises
H6tel le B6nin).
Transfer marketing of cotton from OPAT to SOTOCO.      Industry and Public         May 1995
Enterprises
Rural Development
Select an investment adviser, with experience and      Industry and Public         March 1995
qualifications acceptable to IDA, to assist in the restructuring   Enterprises
of OTP and the search for partners.                    Mines, Energy and Water
Resources
Sell 40 percent of Government shares in OTP.                                       1st quarter of 1997
Transform OPAT into a small export entity under majority  Industry and Public      June 1996
private ownership.                                     Enterprises
Rural Development
Adopt and implement an action plan for state divestiture from   Industry and Public  December 1996
the hotel sector in Lome (Hotel 2 Fevrier, La Paix, Sarakawa,   Enterprises
Tropicana).                                            Tourism
00



POLICY OBJECTIVES                              ERAC MEASURES                            MINISTRY                      CALENDAR
-|CONCERNED
Complete sale of provincial hotels (Le Lac, Kara, Central,                           June 1996
Fazao, Roc, 30 AoOt).
Analyze the bids and finalize the transactions.                                      September 1996
Relaunch the bids for the sale of NOUVELLE SOTOMA and    Industry and Public         May 1996
UPROMA.                                                  Enterprises
Prepare a divestiture plan for SONAPH.                                               May 1996
Implement the divestiture plan.                                                      December 1996
Transfer state-ownership of SOTED to the employees.                                  June 1996
Prepare a divestiture plan for SATAL.                    Industry and Public         June 1996
Enterprises
Implement divestiture plan.                              Rural Development           September 1996
Complete sale of Government shares in the following
enterprises:
SIT, TOGOGAZ                                                                     June 1996
Brasseries du B6nin, SOTONAM                                                      September 1996
SITO                                                                              September 1996
CIMTOGO, SGMT                                                                     March 1997
Analyze the offers and finalize the transactions
SIT, TOGOGAZ                                                                      September 1996
Brasseries du B6nin, SOTONAM                                                      December 1996
SITO                                                                              March 1997
CIMTOGO, SGMT                                                                     September 1997
Transform TOGOGRAIN into an administrative entity.       Industry and Public         June 1996
Enterprises
Liberalize export of cotton-lint                         Industry and Public          December 1996
Implement a divestiture action plan for TOGOPHARMA.      Enterprises                 June 1996
Health, Population and Social
Implement the action plan for TOGOPHARMA and transform    Affairs                    December 1996
it into a structure for the importation of generic medication in
concurrence with the private sector.
P~x
FN C)



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
POLICY OBJECTIVES |ERAC MEASURES                                                       |MINISTRY                   |CALEND ARl
I CONCERNED                 l
IMI.  INCENTIVE AND            AGRICULTURE SECTOR
REGULATORY
FRAMEWORK                 COTTON
Eliminate distortions to private    Transfer 50% of SOTOCO's after tax profits to producers.  Industry and Public    Starting with 1995-96
sector activities and promote a                                                          Enterprises                 crop season
strong private sector led supply                                                         Rural Development
response to the recent
devaluation                    Prepare an action plan for the liberalization of the cotton  Industry and Public      July 1996
sector.                                                  Enterprises
Rural Development
COFFEE AND COCOA
Liberalize producer prices for coffee and cocoa.         Industry and Public         March 1996
Enterprises
Commerce, Prices and
Transport
Abolish public sector monopolies on marketing and export of   Rural Development       March 1996
coffee and cocoa.                                        Commerce, Prices and
Transport
Abolish fixed margins and licensing system for marketing  Rural Development           March 1996
activities of coffee and cocoa.                          Commerce, Price and
Transport
NON-AGRICUL TURE SECTOR
Eliminate price controls (cement, iron rods, wheat flour, beer   Commerce, Price and  July 1995
and soft drinks, plastic pipes) and fixed profit margins (sugar,  Transport
rice, vegetable oil, milk, tomato paste, domestic gas, and
sewing machines).
Revise the investment code.                              Planning                     December 1996
Industry and Public
Enterprises
i 



POLICY OBJECTIVES                                ERAC MEASURES                              MINISTRY                    |CALENDAR
_  1                                                | ~~~~~~CONCERNEDl  
Revise the labor code and its implementing decrees.        Labor, Civil Service and      December 1996
Social Affairs
Industry and Public
Enterprises (CCAIT)
Private Sector
Representatives
Industry and Public          December 1996
Revise the pharmaceutical law.                             Enterprises
Adopt a regulatory framework for the import and distribution    Health and Population    March 1996
of drugs.
Adopt a tariff structure favoring the use of generic drugs.                              June 1996
-;
v. 



Annex G
Page 16 of 16
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
Summary Table - Arrears Settlement Plan
Type of Enterprise       Net Arrears           Share     Share of total Annual
end 1993             of Total    Resources Allocated
(millions of CFAF)   Arrears   to Arrears Settlement
in the Program
Public Enterprises             18,298.6         74%              65%
CEET                   5,517.7        22%
RNET                   2,549.0        10%
CEETIRNET              8,066.7        33%               40%
OPTT                   8,369.1        34%
Autres                 1,862.8         8%
OPTT and others       10,231.9        41%               25%
Private Enterprises             6,471.2         26%              35%
Small Creditors         474.1          2%               12%
Others                 5,997.1        24%               23%
TOTAL                          24,769.8        100%              100%
NB: The share of resources to be allocated to Public Enterprises (65%)
and Private enterprises (35%) remains constant untill full settlement
of arrears in one of the two categories. The share within each
category can change as arrears to one of the sub-categories
are fully settled.
Under CFAF 50 million









IMAG ING
Report No: P-   6859 TO
Type: PR



