RESTRICTED
FILE     CR     Y                Report No. P-599
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accurocy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INDUSTRIAL AND MINING DEVELOPMENT BANK
OF IRAN
May 16, 1968



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
INDUSTRIAL AND MINING DEVELOPMENT BANK OF IRAN
1.   I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to U.S. $25 million to the
Industrial and Mining Development Bank of Iran (IMDBI).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.   IMDBI was established in October 1959.   The Bank has so far made three
loans to it amounting to a total of $h0.2 million. The first loan of
$5.2 million was made in November 1959, but was not fully committed to sub-
projects until mid-1965, largely due to the economic recession in Iran in
the early 1960's. The second loan of $10 million was signed in July 1965
and was fully committed by May 1967. A third loan of $25 million was made
in July 1966 which is expected to be almost fully committed within the next
two months.
3.   In view of the high rate of commitment of its foreign exchange re-
sources, IMDBI approached the Bank in early 1967 for a fourth loan, and an
appraisal mission visited Iran last August/September. Loan negotiations
with Mr. A. Gasem Kheradjou, Managing Director of IMDBI, were held in
Washington during the second half of March. Dr. E. Shapoorian of the
Iranian Economic Mission in Washington took part in the negotiations on
behalf of the Guarantor.
4.   The proposed loan would be the Bank's eleventh for a project in Iran.
The International Development Association has extended no credits to Iran.
The following is a summary statement of Bank loans for projects in Iran as
at April 30, 1968.



-2-
Amount
(US $ Million)
Year   No.   Borrower      Purpose                    Bank    Undisbursed
1957   160     Iran    General Development            75.0        -
1959   227     Iran    Road Construction              72.0        _
1959   240     IMDBI   Assist Private Industry         5.0        -
1960   247     Iran    Dez Multipurpose Project       42.0        -
1964   381     Iran    Road Construction              18.5       5.9
1965   410     Iran    Road Construction              32.0      25.5
1965   411     Iran    Feeder Roads                    8.5       6.1
1965   422     IMDBI   Assist Private Industry         9.9        .4
1966   459     IMDBI   Assist Private Industry        25.0      11.5
1967   517     Iran    Agricultural Development       22.0      22.0
Total (less cancellations)            309.9
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                 108.2
Total now outstanding                 201.7
Amount sold                   21.6
of which has been repaid   18.6      3.0
Total now held by Bank                198.7
Total undisbursed                                71.4
Disbursements under the three previous loans to II4DBI have all been at a
satisfactory rate once commitments to sub-projects had been made. Of the
other loans, Loan 160 IRN is fully repaid and Loans 227, 240 and 247 IRN
are fully disbursed. Of the undisbursed balance of $71.4 million for the
remaining loans, $37.5 million is for the three road projects financed
in 1964 and 1965. Disbursements for Loan 381 IRN have proceeded generally
satisfactorily on most project items, but the Government has recently
requested a postponement of the Closing Date to allow completion of one of
the roads under the project. Disbursements for the two road loans made in
1965 have been slow because of initial delays in selecting consultants and
awarding construction contracts. However, these difficulties are being
overcome and satisfactory progress is now expected in the execution of
most of the works. Except for one road under Loan 410 IRN, construction
should be completed before the respective Closing Dates in 1969 and 1970.



5.   So far IFC has only made one investment in Iran in an amount of
$300,000 in Sherkat Sahami Kahkeshan, a ceramic tile plant, in 1960.
IFC is presently considering a request from IMBI to participate in the
financing of a steel rolling mill and a diesel engine factory.
6.   In addition to the proposed loan to INDBI, the Ebnk is at present
considering a loan for a second feeder road project. The Iranian author-
ities are preparing additional information required for the appraisal of
this project. Also under consideration is a loan for the Greater Dez
irrigation project, which would permit further use of the water provided
by the Dez multipurpose project financed through Loan 2k7 IRN in 1960.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.   Borrower:                      Industrial and Mining Development
Bank of Iran
Guarantor:                     Iran
Amount:                        U.S. $25 million equivalent in various
currencies.
Purpose:                       To assist IMDBI in financing the foreign
exchange cost of projects primarily in manu-
facturing, undertaken by private enter-
prises in Iran.
Amortization:                  The schedule of amortization payments,
due semi-annually on January 15 and
July 15, will conform substantially to
the aggregate of the amortization sched-
ules applicable to IMDBI's sub-loan and
investments made out of the proceeds of
the loan, such schedules not to extend
beyond 15 years from the time the re-
spective amounts are credited to the
Loan Account. Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement will be amended accordingly
from time to time.
Interest Rate:                 The rate of interest payable on each
part of the loan credited to the loan
Account will be the Bank's standard
rate in effect at the time of crediting.
Commitment Charge:             3/4 of 1 percent per annum.



- 4 -
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.   A report entitled "Appraisal of the Industrial and Mining Develop-
ment Bank of Iran" (DB-39a) is attached.
9.   IMDBI was established in October 1959 by Iranian and foreign investors
to finance private industrial development in Iran through medium and long-
term loans and investments in share capital. IMDBI is particularly active
in identifying investment opportunities, in arranging for technical advice
and participation of domestic and foreign private capital for such invest-
ments and in developing a capital market.   IMDBI has obtained resources
amounting to nearly US $79 million equivalent including share capital of
US $9.6 million, an interest-free, long term government advance of US $8
million, foreign exchange loans of US $43.7 million (including $3.5 million
from AID) and government loans of US $16.7 million. In addition, INDBI
manages government funds of about US $33 million for investment in private
enterprises. Twenty percent of IlDBI's share capital is held by foreign
investors.
10. Following a slow start caused largely by a recession of the Iranian
economy in the early sixties, IMDBI's business has risen rapidly in the
past three years.  From 1959 up to February 19, 1968,UIMDBI had committed
an aggregate amount of about U.S. $105 million for a total of 224 loans.
Of the loans outstanding at the end of February 1968, about 40 percent was
in foreign currency and the remainder in Rials. Up to the same time,
IMDBI had made equity commitments in 21 projects amounting to about
U.S. $9.6 million equivalent of which about U.S. $6.4 million equivalent
had been paid in.
11.  Roughly 45 percent of the loans at June 21, 1967, both in number and
amount, has been for new facilities, the rest mainly for expansion of
existing facilities. The greater part of the loans had been made for
projects for metal and food processing, construction materials, chemicals,
electrical appliances and textiles.
12. IMDBI has grown into a well organized and well run development
finance company. Its management and staff are experienced and competent.
IMDBI has established good relations with the Government and Irants private
industry. Aside from contributing an important share of total private
industrial investment, often in industries new to Iran, IMDBI has performed
an important function in promoting a shift on the part of landlords,
merchants and young Iranians from more traditional activities into manu-
facturing. IMDBI considers the promotion of new projects as one of its
major contributions to Iran's industry. This activity, often involving
foreign investors, has represented an increasing share of IMDBI's opera-
tions and has also laid a heavy claim on the energies and time of IMDBI's
top management. IMDBI is a leader in equity investments in Iran and has
done much to get the Tehran Stock Exchange launched and to spread modern
business practices.



- 5 -
13. Assuming that the recent rapid expansion of Iran's industrial sector
and the high rate of overall economic growth are maintained, IMfBI expects
to make commitments for loans and investments of about US $104 million
equivalent during the two-year period ending March 20, 1970, including
US $40 million in foreign currency. This would represent an increase
of abou-t 70 percent over the two-year period ending March 20, 1968.
Most of this increase is due to occur in 1968/69 when several large
projects already approved are expected to lead to commitments. IMDBI's
business forecasts depend in an important measure on the realisation of
these large projects. The projections do not appear unreasonable but a
delay in some of the large projects might affect them.
14.  Against projected commitments of about Rls. 7.8 billion (US $104
million equivalent) and debt repayments of Rls. 1.1 billion (US $14.7
million equivalent) during the two-year period until March 20, 1970,
IMDBI expects to have available about Rls. 3.0 billion from borrowers'
repayments, loans previously contracted, retained earnings and funds
managed for the Government. Additional Rls. 5.9 billion (US $79 million
equivalent) are thus required, including about US $40 million in foreign
exchange. The Government has recently agreed to make available to IMDI
during this period loans in an amount of Rls. 2.7 billion (US $36
million). The proposed Bank loan would help to cover the foreign exchange
requirements.
15. Though the cost of its resources has risen in recent years and its
loan charges have been kept for several years at 8 percent per annum,
DMBI's financial performance has been satisfactory. Annual net profits
have nearly doubled since March 1964 amounting, according to provisional
figures, to about US $1.5 million in 1967/68 or about 15% of IMDBI's
average net worth. IMDBI's loan portfolio, which is well diversified, is
generally good though it is at times affected by irregular payment habits.
The equity portfolio is still unseasoned.
16. In view of IMDBI's good performance, its present limit for loans
using Bank funds and not requiring the Bank's prior approval should be
increased from US $750,000 to US $1 million. On present estimates, this
limit would require the presentation for approval of projects involving
more than one-half of the amount of the proposed loan.
17. With the Government's endorsement, IMDBI looks again to the Bank for
meeting its foreign exchange needs. IMDBI deserves the Bank's support
although in the future, it is hoped, IMDBI will find ways of tapping other
sources of external financLng in addition to the Bank. In view of the un-
certainties inherent in the business forecasts, it seems preferable at
this time to make a loan which would not materially exceed the estimated
foreign exchange needs for one year, i.e. $25 million. If delays occurred
in some larger projects, as is possible, this amount would be sufficient
to meet IMDBI's needs for more than one and perhaps even for two years.
IMDBI would be a suitable and creditworthy borrower for a Bank loan of
this size.



- 6 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
18. The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and DMDBI, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between Iran and the Bank and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements generally follow the pattern of
agreements for Bank loans to development finance companies.   IMDBI's
capacity to incur debt is limited to 4.5 times its capital and surplus
as defined in Section 5.11 of the draft Loan Agreement.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
19. A report "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Iran" (AS-123a)
wzas distributed to the Executive Directors on March 31, 1967. In the
Iranian year ending March 1968, the economy continued the vigorous growth
experienced in the last few years. According to latest estimates, GNP
increased by 8 percent in r6al terms. The increase in oil revenue of
over 23 percent was especially great, owiung mainly to larger sales of
crude oil during the Middle East crisis. Agricultural production continued
to rise slowly. The output of manufacturing rose by about 10 percent, but
still accounts for only 1lh percent of GNP. The petroleum industry contri-
buted on average 13 percent of GNP and 70 percent of foreign exchange earnings
in the last five years.
20. The Fourth Development Plan (1968-1973), which came into effect on
March 21, places more emphasis on agricultural and industrial development
than the Third Plan. The two sectors are expected to receive almost half
of the $11 billion capital expenditure planned for the period as compared
to less than 35 percent during the previous period. The Government intends
to maintain a favourable attitude to private investment and further expan-
sion is expected especially in the mechanical and petrochemical industries.
Public investment will also play a major role and will include projects in
heavy industry and large-scale agriculture.
21. Some difficulties have been experienced in the industrial and
agricultural sectors. Additional efforts will be required to ensure
effective development in agriculture particularly following the land
reform. Industry is still at an early stage of development. The
mechanism for financing private investments is still weak although IMDBI's
activities are bringing about improvements. The scattered nature of the
consumer markets and the emphasis on establishing import substitution
industries in recent years add to the difficulties. An economic mission
is scheduled to visit Iran during the summer of 1968 to review the Fourth
Plan and examine in particular developments and problems in agriculture
and industry.
22. The financing of public capital expenditure in 1967 involved greater
use of bank credit than in previous years. Because of an insufficient
level of public savings, the Government increased its recourse to the
banking system by 70 percent over 1966. Money supply rose by 20 percent



but prices remained stable because of the exceptional increase in oil
exports which made possible higher imports and even a $26 million build-
up in foreign exchange reserves. External debt service payments are now
equivalent to 7 percent of export earnings.
23. Experience in the last twelve months supports the conclusion of the
last economic report that economic performance is satisfactory on the
whole and that Iran is creditworthyfor substantial amounts of additional
borrowing on conventional terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
2h. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
25. I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
"RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Industrial and Mining Development
Bank of Iran in an amount equivalent to U.S. $25,000,000
to be guaranteed by Iran.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Industrial and Mining Development
Bank of Iran to be guaranteed by Iran, in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-five million United States dollars (U.S. $25,000,000),
to mature on and prior to the date or dates to be determined as set forth
in the form of Loan Agreement (Fourth Development Finance Corporation
Project) between the Bank and Industrial and Mining Development Bank of
Iran, which has been presented to this meeting, to bear interest at the
rate or rates of interest to be determined as set forth therein, and to
be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in ac-
cordance with the terms and conditions set forth in said form of Loan Agree-
ment and in the form of Guarantee Agreement (Fourth Development Finance
Corporation Project) between Iran and the Bank, which have been presented
to this meeting."
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
May 16, 1968



