Document of
FILE COPY                                 The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P -2 301 -BEN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A
COTONOU PORT PROJECT
May 26, 1978
This doument has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =      CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00           -      CFAF 245
CFAF 1 million    =      US$4,081
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEMS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: Metric
Metric                         British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2       0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )      0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)          2,204 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)  3             2.47 acres
a cubic meter (m )             1.308 cubic yards
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF       Abu Dhabi Fund
AfDB      African Development Bank
BADEA     Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
BCEOM     Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements d'Outre-Mer
BOAD      Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
EDF       European Development Fund
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
NTF       Nigeria Trust Fund
OBEMAP    Office Beninois des Manutentions Portuaires
OCBN      Organisation Commune Benin-Niger des Chemins de Fer et des Transports
PAC       Port Autonome de Cotonou
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
UNCTAD    United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BENIN
COTONOU PORT PROJECT
Project Summary
Borrower:          People's Republic of Benin
Beneficiary:       The Port Autonome de Cotonou (PAC)
Amount:            US$11 million
Terms:             Standard IDA terms
Relending Terms:  7.5 percent interest for a period of 20 years, including
5 years of grace
Project            The project would expand the physical capacity of the port
Description:      from 720,000 tons per year to about 1,100,000 tons, increase
productivity by improving port and cargo handling operations
and training, and assist the Government in introducing an
adequate tariff structure for the transit of goods. It
would develop the transit traffic which constitutes one of
Benin's most important economic activities by removing one
of the major bottlenecks on the Cotonou-Niger and Cotonou-
Nigeria axes. The project risks are linked to Benin's
undertaking an investment which would also serve Niger and
Nigeria without a formal commitment by these two countries
to the project. However, the competitive advantages of
Cotonou are strong enough to assure that both Niger and
Nigeria will continue using it.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost (net of duties and taxes) 1/:
--------US$ million--------
Local      Foreign     Total
Preliminary Studies 2/                          0.03        0.57        0.60
Civil Works                                     8.08       24.24       32.32
Supervision Civil Works                         0.69        1.03        1.72
Technical Assistance, Training and Studies   0.83           1.49        2.32
Contingencies                                   2.37        6.76        9.13
Physical                                     (0.81)      (2.42)      (3.23)
Prices                                       (1.56)      (4.34)      (5.90)
TOTAL                                          12.00       34.09       46.09
1/   From which the project is exempted.
2/   $0.5 million financed under Project Preparation Facility; $0.1 million
financed by BADEA.
Financing Plan (in US$ million):
/  Supervision    Technical Assist.
PPF   Civil Works-   Civil Works -  Training & Studies-  TOTAL
Joint
IDA            0.50     6.50              1.70               2.30           11.00
Norway          -        8.30              -                  -              8.30
AfDB (NTF) 2/  -         2.94              -                  -              2.94
FAC             -        1.50              -                  -              1.50
Parallel
CIDA            -      10.00               -                  -             10.00
BADEA          0.10     4.50               -                  -              4.60
Abu Dhabi       -        2.62              -                  -              2.62
CCCE            -       3.12               -                  -              3.12
Government/PAC   -         1.30             0.30               0.41            2.01
TOTAL          0.60    40.78              2.00               2.71           46.09
1/   Including contingencies.
2/   Nigerian Trust Fund administered by the AfDB.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursement (US$ million):
FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82
Annual                                  0.50    1.14    7.22    1.82    0.32
Cumulative                              0.50    1.64    8.86   10.68   11.00
Economic Rate        37 percent for the region (including Niger and Nigeria);
of Return:          25 percent for Benin alone.
Staff Project
Report:             No. 1983-BEN






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOIMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR THE COTONOU PORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Benin for the equivalent
of $11.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance the Cotonou Port
Project. The project would be co-financed by the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab
Economic Development (ADF), the Banque Arabe pour le Developpement en Afrique
(BADEA), the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), the French Fonds d'Aide
et de Cooperation (FAC), the African Development Bank (AfDB) as agent of
the Nigerian Trust Fund (NTF) and the Kingdom of Norway (see paragraph 54).
From the proceeds of the Credit $9.7 million would be relent to the port
of Cotonou (PAC) for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
7.5 percent per annum; $0.7 million would be passed on by the Government to
OBEMAP and OCBN 1/ in the form of a grant.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Benin, Report No. 191a-DA entitled
"Economic Position and Prospects of Dahomey" was issued on August 20, 1973.
An economic mission visited Benin in the fall of 1977. The following para-
graphs include the main findings and conclusions of that mission. Discus-
sions of the report are scheduled for this summer.
3.        With a GNP per capita of only $130, Benin is classified by the
UN as one of the world's 29 least developed countries. It is an overwhelm-
ingly rural nation: about 70 percent of the population is dependent on agri-
culture which accounts for about 40 percent of GDP and a large share of foreign
exchange earnings. Insufficient and irregular rainfall limits the production
of high value tree crops. Seventy percent of the total agricultural output
consists of subsistence low-value root crops (yams and cassava). Palm oil,
cotton and groundnuts are the country's major export crops. GDP per capita
in the rural sector is very low, averaging about US$70.
4.        Transport and commerce constitute the second most important activ-
ities in Benin. The Port of Cotonou has traditionally been the door to the
sea for landlocked Niger and a transit port for the western part of Nigeria.
Due to the recent congestion of the port of Lagos, the transit function of
the Cotonou Port has further developed.
5.        The country has an embryonic industrial sector, consisting of
vegetable oil processing and import substitution. The few known mineral
resources--limestone and phosphate--have not yet been exploited, although
1/   Office Beninois des Manutentions Portuaires (OBEMAP) and Organisation
Commune Benin-Niger des Chemins de Fer et des Transports (OCBN).



- 2 -
there are plans in the near future to start exploiting the Onigbolo lime-
stone deposit. There is also evidence of the existence of oil offshore.
Political Situation and Recent Economic Development
6.        Since independence in 1960, there were numerous changes in govern-
ment, largely due to a tripartite power struggle based on the three tradi-
tional kingdoms which formed the country. No single leader was able to
maintain political domination for very long. This unstable situation cul-
minated in 1970 with the establishment of a ruling triumvirate which brought
the decision-making process to a virtual halt.
7.        A major turning point occurred at the end of 1972, when the pres-
ent military government came to power and established a socialist regime
which took immediate measures to replace the foreign domination of the modern
sector by state control and to strengthen the Government's involvement in
the agricultural sector. Foreign private interests in key sectors (banking
and credit, gasoline distribution, services related to the port and industry)
were nationalized, and the various technical assistance programs in the rural
sector were scaled down. These measures initially disrupted the economy
since there was an inadequate number of Beninese to replace the departing
expatriates. Another consequence of the policy shift was the leveling off
of total investment which remained at a relatively low level ($23 per capita
per year, compared to $50 in Togo and $110 in the Ivory Coast) between 1972
and 1976. Foreign aid donors limited their intervention to infrastructure
projects which did not involve controversial policy issues. However, the
Government also pursued conservative financial policies which resulted in
budgetary surpluses and the maintenance of the debt service ratio at less
than five percent.
8.        In the agricultural sector, the institutional changes did not
succeed in reversing a stagnation in food crop and palm oil production while
cotton production decreased. New provincial agricultural agencies, marketing
organizations and support institutions were set up from 1974 onwards which,
because of financial and technical shortcomings, have not yet reached their
full efficiency. Official prices for most cash crops have been held too low
to be worthwhile for the farmer, as the Government has mostly been guided by
its desire to keep the cost of living and the level of salaries low in the
urban areas. In late 1976, when a poor harvest drove prices up, the Govern-
ment attempted, without success, to hold down the prices for maize and to
prohibit traditional border trade with Nigeria, which constitutes an impor-
tant outlet for the maize produced in the eastern part of the country. The
situation improved greatly in 1977, when the fixed price formula for grain
was abandoned. The Government is looking for alternative solutions to
control traditional trade with Nigeria, such as the creation of provincial
marketing agencies which would buy grain production at fixed floor prices.
9.        Industry, transport and commerce have grown rapidly (about 10 per-
cent per year) between 1972 and 1976, largely due to the proximity of Nigeria.
Benin's relatively low prices, availability of low cost manpower (although
unskilled), good transport facilities and a convertible currency give it
some comparative advantage as a manufacturing base for the Nigerian market



(beverages and textiles). The fast growth in transport and commerce is
linked to Benin's increasing importance as an "entrepot" for Nigeria, in
addition to its transit role for Niger.
10.       There has been a significant improvement in the central Govern-
ment's current financial situation over the last decade. The chronic cur-
rent budget deficit of the 1960's, financed by French Treasury transfers,
was eliminated during the first half of the seventies. In 1976 and 1977
the budget registered surpluses averaging a high 25 percent of current reve-
nues, permitting a $32 million build-up of gross reserves over the two-year
period. During 1972-77 the Government controlled the growth of current
expenditures, which did not increase in real terms during the period. The
1976/77 surplus was due to the sudden rise of tax revenues resulting from
the growing transit trade to Nigeria and also, to a lesser extent, to the
development of industrial activities. This recent improvement should ease
the burden of recurrent cost financing.
11.       The Government is committed to broad based socio-economic poli-
cies, but the Government's main concern hitherto has been to keep wages and
salaries low because of limited public revenues. In real terms, both public
and private sector salaries have declined. Cash incomes of the farmers may
have increased slightly; the losses resulting from the drop in cotton pro-
duction probably having been made up by increased exports of maize to Nigeria.
Thus Benin is one of those very rare West African countries where the gap
between urban and rural income may have shrunk in the recent years. Educa-
tion is one of the Government's top priorities. It is in the process of
implementing reforms aimed at both adjusting the education system to the
needs of the country, and reducing the high cost of formal education which
absorbs about one-third of the Government's budget.
Prospects
12.       In the medium term,the outlook for economic growth in Benin is
more favorable than in the recent past as a result of the recovery induced
by Nigeria's continued strong demand for food, re-exports, and services and
by the impact on the economy of a higher level of investment, supported in
large part by foreign aid. This outlook assumes a higher level of investment
in transport and the initiation of two large industrial projects financed
jointly with Nigeria to produce sugar and cement for the Nigerian market.
These projects are in an advanced stage of preparation, but the extent of
their benefits to the Benin economy will depend on the negotiation of favor-
able prices with Nigeria and the efficiency of their operations. Benin's
growth prospects will, moreover, depend on effective pricing and marketing
policies in the rural sector and on the maintenance of good relations with
Nigeria and Niger. Subject to these reservations, growth during 1977-1983
is thus expected to average 6 percent p.a. In the long term, Benin's growth
potential will be limited by poor resources to perhaps 4 percent per year, and
even the achievement of this rate will depend on the ability of Government to
channel resources and orient programs (in social and economic infrastructure,
training, marketing, etc.), to the development of food and, to a lesser
extent, cash crops.



- 4 -
13.       The country's capacity for project preparation, financing, and
administration is insufficient to permit execution of the large investment
program (which would represent more than 50 percent of GDP) presently en-
visaged in the Three-Year State Plan, and many projects in industry and
infrastructure will need to be scaled down and extended over a longer period.
A level of public investment of $170 million per year, equivalent to some 17
percent of GDP over the 1978-82 period, appears realistic. This may include
for example, in addition to the proposed port project and some complementary
work on the Benin Route, the two enclave projects in sugar and cement men-
tioned above. Investment in the rural sector will be limited before the
early 1980's until institutional reforms have been consolidated and foreign
donors are willing to commit additional resources to the sector.
14.       Under these conditions, and also assuming that the Government con-
tinues its orthodox financial policy, the public finance situation should
remain quite satisfactory, allowing for some badly needed increases in re-
current expenditures, and a 15 percent contribution to the investment program
(compared to zero over the 1970-1975 period). The balance of payments would
remain in equilibrium with public capital inflows making up for the widening
current resource gap. However, the situation is very sensitive to the success
of the large industrial undertakings mentioned earlier. For example, the
Save sugar plant alone could result in a deficit that would cancel out most
of the Central Government's surplus if adequate prices are not obtained from
Nigeria.
15.       Benin's total external debt (including undisbursed), which until
1976 had remained relatively low amounting to $200 million with a debt
service equivalent to less than five percent of the country's exports, is
expected to substantially increase as investments increase and borrowing
conditions harden. Debt service is expected to account for 10 percent of
export earnings in 1980,and 12 percent in 1985. These ratios approach the
upper limit of Benin's debt servicing capacity in view of the size of its
economy and its dependence on a few exports.
16.       In view of the country's low per capita income, the growing need
for external funding of priority projects in an expanding economy, and Benin's
exposure to widely fluctuating world market conditions, the major part of
foreign financing necessary to sustain economic growth should continue to
be provided on concessionary terms. Benin is expected to be able to finance
only about 15 percent of its overall public investment program. Thus foreign
donors should continue to provide a large share of total project costs, in-
cluding the financing of local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
17.       To date the Bank Group has extended 8 credits to Benin, totalling
US$56.8 million. Three of the credits were for agriculture (22 percent of
total lending) and four for highway construction and maintenance (70 percent).
The seventh operation was an education project with a large rural training



component. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations
in Benin as of April 30, 1978, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
18.       The Hinvi Agricultural Development Project (1969), which provided
for palm plantings and food crop development, was IDA's first operation
in Benin. The project has been completed satisfactorily although two con-
secutive years of drought have retarded the growth of palm trees. Yields
are expected to be 20 percent below appraisal estimates because of limited
rainfall. The Second Agricultural Credit was the Zou-Borgou Cotton Project
(1972).  This operation, co-financed by FAC, was aimed at expanding cotton
and food crop production in the Zou and Borgou provinces. Due to organiza-
tional and managerial problems in the agricultural sector and to insufficient
producer prices and low rainfall, the project failed to achieve its main
objective, resulting in a severe setback to Benin's cotton program. A tech-
nical assistance project to help remedy the situation and to prepare for a
possible follow-up project is now underway. The project Performance Audit
Report for the Zou-Borgou project was issued in April, 1978; the one for
Hinvi is expected to be circulated shortly.
19.       The Bank Group's involvement in the transport sector in Benin began
in 1969, when the Bank acted as Executing Agency for a UNDP "Land Transport
Study." This study led to the financing of a four-year (1970-74) Highway
Maintenance Project, followed by a Second Highway Project in 1973. Under
the first project, the government department then responsible for maintenance
was re-organized and a training program was carried out. The Second Highway
Project, co-financed by USAID, comprises principally the reconstruction of 320
km of the Parakou-Malanville road, Benin's most important north-south trunk
road which links Cotonou to the Niger border, and the continuation of the road
maintenance program. This project was completed in June 1977 with the help of
a supplementary credit of $9 million due to severe cost overruns. The Third
Highway Project, approved in November 1977, provides for the rehabilitation of
a 107 km section of the southern part of the north-south axis (between Godomey
and Bohicon) and the expansion of the maintenance program, including the
elimination of the backlog in resurfacing bituminous and laterite roads.
In addition, a Feeder Roads Project which provides for the construction and
maintenance of about 1,270 km of feeder roads and for the preparation of a
long term feeder road development program in support of agriculture, was
approved in FY 1977.
20.       The First Education Project provides for the improvement of ongoing
rural youth training programs and the construction and equipment of a skills
upgrading center in Cotonou. The project also includes a pre-investment study
for a follow-up training/education project currently under preparation.
21.       In the future, IDA operations will focus mainly on education and the
development of rural areas, including the oncho-free zones. In the transport
sector, IDA will continue to assist the Government in developing its road
network and in strengthening maintenance.



- 6 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
22.       The Ministry of Transport is in charge of overall transport activi-
ties (infrastructure and transport industry). The Port is operated by the
Port Autonome de Cotonou (PAC) which is responsible for the pilotage and berth-
ing of vessels and for operating and maintaining the Port. The Office Beninois
des Manutentions Portuaires (OBEMAP) is responsible for practically all cargo
handling and stevedoring within the Port. The railroad is operated by the
Organisation Commune Benin-Niger des Chemins de Fer et des Transports (OCBN)--
an autonomous agency--established by the governments of Benin and Niger to
manage all transport on the Benin Route with the exception of uranium, which
is carried exclusively by the Societe Nationale des Transports Nigeriens.
23.       Transport and commerce, which rely heavily on Benin's entrepot and
transit function, accounted for 25 percent of GDP in 1976, thereby generating
a large share of foreign exchange and employing 15,000 persons in the modern
sector.
24.       Benin's transport system consists of about 7,200 km of roads, 580 km
of railways, a deepwater port and an international airport in Cotonou.  The
Port of Cotonou is the starting point for the Benin Route which extends from
Cotonou to landlocked Niger.  This transport link consists of the Port, a 440
km railway extending from Cotonou to Parakou, and is completed by a 320 km
two-lane paved road from Parakou to Malanville, hence through Niger to Niamey.
The Benin Route carries most of Niger's overseas trade. Because of the con-
gestion in Lagos since 1976, Cotonou has also become a transit port for
Nigeria and its general cargo traffic doubled to 700,000 tons between 1974
and 1977.
25.       The Government's two main objectives in the transport sector consist
of strengthening the main transit axes (Cotonou-Niamey and Cotonou-Lagos) and
building up a satisfactory road network, including feeder roads and road
maintenance capacity. The proposed project should help implement the first
objective, since it would remove the main bottlenecks on the two transit axes.
The Association has helped with maintenance under three highway projects and
the feeder road project. Upon completion of the third highway project, Benin
should have the technical capacity to maintain its road network. Financing of
recurrent costs may, however, remain an issue.
Transit Function
26.       The Benirn Route provides the shDrtest and cheapest ocean access for
the western part of Niger, including Niamey. Niger is expected to achieve
rapid growth with the further development of uranium mining over the next
5-10 years. The import traffic through Cotonou for these mines has already
substantially increased over the last two years. In 1977, Niger's general
cargo traffic (140,000 tons) accounted for 20 percent of the general cargo
traffic of the Port of Cotonou and 70 percent of the railway freight.



- 7 -
27.        Limited port and rail facilities in Nigeria, coupled with the
dramatic increase of its imports, have resulted in extraordinary congestion
in Nigerian ports. Waiting time for berths can be counted in months and
ships have to be diverted to ports in neighboring countries. Nigeria-destined
transit traffic, which was small until 1974, jumped to 330,000 tons in 1977,
of which 190,000 tons consisted of direct transit trade and 140,000 tons of
goods consigned to Benin for later shipment to Nigeria. In 1977, traffic to
Nigeria accounted for 50 percent of the general cargo traffic of Cotonou.
28.        Present traffic in Cotonou considerably surpasses the existing
capacity. Congestion at Cotonou has caused an increase in waiting time and
ship servicing which resulted in freight rate surcharges of 20 to 35 percent
in 1977. Congestion has also caused the diversion of traffic to other ports.
In 1977, 300,000 tons of transit traffic for Nigeria had to be refused and
60,000 tons bound for Niger had to be diverted to Lome.
Traffic Projections
29.        The total cargo (imports and exports) handled by the Port of Cotonou
is projected to increase from its present level of 700,000 tons (1977) to 1.4
million tons by 1990. This figure is made as follows: traffic for Benin
alone which will increase from 225,000 tons to 500,000 tons during the period;
traffic for Niger which will increase from 140,000 tons to over 500,000; and
traffic for Nigeria which is expected to increase from 330,000 tons in 1977 to
about 420,000 in 1981 and to stabilize thereafter at about 300,000 tons, i.e.
about half of the present demand (600,000 tons), as port congestion in Nigerian
eases. On the basis of recent trends, it is assumed that about 50 percent of
this traffic (150,000 tons) would be direct transit to Nigeria. This re-
presents about 1.5 percent of the total break-bulk cargo traffic expected to
be handled at Lagos in 1983/84 and possibly 5 percent of break-bulk cargo
imports destined for the western part of Nigeria which, geographically speak-
ing, constitutes a part of the hinterland of the Port of Cotonou. The proposed
project, which would be completed in 1981, would meet projected traffic
requirements through the mid-eighties. The expansion of the port thereafter
could be done rapidly and at a relatively low marginal cost since the dredging
is already sufficient to accommodate a future berth length of 790 m.
Transport Investments
30.        The achievement of these goals however requires substantial invest-
ments and institutional improvements. Improving the Benin Route is one of the
Government's priorities and the first step was to pave the Parakou-Malanville
road in 1976/77 ($30 million). Investments now underway which cover the most
urgent needs of the Benin Route total about $70 million, i.e. 15 percent of
the Government's total investments over the next three years. These invest-
ments comprise, in addition to the proposed project, new motive power and
rolling stock for the railroad in order to increase its capacity to 500,000
tons per year (cost estimated at $11 million and financed by CCCE, FAC and
suppliers' credits), an interim investment program consisting of open storage
areas, and a mobile crane at the road/rail terminal of Parakou, two barges,
a tug and a transit shed for the port (cost estimated at $4.0 million and
financed by the West African Development Bank-BOAD). On longer term, the
Government is committed to prepare a plan of action by June 30, 1979



- 8 -
to improve the average time of transshipment and to increase the transshipment
facilities of the Parakou terminal and to have these improvements effective by
December 31, 1980 (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01).
31.       The Government is also considering completing the paving of the road
parallel to the railroad (between Bohicon 100 km north of Cotonou and Parakou)
which would allow direct shipment from Cotonou to Niamey and thus would prob-
ably result in reduced transport costs. But the paving of the road would
inevitably result in a loss of traffic for the railway. This has led the
Government to adopt a prudent investment policy in the railway, keeping the
investments to a strict minimum. Funds are included under the proposed
project for a study of the traffic forecasts and the investments needed to
cope with expected railway demand over the next decade.
32.       Insofar as the Cotonou-Lagos link is concerned, the Government of
Nigeria has financed at its own initiative a 30 km road linking Porto Novo
(in Benin) to the Nigerian border. The Government of Benin is presently
building a two-lane bridge across the lagoon which separates Cotonou from
Porto Novo (cost estimated at $15 million and financed by USAID). Some
complementary investments in access roads to the bridge and side roads from
the Cotonou-Malanville axis to western Nigeria are being studied.
33.        Institutional improvements underway range from strengthening cargo
handling and stevedoring operations within the port and at the Parakou road/
rail terminal, to improving and simplifying the customs clearance formalities,
thereby giving easier access to Niger and Nigeria for transit goods passing
through.
Transport Industry
34.       Presently, there is no agency governing the transport industry. I/
The railroad has the responsibility de facto. It charters the trucks which
carry freight between Parakou and Niamey. In principle, two-thirds of the
goods destined for Niger are to be carried out by Niger truckers and one-third
by Benin truckers. The transport industry presently consists of about 350
small operators with less than 4 trucks. To make up for the insufficiencies
of the private sector, the Government has recently established several regional
transport companies at the province level and a large semipublic company--
Transbenin--to carry out the Nigeria traffic. Under the Third Highway Project,
the Government is committed to undertake a study of the supply and demand of
transport facilities to avoid possible overcapacity.
35.       The freight rates offered to the trucking companies are too low and
result in a lack of competition and poor standards of vehicles. The proposed
project provides for a study of tariffs which will probably recommend tariff
increases. But the greater productivity resulting from the proposed project
and other investments envisaged on the Benin Route should counterbalance any
negative effect of higher tariffs.
1/   This is to be changed under the IDA-financed Third Highway Project
which provides technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport to
strengthen its transport planning and coordination functions.



- 9 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project is described in detail in the Staff Appraisal
Report No. 1983-BEN dated May 22, 1978, and summarized at the beginning of
this report. Annex III contains supplementary Project data. A master plan
for the development of the Port, financed by FAC, was prepared by consultants
BCEOM (France) in 1975. BCEOM also carried out the pre-feasibility studies.
The preparation of the economic engineering and financial aspects of the
project was financed under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) with a
contribution from BADEA. Funds from the PPF were also used to finance an
appraisal by Delft Laboratories (the Netherlands) of the erosion problems of
the coast. FAC financed a study of cargo handling which was carried out by
FAC and the Port of Marseilles. 1/ Representatives from four of the co-
lenders participated in the appraisal in October 1974. Negotiations took
place in Paris at the beginning of May 1978. The Beninese delegation was
led by Mr. F. Dossou, Minister of Planning, Statistics and Coordination of
Foreign Aid.
37.       The present Port facilities date from 1965 and no development or
improvements have been made since then. The proposed project would increase
the Port capacity from about 700,000 to about 1.1 to 1.2 million tons annually
and its productivity would increase from the present average rate of 7.1 tons/
gang/hour for general cargo to a minimum of 10.0 tons. The Government is
committed to this target (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02).
38.       The location of the port dictates the areas of expansion:  develop-
ment can only occur immediately to the west of the port by demolishing part
of the west breakwater and by using land areas created by sand accretion
caused by the breakwater itself. However increased land areas for future
expansion are needed and a new cut-off breakwater would be built extending
further into the sea in order to continue the process of accretion. This new
breakwater would also alleviate siltation of the port entrance for some years.
As a consequence of the original port construction and the interruption of
the littoral sand transport, severe erosion has occurred and will continue
to occur downdrift (east) of the port. This erosion has led to many prob-
lems and considerable expenditure on protection works.
39.       The proposed project has several objectives:
(a) to increase the capacity of the port to handle at least 1.1
million tons of general and break-bulk cargo a year; this
increased capacity should suffice until 1985;
1/   At the request of the Government, an UNCTAD "Port Congestion Task Force"
visited Cotonou twice in 1977. The task force commented on the Port of
Marseilles Study and reinforced many of the recommendations incorporated
in the project.



- 10 -
(b) to improve the efficiency of PAC and OBEMAP operations
through training programs and technical assistance;
(c) to ensure that Benin derives the maximum benefit from the use
of the Port of Cotonou for the transit of goods destined to
neighbouring countries by introducing an adequate tariff
structure, in particular on the Benin Route;
(d) to improve the operations of OCBN's central line from Cotonou
to Parakou through technical assistance and training; and
(e) to study the downdrift erosion problems to permit the Govern-
ment to plan shore protection works.
Project Description
40.       The proposed project would have two components--civil engineer-
ing works (including supervision), and technical assistance, training and a
study. The civil engineering works, which have been divided into six lots
to simplify the parallel and joint financing, consist of (i) construction of
610 m of 11 m deep berths, (ii) dredging of the entrance channel and the new
basin, (iii) demolition of part of the existing west breakwater and construc-
tion of a cut-off breakwater, (iv) paving, roadworks, services and fencing,
(v) transit sheds, and (vi) electrical works. Technical assistance and
training would include assistance to PAC, OBEMAP and the railway to help
improve their operational effectiveness and capacity.
Civil Engineering Works
41.       The civil engineering works would comprise:
Lot I - Berth construction: the existing berths would be extended
by 610 m with a depth of 11 m, plus a further 50 m with a
depth gradually decreasing from 11 m to zero to be used as a
service berth for the port's tugs, pilot boats and launches.
Tender documents provided for a sheet piling. However, a
number of tenderers submitted a variation for an in situ
concrete quay wall which may be adopted following further
study by the consultants. Also included within this lot is
the provision fora simple roll-on/roll-off facility to be
studied under the project.
Lot 2 - Dredging and filling: this lot is divided into two
sections since the dredging of the port entrance channel demands
the use of floating equipment which can cope with the
swell wave conditions, whereas dredging the new basin can
be done using a land-based plant or simple floating equip-
ment. The sturplus material from the channel dredging
would be deposited close to the shore downdrift to the
east of the port, and surplus from the basin dredging
would be deposited to the west of the new basin;



- 11 -
Lot 3 - Demolition of part of the west breakwater and construc-
tion of a cut-off breakwater: in order to provide access
to the new basin, it would be necessary to remove 320 m
of the west breakwater. Suitable materials from the demo-
lition of the west breakwater (heavy rocks and tetrapods)
would be used in the construction of the cut-off breakwater.
The latter is the most difficult of the project's civil
engineering operations, since its extremity is located in
deep water (13 m);
Lot 4 - Shoreworks: this includes all the works behind the
berthface including provisions for storm-water drainage,
water distribution, roadways, sidewalks, weighbridge
and railway trackwork;
Lot 5 - Two transit sheds; and
Lot 6 - Electrical works: this comprises all the electrical
works involved in the expansion of the port facilities.
Technical Assistance and Training
42.       PAC, OBEMAP and OCBN would receive technical assistance and training
to improve their efficiency. Four experts (60 man-months) would work in PAC
to advise on port operations and control; reorganize the accounting system;
introduce cost control and cost-based tariffs; revalue the assets; set up a
maintenance program; establish training programs for various personnel; and
establish appropriate policies on pilotage charges and the training of pilots.
43.       Three experts (60 man-months) would work in OBEMAP to help develop
training programs and train various personnel, institute a program of regular
equipment maintenance and renewal; and provide assistance in accounting and
tariffs. Training for most of PAC and OBEMAP personnel would be in the port.
Short-term overseas training missions could be included for senior personnel.
44.       Two experts (22 man-months) would serve in OCBN (Cotonou and Parakou)
to recommend improvements in operations and management (including training),
to design a new layout for the Parakou terminal, to review the traffic fore-
casts and determine investments needed over the next decade, and to prepare
a new tariff structure for its services,including road transport.
45.       In addition an engineering firm (40 man-month) would work in PAC
to study the need for a simple but economic form of roll-on/roll-off facility
for the port, to develop and design the facility and to assist PAC in imple-
menting and commissioning it. It has been agreed that the study would be
reviewed by the Association before the facility is implemented (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.12).



- 12 -
46.       The study of coastal protection would determine the future action
needed and estimate the costs of any civil engineering works proposed. The
Government would employ consultants to carry out the study by March 31, 1979,
and the study would be completed by March 31, 1980 (Development Credit Agree-
ment, Sections 3.03(a) and 3.08).
47.       The Government has agreed to employ experts for the tasks listed
in paras 42-45 above whose qualifications and conditions of employment would
be acceptable to the Association (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02).
The Government has also agreed to coordinate the three tariff studies carried
out under the Project by PAC, OBEMAP and OCBN (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.07).
Implementation
48.       The Government has set up an ad hoc commission with the overall
responsibility of supervising the execution of the port project, as it has
done for other major projects underway in the country. The Chairman, Mr. Baba
Moussa, is Director General of the "Banque Beninoise de Developpement".
Members of the commission are drawn from various Government departments and
agencies concerned with the project. The Chairman is responsible directly to
the President.
49.       The Ministry of Transport remains responsible for ensuring that the
decisions of the commission are carried out. The Ministry of Transport would
be assisted by engineering consultants in addition to the technical assistance
identified above. It is proposed to appoint a project coordinator, financed
by UNDP, who would act as a liaison between the Government, the ad hoc commis-
sion, the implementing agencies and the co-lenders, particularly with respect
to loan and credit effectiveness procedures, procurement and disbursements.
The appointment of the engineering consultants and the project coordinator
would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 6.01 (b) and (c)). The coordinator would have a Beninese
counterpart acceptable to the Association,financed under the project (Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, Section 3.03(b)). The Government has agreed to second
senior staff acceptable to the Association to work alongside the engineering
consultants, by September 30, 1978 (Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.02 (b)).
Cost Estimates
50.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at $46.1 mil-
lion, excluding taxes and duties from which the project would be exempted,
with foreign costs of about $34.1 million (73 percent). The costs for the
civil engineering work are based on the consultants' preliminary report on
the evaluation of the tenders received on April 15, 1978. The estimate used
for Lot 2, dredging and filling, was provided by CIDA. The estimates in-
clude physical and price contingencies. Physical contingencies amount to 10
percent since the cost figures are still provisional. Price contingencies
assume annual increases as follows: 1978, 8 percent; 1979, 7.5 percent; 1980
and onwards, 7 percent.



- 13 -
51.       The cost of technical assistance is estimated at $8,000 per man-
month based on recent costs for technical assistance in the region. In addi-
tion to the man-month costs which total $1.46 million, an additional sum of
$0.35 million has been allowed for international travel and transportation,
small items of training equipment, expenses for Benin staff to be trained
overseas and the costs of printing reports.
Financing Plan
52.       The Association would provide a credit of $11 million, i.e. 24
percent of total project costs. Total external financing from the eight
co-lenders would amount to $44 million (about 95 percent of total project
costs) and would cover $10 million of local costs. IDA's share of the local
cost financing, measured in proportion to its share of total external financ-
ing (minus project components financed on a parallel basis) would be about
$2.7 million. The local contribution to the project provided by the Govern-
ment ($0.4 million) and PAC ($1.6 million), would total $2.0 million (about 5
percent of total project costs).
53.       US$9.7 million of the IDA credit would be onlent by the Government
to PAC at 7.5 percent interest for a period of 20 years, including 5 years
grace. The funds made available by the Government to OBEMAP and OCBN for the
financing of the technical assistance would be in the form of a grant. The
conclusion of a subsidiary agreement between the Government and PAC would be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 6.01 (a)).
54.       The Norway grant would be onlent by the Government to PAC under the
same conditions as the IDA credit. The probable terms for the Abu Dhabi and
BADEA loans would be 20 years including 4 years grace, with interest at 4 per-
cent and 6 percent respectively. AfDB and CCCE would lend directly to PAC with
the Government's guarantee. CCCE's loan would be at 6.0 percent interest for
15 years including 3 years grace; and the AfDB loan, at 4.0 percent interest
for 25 years including 5 years grace. The effectiveness of the BADEA and AfDB
loan agreements, the CIDA, FAC and Norway grant agreements, and the authoriza-
tion of the Abu Dhabi and CCCE loans by these two institutions would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Development Credit Agree-
ment Section 6.01 (d) and (e)).
55.       The financing would be allocated as follows:
Lot 1 (berth construction) and Lot 4 (shore works) would be financed
on a joint basis by IDA ($6.5 million), Norway ($8.3 million), AfDB/NTF
($2.9 million), FAC ($1.5 million), and PAC ($0.6 million);
Lot 2 (dredging and filling) would be financed in parallel by CIDA
($10.0 million);
Lot 3 (breakwaters) would be financed in parallel by BADEA ($4.5
million) and PAC ($0.7 million);



- 14 -
Lot 5 (transit sheds) would be financed in parallel by CCCE ($3.7
million);
Lot 6 (electrical work) would be financed in parallel by the Abu
Dhabi Fund ($2.6 million).
The supervision of the civil works, the technical assistance and training,
and the coastal protection study would be financed by the Association, the
Government and PAC.
Disbursements
56.       The IDA Credit would be disbursed to cover 33 percent of Lots 1
and 4 on a pari passu basis with Norway, AfDB and FAC; 85 percent of the cost
of the supervision of the civil works, technical assistance and training, and
the studies.
57.       Three studies, essential to project preparation, were financed
from the Association's Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in the amount of
US$500,000. They were: (i) a study of alternatives for a phased development
of the port; (ii) a study of the coastal regime; and (iii) the detailed
engineering and economic and financial studies.
Procurement
58.       International competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines (with the exception of Lots 2 and 5) has already taken place for
civil works. Tenders were opened in public on April 15, 1978 and 24 con-
tractors submitted bids. Lot 2 is intended to be procured by CIDA using only
Canadian contractors and under CIDA's own procurement procedures; tenders
are expected to be invited in May 1978. Tenders for Lot 5, financed by CCCE,
were open only to French contractors.
59.       Consultants for the supervision of the construction of all civil
works and the detailed study of the coastal protection works would be selected
according to Bank Group Guidelines. Consultants for the supervision of the
civil works have been preselected; their offers were received by May 15, 1978
and are now being evaluated.
Financial Evaluation
PAC's Past Performance
60.       The analysis of PAC's financial situation reveals several weak-
nesses. First PAC's balance sheet does not include all its assets and the
accounted ones are valued at their original cost. Second, among the current
assets, receivables showed a marked increase from 1974 to 1976 reaching about
53 percent of gross revenues in 1976. Third, PAC's revenues are too low.
Fixed in 1965, PAC's tariffs remained at the same level until 1974 when they
were increased by 25-30 percent. Its rental rates were again increased in



- 15 -
mid-1977. These increases were, however, not even sufficient to cover in-
creases for inflation. Pro forma accounts, including an estimation of all
PAC assets at their historical value and annual provision for depreciation
adjusted correspondingly, show a deficit in 1974 and 1975 and a small net
income in 1976. The situation would have been worse if depreciation had been
computed on the assets at their replacement value. To redress this situation
the Government has agreed to incorporate in PAC's accounts by December 31,
1979 the replacement value of all fixed assets in use, and thereafter to have
PAC revalue its assets at appropriate intervals determined as a function of
inflation rates but in no case exceeding five years. Agreement has also been
reached on reducing the balance of PAC's receivables by December 31, 1979 to
about two months average gross revenue (or not more than 20 percent of gross
revenue) and to introduce measures such as advance deposits to restrict its
receivables (Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 4).
PAC's Future Performance
61.       There is scope for increasing PAC's cash generation through improved
efficiency resulting from the proposed project and more importantly through
periodic port tariff increases on an expanding volume of cargo. Since sub-
stantial benefits would accrue to port users from planned investment already
taking place in 1978, including the purchase of port equipment (see para. 30)
which would improve port productivity and reduce ship waiting and service
time, port tariffs should be increased by June 1979 by at least 30 percent.
This would allow cost inflation to be offset for 1978 and 1979 (6 percent per
year), and to generate additional revenue in real terms of about 15 percent
annually. Until completion of the project in late 1980, tariff increases
should be only moderately in excess of inflation to avoid the risk of traffic
diversion; an annual tariff increase of 10 percent would be adequate for this
purpose. At completion of the project, the competitive position of Cotonou
would improve substantially, particularly if, as expected, the present freight
surcharge of 35 percent is abolished as the new berths come into use and ship
waiting time is reduced. However, any further tariff increase would have
to be carefully assessed. Present estimates suggest that, in 1981, PAC's
tariffs could be increased by a further 75 percent above the 1980 tariffs
without risking any traffic diversion from Cotonou provided that OBEMAP's
tariff increases were limited to offsetting inflation. This limitation would
also apply to PAC after 1981 when 10 percent annual increases have been
assumed. Since shipping lines are highly sensitive to the charges borne by
them in selecting ports of call, most of the higher charges should be borne
by the landed cargo, subject to the findings of the costing study. This
should enable PAC to achieve a minimum rate of return before income tax on
net fixed assets in use, revalued from time to time, of at least 5 percent in
1980 and 8 percent thereafter. The Government has agreed on these targets
which would provide for a satisfactory recovery of project cost (Development
Credit Agreement Schedule 4).



- 16 -
62.       Since most donors, other than IDA and Norway, have decided that
their contribution would be passed on to PAC by the Government on relatively
soft terms, (grants for $11.5 million to be passed as equity and loans at
concessionary terms for $13.2 million), PAC is expected to have a favorable
debt/equity ratio 27/73 in 1983 and an equally favorable debt 6ervice ratio.
Cash generation is expected to be substantially in excess of PAC's needs
since no other major investments are planned. The bulk of PAC's cash genera-
tion would be transferred to the Government through appropriate mechanisms
like the income tax and net profit transfer. The Government has agreed that
PAC would not incur non-project capital expenditures exceeding CFAF 100
million per year until December 31, 1985, except in agreement with the
Association (Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 4).
63.       Over the 1981-84 period, the Government is likely to receive net
additional revenues of about $35 million (in constant 1977 prices) from the
expansion of the port and related transport activities.
Benefits and Risks
64.       General cargo traffic through the Port of Cotonou has grown rapidly
in recent years and the port has reached its operational capacity. This
combined with inefficient operations has caused some diversion of traffic
destined for Niger and Nigeria to neighboring ports. The most significant
benefits of the proposed project for Benin accrue from the avoidance of this
diversion, since this traffic would be the source of substantial revenues
for Benin.
65.       Other quantifiable benefits directly attributable to the project
are savings on periodic maintenance dredging; reduction of freight for
clinker imports; transport cost savings for Niger; reduction in handling
costs; and savings in ship waiting and servicing time. Considered but not
quantified are the benefits generated through the storage, repacking and
processing of Nigeria transit traffic induced by the project.
66.       The proposed project would yield an overall rate of return of
37 percent. This includes the benefits that would accrue to all port users,
i.e. Benin, Niger, Nigeria and the foreign shipping companies only to a
marginal extent with respect to the latter. The economic return expected from
the extension of berthing facilities (ship waiting time savings, handling cost
savings, and avoidance of traffic diversion), the economic cost of which would
be about $32 million is the highest of the various components (38 percent).
The return from the construction of the cut-off breakwater and the silt sand
trap dredging (savings in maintenance dredging and the creation of new land),
the economic cost of which would be about $5 million, is 20 percent.
67.       Benin itself would recover only a part of the benefits from the
project, since some of them would be passed on to Niger and Nigeria and to a
marginal extent to the shipowners. The rate of return for Benin alone would
be 25 percent, excluding the unquantified benefits mentioned above which
would accrue to Benin.



- 17 -
68.       The project risks are linked mainly to Benin's undertaking a rela-
tively large investment, which would also serve Niger and Nigeria, without
any formal commitment by these two countries to the project. However, the
competitive advantages of the Cotonou port and the Benin Route are strong
enough to assure that both Niger and Nigeria, especially the former, will
continue using Cotonou, and that tariffs can be substantially increased with-
out serious risk of diversion. In the most unfavorable event that Nigeria's
direct transit traffic using Cotonou would disappear,the overall rate of
return would fall to 25 percent and the return for Benin alone would be 13
percent. This reflects a risk of about 25 percent over-capacity in the
proposed berth extension project until the mid-1980's. But considering the
traffic congestion at Lagos and the willingness of Nigeria not only to use
Cotonou port facilities but also to participate substantially in industrial
and infrastructure investments in its neighboring country, this is unlikely.
The participation of the Nigeria Trust Fund in the financing of the project
is also a clear sign   of Nigeria's interest in the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Benin and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
70.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of effectiveness included in the Development Credit
Agreement would be the conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and PAC, the effectiveness of the financing agreements with AfDB,
BADEA, CIDA and Norway, the authorization of the loans by the Abu Dhabi Fund
and CCCE, and the appointment of the engineering consultants and the project
coordinator.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 26, 1978



- 18 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                     Page lof  4
BENIN                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
BENIN                                  REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       112.6                                          MOST RECENT
AGRIC.       33.9                         1960       1970   ESTIMATE             TOGO            LIBERIA         IVORY COAST***
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        70.0      100.0       130.0                170.0       280.0        350.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR  MILLION)               2.1        2.7         3.2                  2.0         1.3          5.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                          19.0       24.0       28.0                 35.0         12.0         16.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          62.0        80.0       94.0                 83.0        217.0         32.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)            51.4       50.6       49.9                 51.0         42.8         46.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)             31.5       26.6       23.0                 26.6         23.5         23.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         110.0 /a,b    ..           * -                           137.3
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)         34.3        38.5       41.8                 38.5         41.0         41.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.3        3.3         3.3                 3.3          2.6          3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE ())
TOTAL                                    3.1        2.8        2.7                  2.7          3.3          3.4*
URBAN                                     ..        5.9         4.2                 5.4           . .         8.7 /a
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)              9.3       12.6        13.5                 13.0        26.2         28.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                         44.2        44.9       46.1                '49.8         40.7        42.5
IS TO 64 YEARS                         53.2        52.6       50.2                 46.0         56.0        54.8
65 YEARS AND OVER                        2.6        2.5         3.7                 4.2          3.3          2.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                       0.9        0.9         1.0                  1.2         0.8          0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  0.9 /c     I .0 /a     1.1/1                1.51a        1.0/a      0o./b
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)                     .                .                         .      .
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)                ..         ..          ..                   ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANO)            1100.0    1300.0    1500.0                  720.0/b    580.0        2600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)            55.0       52.0       47.5                 75.0         72.0         82.0
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)               ..          ..         ..0.0b
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECDO 0Y-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               31 4/d                                                  61 7/C
HIG1EST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               51.7                                                    76. ..  ..267t .
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                5.5          .    .      .                   *.         S.37-
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               15.8         ..          ..                   .         10o97E         *
OISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS                 .          ..         ..
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS               ..         ..         ..                   ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                     .   29260.0   32740.0                27940.0    11590.0    15320.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                      2440.0    2370.0                4170.0       4590.0      2830.0 /c
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                 ..      870.0 /b  780.0                 860.0/c    580.0         1150.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)            96.0       97.0        87.0                94.0         84.0       114.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                54.0        55.0       56.0                 51.0         36.0        60.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           14.1        18.0 /c       -                 19.0/d       10.0 /d     19.0 /d
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               45.0/b        ..         ..                   ..        18.2
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         26.0        40.0       44.0                 72.0        53.0         76.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                         2.0        5.0       11.0                  7.0          9.0        11.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)               13.0        13.0       13.0                 13.0        12.0         13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(I  OF SECONDARY)                      13.0         4.1        2.1                 10.0         8.4          7.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                   20.0/e       ..          ..                12.0         15.0        20.0
HOUS I NG
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                    ..          ..         ..                   ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                           ..         ..          ..                  ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                             .         ..              ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY  (X)                       ..         ..          ..                  ..           ..
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)            13.0       32.0        52.0                            132.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)              1.0        4.0         5.0                 4.0         11.0         10.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)               5.0       12.0        18.0                33.0        330.0        95.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                               ..                   ..                    0.1          0.2
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



-1 9-
ANNEX I
Page 2 nf 4
NOTES
Conothecoiso noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971 and for Moat Recent Estimate between
1973sand 1976.
*   .ec to lootgration population growth rate is higher than rate of nataral increasae.
T1.  Nocy Co-nt hoe been selected am an objective country becaus.e of its geographic proniMity acd its more advanced stege of economic development.
tLfNIN           1960    is  African population only;          lb  Eased on deatba reported for 12 monthe period;             Is  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and
over to total labor force;        Id  Population;       Ie  Prior to 1965.
1970     Ia  RLatio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;              lb  Government hospital establishmen ts  only;
Ic 1964-66.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATES:        Ia  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor fore,
TOGO             i970    Is  Ratio of Population under 15 and 65 cod over to total labor force;                 lb  Pigures do noct include unemployed;          /c  Govern-
ment hanpital eatablishmetna only;          /d  1964-66.
LIBERIA          1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;                 /b  Unemployed and partially employed;           IC  Popola.-
tion, 1975 Sank Economic Report, higher income calculated em residual, includem expatriates;                   /d  1964-66.
*             I~~~~VORY COAST   1970    Ia  1965-75;       /b  RLatio of population under 15 end 65 end ove r no total labor force;              /0  Government only, including mid-
wies  d  1964-66.
R5, May 22, 1979
DEPflETfl05 OF SOCIAL IlNDICATORS
Land Area (thee ko2)                                                                           fpomlatino Mr cocaine perso   - Popelation divided by cober of practicing
Total -Total  -uf-c  area cmprising land area and inland watrcs,                                 male and female graduate curses, "trained"  rc 'Icertified'  uaa  and
ugric. -Moor recent estimate of agricoture1 area need temporarily or pan-                        antliary parsoeme  with training or emparlesee.
en.tly for crpa, poatorec, cachet & kitchen gardnen  or to lie fallow.                       Population per hoamital bed - Population divided by ntebee of hospital beda
available in pobliceand private general and apecisitmed hospital and
GNPer ..pita (US$) - GNP per capita  aetianates at correct macbt prices,                       rehabilitation  necter; ...ludaa mursing homes and satblisle.eeta  foe
calcolatd by eon  conversion eathod as World Sank Atl.a (1976-76, basis);. cotodi1 and pcaventive ears.
1960; 1970 and 1976 data.                                                                   Pee .aPit. supply of cal-cisa ft of regnircemects) - tCmporad free energy
equivalent of net fond aupplies available in coutry per capita pee day;
Poculation and vital a tatistic_                                                                 available auppliis nomprise domestic production, impacts less soporte, end
Pop,latton (mid-year  illioc)   no of July first:  if cot available, averge                      thanees In stock; net supplies meclods animal food, seeds, qu-titias used
of ru ncd-year eetieaatee; 1)60, 1970 and 1926 data.                                           in food procee..ing and lonesa in distribution; raquiraeente were estimated
by PAO based on physiological needs for noreal activity end health  -onid-
Popolatioc density -p.r auceca ho - Mid-year population par aquorc  kilomter                     acing enirn tnna  tsperatuce, body asiehts, age and see disteihutiona  of
(lii hecteree) of total area.                                                                 popula tion, and a11ieig lOt for wars ath-- honehld level.
oecialtlon deceity   pare snaca lea of sari-. land - Computed as above for                    lPar .apit. surely of protein feces set day) - Protein cotntac  of par capita
agricoltuca1 land only.                                                                        net supply of fend par day; met supply of fomad is defined aa above ; require-
mects for all countries, established by USDA EconMic Research Services
Vital statistics                                                                                 provide far a minione  sllwasnee of 60 gramss of total protein per day, sod
Crude birth race par thousnand. evereas - dAnne1 live birtho par thoasend of                     20 grass of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gras  should he a.nial
old-year popula tion; ten-year  ritlastic avarage  ending in 1960 sod 1970,                    protein; these atanedad ors lowe  then thoea  of 75 gres of total protein
and five-year averge ending in 1975 for wart recent estimate,                                  end 23 grem   of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death rein met thousa.nd. aversee - Annua deaths par thousand of mid-year                  in the Third World Peed nervey.
population; ten-year aritleastic  vavrages ending is 1960 and 1970 and five-                 Par osnits crotein sceplc from animal and mulses - Protein sepply of food
year avrg  en ding ia 1975 for cost recent estimate,                                           derived Inns a.nials and pulesa in garsa par day.
Infant mortalIity rate I/thou) - Annual destho of infante under one year of age                Death rate (/thou) sees 1-4 - Annua  deaths par thousand In age group 1-4
per thousand liv  births.                                                                      years, to children in this age group; euggeated me an indicator of
iifeea.pota.cc  at birth lyre) - Average comber of years of life remaining at                    malnutrition.
birth; ....ally fiv-yea  avrages ending In 1960, 1970 and 1975 for davelop-
iog onor .Education
Gr..a -ep-oductio  tate-Average cober of lIve daughters a woman will bear                      Adjusted erollment ratio - priasary school - E-1o1lont of all ages as par-
in her noonol repr-d-ctive period if she.meine  presen.t age-specific                          centaga of prim,ary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 peace
fertility catne; usually five-year averagea ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                      hot adjusted for different lengths of primary educa.tion; for coutrisa with
for developing countries.                                                                      univereal education, enrollment may asensed lOt sime ses pupils are below
Population ucowth rate 17,) - total - Compoed annual grocth rates of mid-yea                     or abov  the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                 Adjisted enrollanen  ratio - secondary school - Computed as abov; secondary
Population orowth rate It) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                          educa.tion requires at least four peace of approved primary instruction;
population; different definitiona of urban areas may effect cmparability of                    provides genra,        .octional or teacher training lustr-ntiona, for pp5
data onoog c-utrine.                                                                           of 12 to 17 years of age; correapendenee.. coures aer  generally secluded.
Urban popciacbon (% or tota) - genie of urbac to total population; different                   Tears of achooling provided Ifirt and second levels) - Total peace of
definitions of orbo  areas nay affect csmparabllity of data am,ong countries,                  schooling; at secondary level, vctiona  insrwtmti   may ha partially or
completely secluded.
Age trucur (pecen) -Children (i-li years) , working-age (15-64 ya),vocation  alsceimtC   fscnay       oainliaiain    nld
and retired (61 years and over) as pertentages of mi-erpopulation.                             tehia,idsra-tohrpo s  wh-ichopeate indepetindenl  or as
hoe depeod-ey ratio - Rstio of  .poplation under 11 and 65 and over to those                     deparusentsiof secondary institutions .
of  ge-  15 cbrcugb 64.                                                                      Adult lit-ercy ae  t   - Literate adults fable to red and stite) as per-
iconmicdepndeny rtio-RStin of population under 15 sod 65 and ovr to                      cetage of total adult population aged 11 peace end over.
the labor forte in age group of 15-64 years.
faIypecc  aceptors              imlative  thou   - Cuslative oohe  of -ccptorn               Sousing
of  irt-cntrl  evicsune  ceiceo  ntional fenily planning pregrat                        Person  par room (urban) - average cober of persona per roo  in occpied
1crInception                                                                               covetional dwellinga in urban areas; dwellings eeclude o-peru,anect
Fonily plann.ing - umer It of married women) - Percencagee of maried o-e  of                     ntructotes sod neoccpied parts.
child-beaing age (15-44 years) ab. us  birth-control devices to all maried                   Occomied dwellings without need ester it)   Occupied conventional doellinge
oenin san  ofe grop.                                                                        in urban andruaass without isside orotside piped neater facilities
as:. ...cetage of all occUpiad dwellings.
Total esbot                                                                                    Access ...nd  to electricity ft of all dwellings) -Conventional dwellings with
Tota laor ort (tousnd)- Economically active pereons, including  ranud                    electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in ochas and
farces and uneployed hut aectudiag bo                roie,  tdents, etc.; definitions          rural ares.
in naio o ootriea are not comparable.                                                       focal dweling       ne  e t   lctiiy  t   Computed as above for rura
iaho fore inagrcultre f)  -Agriculture1 labor forca (in farming, forestry,              doeIinge only.
h-tring aod fishing) as prerentage of total labor force
Uooseloyed It of labor farce)  U- eployed are uaually defined as parson  who                   Conutibo
ore able end willing to take ajob, out of a job on a given day, caselod out                  Radio rateivera (per thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broodrasto
of a joh, and  aseking work for a epeified minionas period nor neceeding on                    to gene ral Public per thousand of POPulation; e..clodee onli.eseed receirer
week; my nt he comparable between coutries due to different definition                         to couctrina and in years when registration  of radio eats was in efface;
of uneployed and source of data, e g., employment off its sttatis             _eple            d.at  for recent Year  may not be  -oparbhi  since mostconre  aboliahed
-onys, compulsory unmployment insurance .                                                      licemaing.
Passeneertare: fee   hou roe)_ - Passenger care romprias ma-ctare seating
lame dieibocion   - Prcntage of private Incom   (both is cah and kind)                     lestaPihIpros'mlds  muate    eresadmltr
received by richest It, richest 201, poorest 2lit, and p-oret 4Alt of house-                               ghveronhiclle-eh....a.diitr
holds.                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Electricity Ikh/nyr pec nap) - annua  co__pti_n of induatrial,criS
Di.trib.tt- of land owner.bip  ftr-t.g..  f I    ~public and private ale-triciry Is kilowatt hours Per espies, geneall
Oletibuton  f lad aeeerhispcrtntsea  o  led owned by wealthiest lOt                 base.d on prodUction data, without alsusane far losses in grids but silo-
and pooceat 107% of land onmers.                                                               ing for imports and aspects of electricity.
H-11h and N.trition                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Neaproint (hg/yr Per tee) - Per eaPita annua  consomptlon is bilogres
Meal U~~~~~ and nutrition                                                es~~~~~.timated Prom domaa,tie Prodentlan plea met iaprta of newsaprint.
PPopulaion Per physician - Population divided by o,mber of pracicing
physiciana q-1lified free a medical achl at university level.



- 20-                                          ANNEX  I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
CROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWThI (%, current prices)
US$ Mln.   % of GDP                                  1972-1976
GNP at Market Prices             556.0        103.1                                    13.7
GDP at Market Prices             539.3        100.0                                    12.8
Gross Domestic Investment        108.2         20.1                                    24.0
Gross Domestic Saving             26.4          4.9                                    87.0
Current Account Balance          -47.5         -8.8                                   -27.0
Exports of Goods, NFS            144.8         26.8                                    12.5
Imports of Goods, NFS            226.6         42.0                                    13.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                Labor Force               V.A. Per Worker
US$Mln.         %              Mln.       %               US$         Ze
Agriculture                      186.7         37.9            0.848    58.7             220.2        64.5
Industry, Construction
& Public Works                  72.3         14.6            0.031     2.1          2,332.3       683.6
Government                        56.1         11.4            0.063     4.4            890.5       261.0
,Commerce and Transport          137.0         27.8            0.504    34.9             271.8        79.7
Other Services                    41.0          8.3             ..        ..               ..        ..
GDP at factor cost            493.1        100.0             1.445   100.0            341.2       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(CFAF Bln.)               % of GDP
1976-77           1976-77        1972-75
Current Receipts                        23.8                16.7           14.9
Current Expenditure                     16.6                11.7           14.0
Current Surplus                          7.1                 5.0            0.9
Capital Expenditures                    19.0                13.4            9.2
External Debt Disbursements (gross)    7.6                   5.3            3.6
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1971        1972       1973        1974        1975       ____         1977
-   -         (Billion CFAF outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money               12.26       13.89       14.79      18.45       31.86       30.63       33.32
Bank Credit to Public Sector        -0.82       -0.51       -1.16      -2.42       -2.95       -2.30       -5.34
Bank Credit tc Private Sector        8.53       10.41       12.73      16.45       32.45       32.10       37.00
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as            18.4        17.5        23.7        19.3       29.6        23.8        21.4
Z of GDP
General Price Index (1969 = 100)   ..          117.3       118.9      141.8       155.3       167.8       182.11/
Annual percentage changes in:                                                                                2/
General Price Index                  4.4         .           1.4       19.3         9.5         8.0        15.2-
Bank Credit to Public Sector         ..         37.8     -127.5      -108.6       -21.9        22.0      -132.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector       15.3        22.0        22.3       29.2        97.3        -1.1        15.3
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the exchange rates noted on the following page.
1/ June 1977.
2/ First six months of 1977, on adjusted annual basis.
.. not available



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
TRADE, PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS              1972    1975    19761/  19771/                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-1976, RECORDED)
(US $ million)                                                       US $ million        %
Exports of Goods, NFS            85.8   117.9   144.8   190.4                     Cotton                          13.3            35.2
Imports of Goods, NFS           127.5   182.8   226.6   297.1                     Cocoa Beans                      5.8            15.4
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -41.7   -64.9   -81.8  -106.7                       Palm Products                   14.2            37.7
All Other Commodities            4.4            11.7
Interest Payments (net)          -2.9    -1.3    -0.4    -0.3                                             TOTAL  37.7            100.0
Workers' Remittances               3.0    15.0    17.1    15.1
Other Factor Payments (net)       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Net Transfers                      7.3     8.4    17.6    13.9
Balance on Current Account    -34.2   -42.8   -47.5   -78.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, December 31, 1976
Direct Foreign Investment         4.8      1.9      0.0    10.6                                                                 US $ million
Net MLT Borrowing                  4.8     9.3    24.7    20.8
Capital Grants                   19.0    20.6    25.9    44.7                     Public debt (disbursed), incl. guaranteed    101.3
Other Capital (net)                1.9    12.0    10.9       1.9                  Non-guaranteed private debt
Other Items n.e.i.                 2.8    -7.2    -9.6       0.0                  Total outstanding and disbursed
Use of Reservea (increase .  -|  0A-       6.2    -4.4       0.0
Gross Reserves (end year)2!    28.4    15.0    19.2    20.6
Net Reserves (end year)V          23.7    23.8    22.7    12.8
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 -/
Petroleum Imports                  4.0    15.1    17.1    21.2                                             -                       x
as 2 of Total Imports          3.1      8.3      7.5      7.1                 Public debt (disbursed) incl. guaranteed    4.2
Non-guaranteed private debt
Total outstanding and disbursed
EXCHANGE RATES (CFAF per US $)
Year         Period Average         Fnd of Period
1972               252                  256                                       IBRD/IDA LENDING, April 30, 1978              IBRD      IDA
1973               223                  230                                                                                     (US   million)
1974               241                  222
1975               214                  224                                       Outstanding and disbursed                      0.0    31.4
1976               239                  248.5                                     Undisbursed                                    0.0    25.4
1977               246                  235                                       Outstanding inc. undisbursed                   0.0    56.8
1/ Gross foreign assets of Central Bank.
2/ Net foreign assets of monetary system.
3/ Estimated.
4/ Preliminary estimate of ratio of debt service to
exports of goods and non-factor services.
not available
WA2DA
May 12, 1978



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1978)
Amount /1
US$ Million
Credit                                                    (less cancellations)
Number     Year      Borrower          Purpose            IDA      Undisbursed
One Credit fully disbursed                                3.5
144-DA     1969      Dahomey      Oil Palm               5.2 /2         0.0 /4
307-DA     1972      Dahomey      Cotton                 6.1            0.0 /5
415-DA     1973      Dahomey      Roads                 20.8 /3         4.7
583-DA     1975      Dahomey      Rural Education and
Training            4.0            3.8
716-BEN    1977      Benin        Technical Assistance  1.7             1.7
717-BEN    1977      Benin        Feeder Roads           5.5            5.2
746-BEN    1977      Benin        Third Highway         10.0           10.0
TOTAL                              56.8           25.4
of which has been repaid            0.0
TOTAL now outstanding              56.8
TOTAL now held by IDA              56.8
TOTAL undisbursed                  25.4
/1   Prior to Exchange Adjustment.
/2   Including a Supplementary Credit of $0.6 million made in 1974.
/3   Including a Supplementary Credit of $9 million made in 1976.
/4   Balance $24,448.00.
/5   Balance $11,125.96.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit No. 307      Zou-Borgou Cotton Project; US$6.1 million Credit of
May 24, 1972
The Project was to comprise the provision of staff and equipment
to the National Agricultural Society for Cotton (SONACO) to administer agri-
cultural extension, credit and primary marketing services; the establishment
of a revolving fund to supply credit to cotton growers; construction of two
cotton ginneries; rehabilitation of 620 km of feeder roads; applied research;
and a feasibility study for agricultural diversification in the project area.
The project initially reached appraisal production estimates but production
has fallen considerably in the past three years. This was due to a com-
bination of deficiencies in project management, input supply and extension
services, unfavorable Government pricing policy and unfavorable climatic
conditions. The project has been more successful in expanding the produc-
tion of rice and hybrid maize and introducing ox-drawn cultivation. A non-
quantifiable but important benefit of the project has been the organization
of effective farmers groups.
Credit No. 415      Second Highway Project; US$11.8 million Credit of
July 3, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Due to inflation and currency realignments, project cost estimates
increased to US$23.2 million or 77 percent above the original cost estimates.
The Association provided a supplementary credit of US$9.0 million on March 10,
1976. Construction of the Southern section of the Parakou-Malanville road
was successfully completed in June 1977.
Credit No. 583      Rural Education and Training Project; US$4.0 million
Credit of September 5, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This project consists of two main components: (i) buildings and
equipment for a skills upgrading center in Cotonou; and (ii) technical assis-
tance, buildings and equipment for an ongoing rural youth training program.
The project is proceeding well, about on schedule. Constuction contracts have
been awarded. The two project directors and the technical assistants are now
in post.
Credit No. 716      Technical Assistance Project US$1.7 million Credit of
May 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project is designed to prepare the way for a rural development
project. It would be carried out over two years and would include mainly
provision for technical assistance to SONAGRI, the project's executing agency,
in financial management and project preparation and evaluation, procurement of
trucks and staff vehicles, provision of consultant services to make investment
proposals for areas to be cleared of onchocerciasis, and in adaptive research
in cotton and foodcrops. The six experts are in post and the project is
starting well.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3 pages
Credit No. 717      Feeder Roads Project; US$5.5 million Credit of May 30,
1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
This project consists of a three-year program for the improvement
and subsequent maintenance of about 1,270 km of feeder roads, the purchase
of highway maintenance equipment and spare parts, and technical assistance to
the Ministry of Equipment. The equipment has been delivered and the technical
assistance team recruited.
Credit No 746       Third Highway Project US$10 million Credit of November 18,
1977; Closing Date:  December 31, 1980
This project is designed to facilitate access to the Port of Cotonou
by providing for the rehabilitation of a 107 km section of the country's
main north-south highway; it also aims at expanding the highway maintenance
program begun under the two previous highway projects, including the elimina-
tion of the backlog of bituminous and laterite roads resurfacing. The credit
is not effective yet, but the equipment has been ordered and the technical
assistance has been recruited. The work is expected to start on schedule.



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
BENIN
COTONOU PORT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
1.   Project Preparation
a.   Port master development plan:  BCEOM                 January 1975
b.   Study of development alternatives:  BCEOM            November 1976
c.   Study of port operations and cargo handling:    April 1977
Port of Marseilles/FAC
d.   Detailed engineering, economic and financial    August 1977
studies:  BCEOM                                     December 1977
2.   Date of first mission to Cotonou                          April 1975
3.   Date of first project brief                               May 13, 1975
4.   Date of departure of appraisal mission                    September 26, 1977
5.   Negotiations                                              May lst-5th, 1978
Section II: Special Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
(a)  prepare a plan of action by June 30, 1979 to improve the
average time of transshipment and to increase the capacity of
the transshipment facilities of the Parakou terminal and to have
these improvements effective by December 31, 1980 (para. 30);
(b) increase the productivity of the general cargo handling opera-
tions within the port to ten metric tons per gang/hour within
six months from the time that the civil works included in the
project become fully operational (para. 37);



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(c) assure the coordination of the tariff studies carried
out by PAC, OBEMAP and OCBN (para. 47).
(d) second senior staff acceptable to the Association to work
alongside the engineering consultants and a Beninese
counterpart to the project coordinator (para. 49);
(e) incorporate in PAC's accounts by December 31, 1979 the
replacement value of all fixed assets in use, and there-
after to revalue its assets at least every five years
(para. 60);
(f)  agree to reduce the balance of PAC's receivables by
December 31, 1979, to about two months average gross
revenues, or not more than 20 percent of gross revenues,
and to introduce deterrents such as advance deposits
(para. 60);
(g) take necessary measures including tariff increases to
achieve a minimum rate of return, before income tax, on
average net fixed assets in use as revalued from time to
time of 5 percent in 1980 and 8 percent thereafter (para.
61);
(h) not to incur non-project capital expenditure exceeding
CFAF 100 million per year until December 31, 1985 (para.
62).
2.        Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) the appointment of the engineering consultants and the
project coordinator (para. 49);
(b) the conclusion of a Subsidiary Agreement between the
Government and PAC (para. 53);
(c) effectiveness of the financing agreements with the AfDB,
BADEA, CIDA, FAC and Norway and the authorization of the
loans of ADF and CCCE (para. 54).



_    x   S     N        oG    E R.  IBRD 13125
-12                   f                o2S             t    -             o r               o   
I?~~~~~
fi5b,  P       /2            13    /            df \\_gK~~~~                     ~          ~~~ANDI  91
NGUIETA                           )
NATITINGOdelo-
C)
COTONOU PORT
I.~~~~~~.
Koo6'.     seko             Ma- Roads-
o  B O  i 8                > B oure'   (                                                     J~~~~~~~~~~S a
-  V   /e        0 (                      P-sTd Roads
Ooaa        --  --  RooE.th Roads
A   F   R    C  A                                 RQCn\          /o
-7\    ;'BRN I N                                                                            ltnooolA,rPost
_jj                                                                   DC-3 Cs-o ty A oPo.2
Osb                               ,SO5  0                                0  00 00y 40io  00
~9                        008Masilg                 /     Tchoos         a lo
oo~o.~Absse    ~CRTO0J(VC~s,  -     LAGOS
.1                                                             A PAA
Pooo                K  boas
-B" jl 5AZALOO1 | COTO~~~~~NOU OR
LOV                 #              &             T             $.E  f ;                P\J  
The~~~~~ -wo G  Un                                                                                      JssA  h \Dso20UARY1 /






IROD 13126
Cotooov > %Re-nly  -onrtr d (1977) barrage
Logoon          -to prevent saaleatt entehrg I agoon
C  0  T  0  N O   U
/                            t_                                   )                      L~~~gte,,                /                   Ma2ssive erosion          ~     - _
tLzz-~~~--~~,~  /                  (Continuin~g)
Iate                                                                                                              Ea st g r-   IIII I  I  / _     _ omin buitg after,
-- --                        Corsiasrabi                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Port to atept to
<\    //           ==c== L-@tston                                            Consideroble chonzes m~~~~~~~~~~~~~i tire shoreline   reduce erosion
Esisting  port Faliy                                         .    -                                       with ref loss of sand now arolenoted
fl \\     W                                                        '- Cl :1    _ 1  rWest bank prreorive  following construction of boroge
wkork and groin built                                                                                                                                    tL GPE R           -ER
--~~ -f/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1-- ___ Saad4brh  atrpr  PE   t
honelir  odconcirg                                             ,.                             Derelict                                                                                                                                                                      VC,H,  I., p,t  OTA
BEN IN
COTONOU PORT PROJECT                                                                                                           BENIN
Changes in Coostal Regime Following ConStruction of Port
New rut-of f bre2kwoter \ \                                                                                                                                                                                                                              i\ 
included n projert to   \\                                                                                                             Co-stme 1963
cas accretion to                                                                                                                             _joat  e976
continue                                                                                                                      Ef1 Transit stheds                                                                                                |TOGO             rt GERIA
A  r L AN  T I C          0 C L A N                                                   R - -RyilwaotracEs tckI,
o     2       06 4c    cO   800    1000                                                      d        cionw coc,en
(sca es a psoxlmole  .................e.....uuui_t onEi r sasusisot                            I 
nTEd_ n_  _                                                                         v         _      I,rr.r.. n.nsrv
o         000       rooc       30o                                                           rsns.ssrs
IETttWeashshsi,srs                                                                                           Ctoo             rn






IBRD 13127
L--j                                                                           >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NI.GEIR
C ~~~   ~~~~~~ 0  T[                          = ~                                                               UPPER   < \
VOLTA             '-
_______                      Main en~~~~~~traince to port                                                                                             B E N I N
HOel tole~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Drlc
C.",.,,.d to  ........... ....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tM  na                                                                        wat
POERT port use~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h                                                                                              n
Li  F-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bnaa aoaa~ha
t                                                                                                                 TOGO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nen s
pott                                                             NIGERI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UakAe- 5Att
(Lot 1)                    (e"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tat~yaeaa
New  asindreded   ttssaexirstin W0                                                                  20s0    40po0 5bs00                                                 P-60N
to - 1 1 meters (- 36 feet)  brecrkwater to        in                                                                                         L~~~~METhR
be demolisike  -II motors H6 foet)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAtt~ 



