CONFROMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 826 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Cotonou Port Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 6, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 826 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 6, 1978, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BENIN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of Parts A, D, G, H, I and J of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the
Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Borrower for the
benefit of the Port Autonome de Cotonou (hereinafter called PAC),
the Office Beninois des Manutentions Portuaires (hereinafter
called OBEMAP) and the Organisation Commune Benin-Niger des
Chemins de Fer et des Transports (hereinafter called OCBN);
(C) the Borrower intends to contract with the Abu Dhabi
Fund (hereinafter called Abu Dhabi) for a loan (hereinafter called
the Abu Dhabi Loan) in an amount equivalent to approximately
$2,620,000 to assist in financing Part F of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into
between Abu Dhabi and the Borrower (hereinafter called the Abu
Dhabi Loan Agreement);
(D) the Borrower intends to contract with the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (hereinafter called BADEA) for a
loan (hereinafter called the BADEA Loan) in an amount equivalent
to approximately $4,600,000 to assist, inter alia, in financing
Part C of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement to be entered into between BADEA and the Borrower
(hereinafter called the BADEA Loan Agreement);
(E) PAC intends to contract with the Caisse Centrale de
Coop&ration Economique (hereinafter called CCCE) for a loan
(hereinafter called the CCCE Loan) in an amount of 15,280,000
French francs, equivalent to approximately $3,120,000, to assist
in financing Part E of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement to be entered into between CCCE and PAC
(hereinafter called the CCCE Loan Agreement);
(F) the Borrower intends to contract with CCCE so as to
guarantee the obligations of PAC under the CCCE Loan Agreement;


﻿-2-
(G) the Borrower intends to contract with the Government of
Canada, acting through the Canadian International Development
Agency (hereinafter called CIDA) for a grant (hereinafter called
the CIDA Grant) in an amount of $11,000,000 Canadian dollars,
equivalent to approximately $10,000,000, to assist in financing
Part B of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement to be entered into between CIDA and the Borrower (here-
inafter called the CIDA Grant Agreement);
(H) the Borrower intends to contract with the Fonds d'Aide
et de Coop&ration (hereinafter called FAC) for a grant (herein-
after called the FAC Grant) in an amount equivalent to approxi-
mately $1,500,000 to assist in financing Part A of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered
into between FAC and the Borrower (hereinafter called the FAC
Grant Agreement);
(I) PAC intendr to contract with the African Development
Bank (hereinafter cailed ADB), as agent for the Nigerian Trust
Fund, for a loan (hereinafter called the ADB Loan) in an amount
equivalent to approximately $2,r40,000 to assist in financing
Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement to be entered into between ADB and PAC (hereinafter
called the ADB Loan Agreement);
(J) the Borrower intends to contract with ADB so as to
guarantee the obligations of PAC under the ADB Loan Agreement;
(K) the Kingdom of Norway is to assist in the financing of
Parts A and D of the Project in an amount provided to the Borrower
on a grant basis equivalent to eight million three hundred thou-
sand dollars ($8,300,000) pursuant to the Agreement between the
Kingdom of Norway and the Association of even date herewith; the
proceeds of such grant shall be applied, pro rata and as of the
date of their withdrawal by the Association from the special
account to be opened for this purpose by the Kingdom of Norway,
towards discharging the liability of the Borrower to the Associa-
tion for repayment of a corresponding portion of each outstanding
maturity of the Credit and, consequently, no service charges
shall accrue in respect of such portions of the Credit as from the
date of such withdrawal; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement and in the
General Conditions, unless the context otherwice requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PAC pursuant to Section 3.04
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(b) "CFA francs" and "CFAF" mean francs in the currency
of the Borrower;
(c) "PAC Statuts" means the statutes of PAC as pro-
mulgated by Ordinance No. 76-55 of the Borrower dated October 11,
1976, as such statutes may be further amended from time to
time;
(d) "Project Preparation Advance" means collectively the
two project preparation advances granted by the Association to
the Borrower pursuant to two exchanges of letters dated October 12
and 27, 1976 and March 29 and April 18, 1977 between the Borrower
and the Association; and
(e) "Ad Hoc Commission" means the Commission established
by Decree No. 77-315 of the Borrower dated December 10, 1977.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to nineteen million three hundred thousand dollars
($19,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) As of the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as
of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwith-
drawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation
Advance shall be cancelled as of the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1982
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.


﻿-5-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1988, and ending May 15,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out, through its Ministry of Transport and under the
supervision of its Ad Hoc Commission, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, accouncing and engineering practices, and shall pro-
vide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist in supervising the
execution of the civil works included in Parts A through F of the
Project and in carrying out Parts G, I and J of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
(b) By November 30, 1978 or such later date as may be
agreeable to the Association, the Borrower shall second senior
members of its staff with qualifications and experience satisfac-
tory to the Association, to the staff of the consultants employed
to assist in supervising the execution of the civil works included
in Parts A through F of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part H of the Project, the Borrower shall, by March 31, 1979
or such later date as may be agreeable to the Association, employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.


﻿(b) In order to assist in implementing the Project, the
Borrower shall employ a Project Coordinator whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association; such Project Coordinator shall be
assisted by a Beninois counterpart whose qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall relend to PAC such
amounts in various currencies out of the proceeds of the Credit as
may be allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2) and (3)
of the table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, under a subsidiary loan agreement (the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and PAC under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, including, inter alia, the terms and conditions set forth in
paragraph (b) of this Section.
(b) The Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall provide that the
amounts so relent to PAC shall be repaid over a period of twenty
years, including five years of grace, and shall bear interest at
the rate of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the
principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
(c) The proceeds of the Credit allocated to Categories (5)
and (6) of said table shall be made available by the Borrower to
OBEMAP and OCBN, respectively, in the form of grants.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to provide as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required in order to enable the carrying out of Parts A through F
of the Project.
Section 3.07. Upon the completion of each of the tariff
studies to be carried out under the Project, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association copies of the final reports recording


﻿the results of such studies together with the Borrower's proposals
to carry out any of the recommendations emanating from such
studies, and the Association shall be afforded a reasonable
opportunity to comment thereon before any such recommendation
shall be implemented.
Section 3.08. By March 31, 1980 or such later date as may be
agreeable to the Association, the Borrower shall, in accordance
with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, have
completed the Coastal Protection Works Study included in Part H of
the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proc-ads of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the reports, contract
documents and work schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including the costs thereof), to estimate the benefits to be
derived therefrom and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit and examine all equipment,
installations, construction sites, works, buildings and property
related to the Project and to examine any relevant records and
documents, all so as to enable the proper execution of the
Project; and (iii) furnish to the Association at regular intervals
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its costs and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived therefrom, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿-8-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its costs and the benefits derived and
to be derived therefrom, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit with respect to the Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall ensure that, upon the com-
pletion of Parts A through G of the Project, title to the physical
assets provided under such Parts of the Project will have been
transferred to PAC and that the accounts and financial statements
of PAC will duly reflect the values of all assets provided under
such Parts of the Project based on the costs incurred by the
Borrower on account of such assets, including the costs of con-
sulting services incurred in respect of physical assets; provided,
however, that, by December 31, 1981, title to all assets completed
or placed into service on or before that date shall have been
transferred to PAC and the accounts and financial statements of
PAC shall duly reflect the values of such assets based on their
before-mentioned costs.
Section 3.12. Upon completion of the study of roll-on/roll-
off facilities under Part G (g) of the Project, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association copies of the final report recording
the results of such study together with its proposals to carry out
any of the recommendations emanating from such study, and the
Association shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to comment
thereon before any such recommendation shall be implemented.
ARTICLE IV
Other Obligations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall, after a study, submit to
the Association, by June 30, 1979 or such later date as may be
agreeable to the Association, a plan of action to improve the
average time of transshipment and to increase the capacity of the
transshipment facilities at the road/rail terminal at Parakou
in order to meet traffic demand and shall take all measures
necessary to ensure that such improvement and increase will be
effective by December 31, 1980.


﻿-9-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall ensure that, by a date six
months after the first day that all facilities constructed under
the Project become fully operational or such later date as
may be agreeable to the Association, the rate of productivity of
the general cargo handling operations within the Port of Cotonou
has increased to, and that thereafter such rate is maintained at,
a minimum of ten metric tons per gang/hour.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to
ensure that, from December 31, 1979 or such later date as may be
agreeable to the Association onwards, title to all assets used by
PAC in its operations shall be duly and effectively vested in
PAC.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause all its services,
agencies and enterprises charged with the handling, transportation
or clearance of goods passing through, or charged with the provi-
sion of services required for the efficient operation of the
facilities of, the Port of Cotonou at all times to manage their
affairs, to conduct their operations, and to maintain, repair and
renew the equipment and facilities operated by them, all in
accordance with appropriate administrative, engineering, finan-
cial, port management, cargo handling and transport standards and
practices.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the PAC Statuts shall, without the prior approval of the
Association, have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed,
waived, or shall cease to be enforced, so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or financial condition of PAC;
(b) the Borrower or PAC shall have failed to perform any
of its respective covenants, agreements or obligations set forth
in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have dissolved, disestablished or suspended the operations
of PAC;


﻿- 10 -
(d) the Abu Dhabi Loan Agreement has not been signed by
January 31, 1979 or has not become effective by April 30, 1979;
(e) the CCCE Loan Agreement has not been signed by Janu-
ary 31, 1979 or has not become effective by February 28, 1979; and
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to assist
in financing any Part of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
recipient of such grant or loan to perform any
of its obligations under such agreement, and (B)
adequate funds for all Parts of the Project are
available to such recipient from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Bcrrower under this Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (c) and (f) (i)
(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿- 11 -
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and PAC, respectively, has occurred and has been
duly authorized or ratified by all appropriate authorities;
(b) engineering consultants required for the supervision of
the civil works included in the Project, with qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment that are
satisfactory to the Association, have been appointed;
(c) the Project Coordinator referred to in Section 3.03 (b)
of this Agreement has been appointed in accordance with the
provisions of that Section;
(d) all of the conditions of effectiveness of the BADEA Loan
Agreement, the CIDA Grant Agreement, the FAC Grant Agreement and
the ADB Loan Agreement, with the exception.of the effectiveness of
any other such agreement or the Development Credit Agreement, have
been fulfilled; and
(e) the Abu Dhabi Loan and the CCCE Loan have been duly
authorized by Abu Dhabi and CCCE, respectively.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditi:ons, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the execution of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
the Borrower and PAC and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PAC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date January 4, 1979, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 302
Cotonou
People's Republic of Benin
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFINANCES                       522 MINECOP
Cotonou
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By Is/ Thomas Boya
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works under           13,450,000         75%
Parts A and D of
the Project
(2) Supervision and              1,700,000         85%
coordination ser-
vices under Parts
A through F of the
Project
(3) Consulting ser-                810,000         85%
vices under Part
G of the Project
(4) Consulting ser-                510,000         85%
vices under Part
H of the Project
(5) Consulting ser-                810,000         85%
vices under Part
I of the Project
(6) Consulting ser-                170,000         85%
vices under Part
J of the Project


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(7) Refunding of Project           500,000        amounts
Preparation Advance                          disbursed
(8) Unallocated                  1,350,000
TOTAL        19,300,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿- 15 -
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expen-
ditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are:
(i) to increase the general cargo handling capacity of
the Port of Cotonou through renovation and expan-
sion of the port's facilities and improvement in
port and cargo handling operations;
(ii) to study and set competitive port and related
tariffs in order to maximize returns to the
Borrower;
(iii) to improve OCBN's operations along the "Benin
Route"; and
(iv) to provide a proper basis for long-term investment
planning for coastal protection.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
(a) Construction of approximately 660 m of berths, including
protection of the northern edge of the new port basin;
and
(b) provision of a roll-on/roll-off facility.
Part B:
(a) Dredging of the entrance channel;
(b) dredging of a sand/silt trap;
(c) dredging of the existing port basin;
(d) dredging of the new port basin; and
(e) filling to required levels: (i) the area behind the
berthface constructed under Part A of the Project; and
(ii) the southern edge of the port basin.


﻿- 17 -
Part C:
(a) Demolition of approximately 320 m of the existing west
breakwater; and
(b) construction of a cut-off breakwater projecting seawards
from the west breakwater.
Part D:
Construction behind the berthface of:
(a) drainage facilities, a water distribution system,
fire hydrants and public sanitary facilities;
(b) paved areas, roadways, sidewalks and entrances and
exits;
(c) a weighbridge;
(d) railway trackwork; and
(e) customs fencing to enclose the new works under
Parts A, D and E of the Project.
Part E:
Construction of two transit sheds (120 x 50 m each).
Part F:
Provision and installation of all floodlighting and electri-
cal works required to serve the facilities constructed
under Parts A, C and D of the Project, including replacement
of floodlighting at the port entry and on the east and west
breakwaters.
Part G:
Strengthening of PAC's management, operations and financial
position with the assistance of consulting services, through:
(a) training its management in port operations and control;


﻿- 18 -
(b) reorganizing its accounting system, introducing cost
control, strengthening its internal audit, revaluing its
fixed assets, and imparting the staff training necessary
for proper accounting and financial management;
(c) implementing a suitable scheduled maintenance program in
its engineering section;
(d) establishing and carrying out training programs within
the port confines for PAC employees engaged in the
handling and berthing of vessels, and for the mechanics
and technicians responsible for the running of the
port's vessels and mechanical equipment;
(e) establishment of appropriate policies on pilotage
charges and on the training of pilots;
(f) a study of the tariffs set and to be set by PAC for its
services; and
(g) a study of appropriate roll-on/roll-off facilities
for the Port of Cotonou.
Part H:
A study of protection works for the coastal regions adjacent
to the port, to be carried out by the Borrower with the
assistance of consulting services, so as to propose the
measures required to ensure protection of the shoreline,
to provide a detailed plan of action and program of coastal
protection works, and to provide cost estimates of such
works.
Part I:
Strengthening of OBEMAP's management, operations and finan-
cial position, with the assistance of consulting services,
through:
(a) developing training programs for all levels of its
staff;
(b) training of suitable candidates to fill the vacant
positions of assistant chief stevedores, berth super-
intendents, transit shed supervisors, and berth gang
foremen;


﻿- 19 -
(c) study and implementation of a program        of regular
equipment maintenance and renewal, including the
recruitment and training of workshop personnel and
supervisors;
(d) a study of the tariffs set and to be set by OBEMAP for
its services; and
(e) reorganizing its accounting system, introducing cost
control, strengthening its internal audit, revaluing its
fixed assets, and imparting the staff training necessary
for proper accounting and financial management.
Part J:
Strengthening of OCBN's management, operations and financial
position, with the assistance of consulting services through:
(a) a study of the Parakou railway terminal to improve its
marshalling yard and transshipment facilities;
(b) designing and implementing measures for the improve-
ment of operations at the Parakou railway terminal,
including staff training and re-training;
(c) reviewing traffic forecasts and determining the invest-
ments needed to cope with expected railway demand
over the next decade;
(d) designing and implementing measures for the improvement
of its operations and management;
(e) strengthening its training and policies; and
(f) a study of the tariffs set and to be set by OCBN for its
services including road transport.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works for Parts A and D of the Project shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the civil works for Parts A and D of the Project
shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 21 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the territory of the Borrower if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in the
territory of the Borrower equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the territory of the Borrower.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 22 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works to be procured in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a
margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower and
accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic pre-Frence. The bidding documents shall
clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications


﻿- 23 -
in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part C above and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such
eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the Bor-
rower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to,
deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.


﻿-24-
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such'\contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 5.0% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. If the Association deter-
mines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions
of this Agreement, it shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Management and Operations of PAC
1.   PAC shall at all times, in close cooperation and coordination
with OBEMAP, manage its affairs, maintain its financial position,
plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in
accordance with appropriate business, administrative, financial,
engineering and port management practices and under the supervi-
sion of experienced and competent management assisted by qualified
and competent staff.
2.   PAC shall adequately maintain the works, installations and
equipment used in its operations and promptly make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with sound engi-
neering and port management standards and practices.
3.   PAC shall at all times take all such action as shall be
necessary on its part to acquire and retain such land, interests
in land and properties, and to acquire, maintain and renew such
licenses, consents, franchises and other rights, as may be
necessary or useful for the purpose of carrying out Parts A
through F of the Project and the carrying on of its operations.
4.   PAC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice, taking into account the
asset values reflected in its balance sheets as such values shall
be revised from time to time in accordance with generally accepted
and consistently maintained methods of valuation acceptable to the
Association.
5.   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, PAC shall not
sell, lease, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of any of its
rights or assets except in the ordinary course of business.
6.   In operating its facilities, PAC shall take or cause to be
taken all measures within its powers as shall be necessary to
provide appropriate environmental protection within the limits of
the Port of Cotonou.
7.   PAC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.


﻿- 26 -
8.   PAC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors proposed by the Borrower and acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including the assessment of said
auditors of its financial management; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of PAC and the audit thereof as the Asso-
ciation shall from time to time reasonably request.
9.   PAC shall, in its accounts and financial statements for
its fiscal year ending December 31, 1979, incorporate, on the
basis of a physical inventory, the value of all fixed assets
in use by PAC.
10. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association may otherwise
agree, PAC shall from time to time take all necessary measures,
including but not limited to adjustments in its tariffs, as shall
be required to enable PAC to earn an annual rate of return of not
less than 5.0% for its fiscal year 1980 and not less than 8.0% for
each fiscal year thereafter.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated
in respect of each fiscal year by dividing the
net operating revenue for that year by the average
of the net value of the fixed assets in operation
at the beginning and at the end of that year,
expressed in terms of a percentage;
(ii) the term "net operating revenue" shall mean the
difference between (A) all gross operating revenue
resulting from PAC's services and (B) operating
and administrative expenses, including maintenance
and taxes (if any) and adequate provision for
depreciation based on the replacement cost of
assets, but excluding interest and other charges
on debt and "imp8ts sur les benefices" (if any);


﻿- 27 -
(iii) the term "net value of fixed assets in operation"
shall mean the gross value of fixed assets in
operation less the accumulated depreciation, both
as valued from time to time in accordance with
generally accepted and consistently maintained
methods of valuation; and
(iv)  the assets and their accumulated depreciation shall
be revalued on the basis of the replacement cost
of the assets at appropriate intervals of not more
than five years, the first reevaluation to take
place not later than December 31, 1979.
11. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, PAC shall not
make expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, for fixed
or capital assets (including investments in or loans to other
entities) except:
(a) expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, required
for the carrying out of Parts A through F of the Project;
(b) expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, required
for repairs, maintenance or replacement of its assets; and
(c) other expenditures, or commitments for expenditures,
for such assets not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of
one hundred million CFA francs (CFAF100,000,000) in each fiscal
year of PAC up to and including December 31, 1985.
12. By December 31, 1979 or such other date as may be agreeable
to the Association, PAC shall reduce and thereafter maintain the
balance of its receivables at not more than the equivalent of
twenty per cent (20%) of PAC's annual gross operating revenue by
taking such measures as may be necessary, including, if necessary,
the introduction of a system of advance deposits.


