CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 827 IND
Project Agreement
(Rural Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
Dated June 23, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 827 IND
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA (hereinafter called BRI).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount iu various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that BRI agrees to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between Bank Indonesia, on behalf of the Borrower, and BRI, the
proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be made available to BRI on the terms and condi-
tions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BRI, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BRI shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and technical practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Without any limitation or restriction on BRI's
obligations under Section 2.01 of this Agreement, BRI shall carry
out Part A of the Project in conformity with the Rules and
Regulations, as such Rules and Regulations may be amended from
time to time by BI, and with the Annex to Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) In order to assist BRI in carrying out
Parts B (i), (ii) and C of the Project, BRI shall employ con-
sultants or specialists whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
(b) BRI shall take all steps necessary to employ the program
development economist, the training specialist, two of the three
development bankers and two of the three agriculturalists included
in Part B (i) of the Project not later than January 1, 1979, or
such other da'te as the Association shall agree, and to employ the
third development banker and the third agriculturalist included
therein not later than April 1, 1979 or such other date as the
Association shall agree.
(c) BRI shall take all steps necessary to employ the consul-
tants required under paragraph (a) of this Section to carry out
Part C of the Project not later than April 1, 1979 or such other
date as the Association shall agree.
Section 2.04. BRI shall afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to comment on the qualifications and experience of the
candidates for the position of head of the Program Development
Department of its Planning Bureau before making any appointment to
the said position before the Closing Date.
Section 2.05. (a) BRI shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the reports and contract docu-
ments for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) BRI: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost) and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Associa-
tion's representatives to visit the facilities and work sites


﻿-3-
included in the Project and to examine the goods iinanced out of
such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent
to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
shall include, inter alia, separate accounts for all Sub-loan
approvals, disbursements, collections and arrears, on a branch
basis. Such separate accounts for each fiscal year shall be
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing procedures
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, and shall be furnished to the Association, not later
than nine months after the end of each such fiscal year.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Associa-
tion and BRI, BRI shall prepare and furnish to the Association
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Association and BRI of
their respective obligations under the Prcject Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.06. BRI shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. F,cept as the Association
shall otherwise agree, BRI shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. BRI shall, not later than February 1 in each
year, starting not later than February 1, 1979, furnish to the
Association an annual lending program for each Sub-loan category
based on a review of Project performance in the previous year (or,
in the case of the first such review, a review of the performance
of programs for the same Sub-loan categories in the Project Area)
for lending under Part A of the Project for the twelve-month
period beginning April 1 in such year. The lending targets for
each Sub-project category, the Provinces in the Project Area in
which lending for each category will take place and the extent
of support of the Borrower's agencies required for such lending
shall be included in such program and shall be acceptable to the
Association.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. (a) BRI shall take such measures as shall be
necessary to ensure that its branches participating in the Project
achieve and maintain a satisfactory level of Sub-loan collection
performance. The improvement of the performance of branches which
have not achieved an annual collection rate of seventy percent
under the Project shall be of particular concern to BRI.
(b) Not later than February 1 in each year starting not
later than February 1, 1980, or such other date as the Association
shall agree, and until the Closing Date, BRI shall review with the
Association the measures taken by BRI and the results achieved by
it on Sub-loan collection performance in the previous calendar
year.
(c) For the purpose of this Section:
(i) "collection rate" means the percentage of demand
which has been collected; and
(ii) "demand" means the aggregate of:
(A) amounts of principal overdue at the beginning
of the preceding four quarter period; and
(B) amounts of principal fallen due during the
said period.
Section 2.09. (a) BRI shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) BRI shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by BRI of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BRI
Section 3.01. BRI shall at all times carry on its operations,
manage its affairs, plan its future development and maintain its
financial position in accordance with sound banking practices.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. BRI shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. BRI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of BRI and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of BRI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date fifteen years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms, before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify BRI
of this event.


﻿-6-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BRI:
Kantor Besar Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Jalan Veteran 8
P.O. Box 94
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                      Telex:
KABEBRI                             44300 KBBRI IA
Jakarta                             44220 KBBRI IA


﻿-7-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BRI may be taken or executed by its
President Director or such other person or persons as the Board
of Directors of BRI shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. BRI shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of BRI, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by BRI pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
BANK RAKYAT IDONESIA
By /s/ Danudirdjo Ashari
Authorized Representative


