CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 827 IND
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 23, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 827 IND
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Bank Rakyat Indonesia
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Eorrower will make available to Bank Rakyat Indonesia the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Bank Rakyat Indonesia;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BRI" means Bank Rakyat Indonesia;


﻿-2-
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and BRI of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into be,tween the Borrower and BRI pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(d) "Project Area" means the provinces of East Java, Central
Java, West Java, South Sulawesi, South Sumatra and Lampung, the
Special Region of Yogyakarta and such other provinces and special
regions as shall be agreed from time to time between the Borrower
and the Association;
(e) "BI" means Bank Indonesia;
(f) "KIK" means Kredit Investasi Kecil, BI's program of
credit to small-scale enterprises for fixed asset financing;
(g) "KMKP" means Kredit Modal Kerja Permanen, BI's pro-
gram of credit to small-scale enterprises for permanent working
capital;
(h) "ASKRINDO" means P. T. Assuransi Kredit Indonesia,
a State enterprise established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower;
(i) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or to be made
by BRI out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to BRI by the
Borrower;
(j) "Sub-borrower" means a person or enterprise which has
obtained a Sub-loan;
(k) "Sub-project" means a project financed or to be financed
out of the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
1) "PMUs" means the Project Management Units, established
by the Borrower to provide extension and other supporting services
in the Project Area; and


﻿-3-
(m) "Rules and Regulations" means the following circulars or
decrees issued by BI:
(i) No. SE 6/37/UPK dated December 4, 1973, re:
Investment Credit for small entrepreneurs/small
investment credit;
(ii) No. SE 6/43/UPK dated December 20, 1973, re:
Liquidity credit for investment credit to small
entrepreneurs/small investment credit;
(iii) No. SE 6/47/UPK dated February 13, 1974, re:
Insurance premium payable for credit insurance
with PT ASKRINDO under KIK/KMKP;
(iv) No. SE 7/30/UPK dated September 20, 1974, re:
General regulation on drawing liquidity credit
from BI for Small Investment Credit and Permanent
Working Capital Credit;
(v) No. SE 7/47/UPK dated January 16, 1975, re: Eligi-
bility for using liquidity credit under Small
Investment Credit (KIK) and Permanent Working
Capital Credit (KMKP) for small entrepreneurs;
(vi) No. SE 7/51/UPK dated March 31, 1975, re: Criteria
for determining who is a small indigenous (pribumi)
entrepreneur under KIK/KMKP;
(vii) No. SE 8/5/UPK dated April 14, 1975, re: Maximum
time allowed to disburse KIK and KMKP loans that
use BI liquidity credits;
(viii) No. SE 8/35/UPK dated March 15, 1976, re: Col-
lateral for Small Investment Credit (KIK) and
Permanent Working Capital Credit (KMKP) to develop
small indigenous entrepreneurs;
(ix) No. SE 9/12/UPK dated February 4, 1977, re: Selec-
tive increase in the individual loan ceiling
under KIK/KMKP;
(x) No. SE 10/15/UPK dated November 24, 1977, re:
Procurement and disbursement procedures for KIK and
KMKP;


﻿-4-
(xi) No. 10/107/UPK dated December 30, 1977, re: Inter-
est rates of investment credit and permanent
working capital for small enterprise;
(xii) No. SE 10/22/UPK dated February 22, 1978, re:
Penalty on overdue loan principal and interest and
on unauthorized use of KIK and KMKP; and
(xiii) any circular or decree of BI which has the effect
of amending, waiving or abrogating any of the
circulars set forth or referred to in such para-
graphs (i) through (xii) of this paragraph (m).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1988, and ending March 1,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause BRI to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable BRI to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
to BRI, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between BI, acting on behalf of the Borrower, and BRI under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall strengthen the PMUs and the
extension services of the Directorates General of Estate Crops,
Animal Husbandry and Fisheries in its Ministry of Agriculture
located in the Project Area to provide adequate extension and
other supporting services to farmers benefiting from the Project.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) BRI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that BRI will be able to perform its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(c) BRI or the Borrower, or any other authority having
jurisdiction, shall have taken any action for the dissolution
or disestablishment of BRI or for the suspension of its opera-
tions;
(d) a default shall have occurred in the performance by the
Borrower or by BRI of any of its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
(e) BI shall have amended, waived, abrogated or repealed
any of the Rules and Regulations or any provision thereof and, in
the opinion of the Association, such amendment, waiver, abrogation
or repeal materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the
Project or the performance by BRI of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (d) of Sec-
tion 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and BRI; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of BRI
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action; and
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and BRI, respectively, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by BRI, and is legally binding upon BRI in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and BRI and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and BRI in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date September 26, 1978 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower;
Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Cenditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
c/o Director General of Monetary Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                  DITJMON JKT
Jakarta                           46415
For the Association:
International Development Assbciation
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Danudirdjo Ashari
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocatio! of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percertage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
CatgqSX                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans made              26,000,000         68% of amounts
by BRI                                        disbursed by
BI to BRI
(2) Consultants' and             2,300,000         100%
specialists services
(3) Training under Part            200,000         100% of foreign
B (iii) of the                                expenditures or
Project                                       50% of local
expenditures
(4) Unallocated                  1,500,000
30,000,000
TOTAL
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the


﻿- 10 -
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $300,000 may
be made in respect of Category (2) on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1977.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6. If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to expand and improve the supply
of long-term credit to smallholders and consists of the following
Parts:
A.   Credit
The provision of about 40,000 long-term loans to smallholders
in the Project Area for financially and economically sound Sub-
projects in agriculture, livestock, fisheries and related sub-
sectors which require term finance of more than five years. The
said loans shall be provided in accordance with the Rules and
Regulations and the Annex to this Schedule.
B.   Technical Assistance and Training for BRI
(i) The strengthening of BRI's term lending capability
through the utilization of the following technical
assistance:
(a) a program development economist;
(b) a training specialist;
(c) three development banking    specialists including
one senior specialist; and
(d) three agriculturalists, namely one perennial
crops specialist, one livestock specialist and
one fisheries specialist.
(ii) The completion of design and testing, and the implemen-
tation of a unified chart of accounts and the related
management information system and the review of the
operations of BRI's Jakarta Special Branch and Inter-
branch Clearing Office; and
(iii) Such training programs for BRI staff as may be agreed
between the Association and BRI.


﻿- 12 -
C.   A study of the Project's socio-economic impact.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1984.


﻿- 13 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
1.   Purposes of Sub-loans
(a) Sub-lans will finance Sub-projects in the following
categories:
(i) pepper
(ii) coffee
(iii) cattle breeding
(iv) brackish-water fishponds
(v) fresh-water fishponds
(vi) fishing boat motorization
(vii) ice plants
(b) Other categories in the agricultural sector may be
added to the above list by agreement between the Association, BI
and BRI, on the basis of appraisals of such categories furnished
to the Association by BRIL
(c) In additioa to Sub-loans in the categories set forth
or referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, Sub-loans may
be made for Sub-projects in other categories provided, however,
that:
(i) the branch of BRI which proposes to make such sub-
loans shall have made Sub-loans under paragraphs
(a) and (b) above in the previous 12-month period;
and
(ii) such Sub-loans do not exceed in the aggregate
20% of the aggregate of the amounts approved by
such branch under the Project.
(d) Sub-loans shall be used fo- the financing of investment
expenditures and working capital, ii _Luding the purchase of land,
provided that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to
finance the cost of land.


﻿- 14 -
2.   Eligibility of Sub-borrowers
The Rules and Regulations provide that enterprises or indi-
viduals whose net worth does not exceed Rp20 million, whose
net amount of assets are no more than RplO million and whose total
outstanding liabilities to banks (including any proposed Sub-loan)
do not exceed RplO million, shall be eligible to receive Sub-
loans. Exceptions to this rule shall be made under the Project
where justified, on a category-by-category basis for specific
types of Sub-projects.
3.   Amount
The Rules and Regulations specify that the amount of the
Sub-loan shall not exceed normally Rp5 million for any single
Sub-project. An exception will be made if the Sub-project to be
financed falls under a category covered by a specific lending
program which prescribes a Sub-loan ceiling higher than the Rp5
million limit.
4.   Maturity and Grace Period of Sub-loans
Under the Project, maturities shall be more than five years
but shall not exceed fifteen years, including an appropriate grace
period. Interest may be capitalized during the grace period.


