Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9543
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1358-BU)
APRIL 26, 1991
Population and Human Resources Operations
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
SDR I = US$1.089655 - FBu 98.06895
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
(Metric system in use throughout report)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB       -   African Development Bank
BASE       -   Bureau Africain des Sciences de l'Education
BEET       -   Technical Education Bureau
BEPES      -   Secondary Education Bureau
BER        -   Bureau d'Education Rurale (Office of Rural Education
CODIFOR    -   French Agency
EPU        -   Education Planning Unit
ETP        -   Ecle des Travaux Publics (Public Works School)
GTO        -   Offset Press
IDA        -   Inrternational Development Association
IIPE       -   International Institute for Education Planning
INFRE      -   Institut National de Formation et de Recherche en Educ.
JSS        -   Junior Secondary School (First Cycle Secondary)
MLC        -   Multipurpose Learning Centers (Primary Schools equipped
for practical works)
MNE        -  Ministry of National Education
MSA        -   Ministry of Social Affairs
OAU        -   Organization for African Unity
PCR        -   Project Completion Report
PIU        -   Project Implementation Unit
RPP        -   Regie des Productions Pedagogiques (Academic Printshop)
SC         -   Social Centers (Young and Adult Education Center)
TTI        -   Teacher Training Institute
UNESCO     -   United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
UNDF       -   United Nations Development Program



FOR omcUL uSK ONLY
THi WOItLO BANKt
Washin5ton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OMc a Oiuctmmns,a
Opwathm 1vo - tki
April 26, 1991
MEMORA-IDUM TO THE SEECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUEJECT:   Project Completion Report - Burundi
Third Education Project (Credit 1358-BU)
Attached, for information, Is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Burundi Third Education Project (Credit
1358-EU)J"  prepared by the Africa Regional Office.  No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
'
This document hs a rtrkicted distribution and may be jied by recipients only In the performance
of their oflcial duties. Its contents may not otherwisc be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



Page
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
4.    P:oject Costs and Financing                                               45
5.    Project Results                                                           46
6.    Compliance with Credit Agreement Covenants4
7.    Use of IDA Resources                                                      49
ANNEX 1     Exchange Rate Fluctuations                                           51



- i -
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
THIRD VEDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit No. 1358-BU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the project complotion report (PCR) fo: the Third
Education Project in Burundi, for which Credit 1358-BU in the amount of
SDR 14.5 million was approved on May 10, 1983. The Credit was closed on the
scheduled date of March 31, 1988. The balance of SDR 73.56 was cancelled on
September 13, 1988.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Population and Human Resources
Division of the Africa South-Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa
Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III) and the
Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR began during a UNESCO miasion financed by
AF3PH that visited Burundi from March 18 to April 5, 1989 and which produced a
factual roport that served as a basis for Parts I and III. The appraisal
report, Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the
Borrower and IDA, and IDA internal memoranda were also used.



,- iii q
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCAkTION PROJECT
(Credit No. 1358-BU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Proiect oblectives
1.          Designed as a continuation of the first two education projects
(Credits 679-BU and 976-BU), the project was aimed at increasing the number of
schools, primarily in rural areas, upgrading primary and secondary education,
and training young people and adults without formal education. More
specifically, project activities included the construction and equipping of 24
primary schools (MLCs), 4 junior secondary schools (JSSs), 2 primary teacher
training institutes (TTIs) and 20 social centers (SCs) for adults and
adolescents without formal education, production of textbooks, revision of
curricula for the tt %ining of teachers and adults, and the improvement of
product management. Two years before the end of the project implementation
period, because of the excellent progress, the means for achieving the
objectives were strengthened through education planning assistance, greater
training of national specialists and the construction of additional primary
and secondary schools (Part I, paras. 3 and 4).
Product implementation
2.          The project was implemented on schedule and achieved and even
exceeded its quantitative objectives. It was flawlessly administered and
managed by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which performed the
customary administrative duties (personnel management, liaison with IDA -d
technical government agencies, accounting and preparation of semi-annual
activity reports), while also overseeing the construction on force account of
most of the physical'elements of the project. Some construction was carried
out by private companies under the supervision of the PIU, which also prepared
the architectural programs (Part I, paras. 6, 7 and 8).
3.          The project was amended on April 22, 1986 to take advantage of the
advance of some 12 months over the timetable and the excellent financial
situition due primarily to a favorable SDR/FBu exchange rate. The amendment
made it possible to increase the number of places for boarders in the
secondary schools, the number of which was also incresed.
Proiect results
4.          Quantitative results.  All quantitative objectives regarding the
number of student places were achieved and even exceeded, but some schools
(TTIs and SCs) have not yet reached the expected enrollments (Part I, para. 15
and Part III, SA). The quality of construction for all schools was good, as



- iv -
regards both those constructed on forc account and those handled by private
firms, The construction costs for the two approaches were apparently very
similar. Nevertheless, given the reticence of private entrepreneurs to build
smoll schools on sites with difflcult access, work on force account will
always be necessary for the primary schools and some rural JSSs (Part I,
para. 10).
5.          Qualitative results.  The full qualitative effetes can be felt
only over the long term. However, it is already clear that thanks to the
manager training program, senior positions at the PIU, Education Planning Unit
(EPO) and the Academic Print Shop (Regie des Productions Pedagogiques - RPP)
have been entrusted to Burundi nationals. Regarding the other componentst
(a) tho MLC program deviated from what was envisaged during project
preparation, following the elimination of the practical activities of the
primary education program. The result was underutilization of premises and
equipment, which the Govi-nment and IDA are trying to remedy (Part I, para.
16); (b) TTI enrollments are low and in order to attract more students, the
Government decided to turn them into higher-level teacher training schools
(lycies Ptdazogiues) giving access to university *ducation, following two
years of teaching at the primary level. One big risk is that these schools
will provide training that is more theoretical than practical and the best
students will drop out of primary education teaching in order to go.on to
university (Part I1 para. 17); (c) although the quality of education at the
JSSs seems acceptable, the training program is occasionally constrained by the
latge number of students per class since some classrooms are usod as
dormitories, as are areas that were planned for libraries. In fact, the
project financed boarding facilities for only 50 percent of the students,
whereas practieally 100 percent are boarders. A solution to this problem was
discussed as part of the sectoral adjustment measures under the Fourth
Education Project (Part I, para. 18).
Proj ect sustainability
6.          All components that help train mauagers for positions of
administrative, technical and teaching responsibilities will have sustainable
effects. This training will allow activities to continue, and help project
management, preparation of new training programs, planning for the development
of the education system and the production of teaching aids. For primary and
secondary education, and to a lesser extent for socio-educative training, the
new schools will unquestionably provide access to education for a growing
number of children and adolescents in areas where such opportunities were
previously limited. The only possible risk is financial in nature, with the
Government having to carefully monitor its spending so that it can meet
increased expenditures related to its quantitative and qualitative performance
(Part I, para. 20).
Conclusions and lessons
7.          The financial and qualitative difficulties encountered during
project implementation (Part I, paras. 17, 18, 19 and 20) have led to a new
awareness of the close connection between the quantitative and qualitative



v 
dovelopment of the system and its financial impact. Financing problems,
whether resulting from the Increasing costs of boarder students, political
decisions decreeing universal education for children 7 years old, an lncrease
in the primary/secondary transition rate or future reforms, can be resolved
only if accompanied by measures to ensure savings through a carefully planned
adjustment program. The Government is now aware of this, and IDA should
ensure that its future participation in the development of Burundi's education
system occur in this context and stress the structural and qualitatlve aspects
as much as, if not more, the quantitative problems.



REPUBLIC Ol BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1358-BU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
A.          Project Identity and Key Indicators
Project name:                        Third Education Project
Credit:                              1358-BU
Country:                             Republic of Burundi
Sector:                              Education and training
Subsector:                           Primary education
Secondtry education
Socio-educative activities
Amount of credits                    SDR 14.5 million
Board approval:                      May 10, 1983
Original closing date:               March 31, 1988
Actual closing date:                 March 31, 1988.
B.          Socioeconomic Background
1.          When the Third Education Project was generated, the country's
economy was beginning a decline in the wake of a relatively favorable period.
At the end of 1981, the underlying weaknesses in Burundi's economy began to
resurface, especially because of a plunge in coffee prices. In addition,
decisionmakers were faced with difficulties related to the country's
landlocked position, widespread poverty (in 1982, per capita GDP was US$218),
scarce natural resources, a shortage of available farmland, few urban areas
with the exception of tne capital city of Bujumbura, sparse settlement and
jagged terrain, making communications difficult, and lastly, low literacy (in
1982, less than 10 percent of the adult population was literate and 29 percent
of children 7 to 12 years old had been to school). The new Five-Year
Development Plan (1983-1987), while setting ambitious objectives such as
expansion ini rural economic activity, decentralization and intensification of
social pzograms with a view to expanding access of the most disadvantaged to
education and health, and increasing agricultural production to meet food
needs, also called for limited growth in operating expenditures.
2.          The expected economic austerity hit the Ministry of Education at a
particularly delicate moment. Indeed, the 1983-1987 Plan called for it to
increase enrollment rates to the extent possible, from 29 percent in 1981 to
universal education of children 7 years old by 1992/93. Even though, as all
national education experts agreed, that date was overly ambitious, the other
education targets resulted from social pressure and had to be achieved. Among
others, these included dealing with an *nnual increase of 2.8 percent in the
school-age population, maintaining, and if possible, modestly increasing the



-2 -
transition rate between primary and secondary educatlon, and upgrading the
quality of education, its internal and external efficiency and adaptation to
the country's socioeconomic realities. All this was to be done with a current
expenditure budget that was cut froir 22 percent of appropriations in the State
budget in 1978 to 15 percent in 1981, and which was expLcted Ander the new
plan to be 18 percent at 'he end of the year.
C.    Prolect Obiectives and Description
3.          Although designed with two totally distinct aspects, one of  hich
was to be the responsibility of the Ministry of National Education (MNE) and
the other that of the Ministry of Social Affairs (MSA), the overall objective
of the Third Education Project was a quantitative and especially qualitative
improvement in education and training. Access to education and training in
the most deprived regions was to be increased and, to the e: went possible, to
affect segments of the population that had not yet received formal education,
through outreach activities at the social cen':ers.
4.          More specifically, the project was to cover!
(a)   The construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(i)    24 multipurpose learning centers (MLCs), each having six
classrooms and one home economics workshop, and able to
accommodate 480 students;
(ii)    4 junior secondary schools (first-cycle secondary) (JSSs),
each accommodating 320 students;
(iii)    2 primary teacher traiaing institutes (TTIs), also able to
accommodate 480 students. -- 160 teacher trainees and 320
general secondary students; --
(iv)    20 rural social centers (SCs), of which 2 were to be
entirely new and 18 expanded and rehabilitated, each able to
provide training for 120 adolescents or adults.
(b)   The provision of supplies and equipment necessary for the
production and distribution of textbooks by the RPP.
(c)   Materials, equipment, services of specialists and fellowships
needed to upgrade teacher training; development of training
programs and methods for illiterate adults; implementation of the
project construction program; and management of project activities
as a whole.
Later an amendment to the Credit Agreement dated April 22, 1986 authorized the
financing of additional boarding places    the JSSs and TTIs, construction of
five additional MLCs, rehabilitation o&    secondary schools, construction of
premises for the RPP and Office of Rural Education (Bureau d'Education Rurale
- BER), and additional technical assistance, (specialists and fellowships) for



- 3 -
the RPP, social affairs department and two technical schools opened under the
second project: the Public Works School (Ecole des Travaux Publics - ETP) and
the Secondary Technical School (Ecole Technique Secondaire - ETS).
D.    Pro1ect Design and Organization
5.          The initial request by the Government for financing a third
education project was intended to continue the second project. Thus, from the
beginning, the intention was to finance the construction and the functioning
of new MLCs, and to upgrade the quality of education and training for young
people and adults. As far as the management of the project was concerned,
since the activities of the second and third projects were intended to be
implemented simultaneously (between November 1983 and June 1986), and since
the existing management had proved very efficient when implementing the first
project and the first phase of the second project (see Completion Report on
the Second Education Project, Credit 976-BU, dated November 1987), the
intention was to use the same existing resources i.e. personnel, equipment,
vehicles and physical infrastructures.
6.          Three important conceptual points that emerged quickly were
discussed during preparation and negotiations. The first lnvolved the number-
-deemed high by IDA representatives--of boarders. While the Government
planned to resolve this problem in part by phasing out boarding capacity in
the cities, IDA technicians also wanted the government to consider eliminating
the countrywide competitive examination for entrance into secondary education,
replacing it with a competitive examination at the arrondissement level, which
would mean more localized recruitment and thus less student travel. Despite
the formulation of a detailed school map that was a condition of negotiations
and was designed to facilitate such regional recr itment, the national
competitive examination is still given. The s'"-ozid point discussed was
related to the construction of practical workshops in the MLCs. Given the low
use of the workshops built with financing under the Second Education Project
Credit 976-BU, IDA was reluctant to authorize the consttuction of a2UIonal
facilities that would meet the same type of problem. Ultimately, it was
agreed to build a single room for home economics courses, with the exception
of the two TTIs for which the cor,struction of three iooms for practical work
was finally decided. The last point concerned the role of the PIU in
construction and procurement. As one of the Bank's key objectives in Burundi
was to foster the emergence of small and medium enterprises in the private
sector, it seemed contradictory to award all construction works without
bidding to the PIU, which during the implementation of the second project
became the largest construction enterprise in the country, with some 1,6J0
contractual employees. Nevertheless, given the excellent results, both from
the qualitative and financial standpoints, and the fact that no reliable firm
would seek contracts for medium-sized buildings (MLCs, JSSs) on remote sites
to which access was often difficult, it was finally agreed during
negotiations that construction would largely be awarded to the PIU, but that
small local firms would be used for all contracts of less than the equivalent
of US$300,000. During negotiations, the Government and IDA also agreed that
some 10 MLCs and/or SCs would be awarded to private firms in order to promote
private enterprises and test their competitiveness.



- 4-
E.    Prolect ImDlementatimn
7.          Given the good results of the first two education projects
(Credits 679-BU and 976-BU), in which the objectives were achieved in full for
r.ll physical and material elements, no major difficulties had been
anticipated. Project implemtentation confirmed this, and the results show that
among all projects in the sector, the Third Education Project in Burundi can
be considered an example both for the speed with which the construction was
carried out and the equipment delivered, and for the quality of the works and
high level of discussions between the Government, IDA and other major donors
such as Belgium, France and UNDP, on adapting the education system to local
circumstances and the measures to be considered for its improvement.
Nevertheless, problems related to costs and financing in the sector, control
of growth in enrollment, and the quality of administrative and teaching
personnel, as well as the contents of programs and curricula or training
streams to be opened or abandoned depending on the real needs of the country,
were neither broached nor discussed under the project.
8.          As for the two previous projects, the construction was carried out
on force account by the PIU, with the exception of two MLCs and three SCs.
which were built by private firms. The PIU was also responsible for the
preparation of bidding documents, review of bids, contract signature and
distribution of furnishings and equipment to the various schools built under
the project. All these tasks were carried out in a highly professional
manner; record-keeping regarding accounts, inventory control, personnel and
daily activities done with the assistance of the most modern means, including
computers, largely facilitated the supervision of the successive IDA missions.
The PItl was also responsible for implementing an education project financed by
the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the end of the second IDA project.
Lastly, the PIU's efficiency meant that the project could be implemented ahead
of schedule and below the cost estimated at the time of appraisal, largely
owing to favorable changes in the SDR/FBu exchange rate.  These changes were
included in the Credit Agreement dated April 22, 1986, which content is
presented in details at the end of paragraph 4 above.
F.    Prolect Results
9.          Results relating to construction and equipment.  All project
objectives were achieved. Overall, the quality of work was good, and can even
be considered excellent for most MLCs and SCs. Supplies accounted for
55 percent of the total cost of construction. Of that total, 54.8 percent was
purchased following international competitive bidding and 1.5 percent after
local bidding. The balance of 43.7 percent of the total amount was obtained
through negotiated contracts, primarily involving purchases of cement
(5 percent), roofing materials (27 percent), fuel, transportation and tools
(44 percent); and electricity and plumbing (25 percent).
10.         As agreed (para. 6), two MLCs near Bujumbura (Magara and Mageyo)
and three SCs with relatively easy access (Kivyuka, Kinama and Giheta) were
built by private firms. According to cost records and PIU calculations, the
construction cost on force account was about 38 percent to 50 percent lower



- 5 -
than that of private firms. A UNESCO mis3ion financed by IDA for the
preparation of the Project Completion Report proposed a mesor revision of the
PIU's cost estimates to reflect services by expatriates, depreciation of
vehicles and equipment, taxes and cash reserves at the disposal of the PIU.
The mission thus suggested that to obtain comparable figures the cost of
construction on force account had to be multiplied by 1.68. In point of fact,
any comparison of the two approaches is very difficult. If all work had been
done by private firms, it would still have been necessary to use expatriates
to supervise preparation of the bidding documents, bid review, contract
preparation and frequent worksite inspections. Similarly, many private
entrepreneurs are given tax exemptions for work done on 1iehalf of the State.
Moreover, some bidding for small structures (MLCs) or sites with difficult
access did not attract any bids from the private sector. Lastly, as the PIU
added two dwellings with three bedrooms to all MLCs and a three-bedroom house
to all SCs, which were not built by private firms, a comparison was difficult.
The preparation mission for the Fourth Education Project, after having
scrupulously examined the cost and calculation bases that had been used in
their appraisal, recommended that all small and medium rural structures (MLCs
and JSSs) continue to be built on force account, an approach whose advantages
had been demonstrated in terms of cost, quality and timetable, whereas the
larger and more complex constructions, including the rehabilitation of the
major urban secondary schools, would be contracted to the private sector,
under the close and constant monitoring of the PIU.
11.         Furnishings were, in ,eneral, of average quality.  However, some
problems were experienced during their procurement: three firms did not comply
with the contracts signed and wanted to deliver low-quality furniture causing
delays in delivery time. To avoid other problems of this type, the Government
dezided that under the third project, local artisans would be contracted to
manufacture simple but sturdy furnishings from prototypes designed by the PIU.
As far as the MLC equipment purchased under the Credit Is concerned, it was
covered by two rounds of bidding, the first international for 97 percent of
the total and the balance being purchased locally. The equipment, well
adapted to needs at the time of appraisal, was not all delivered to the MLCs
following the elimination of the practical work component of the primary
education program.
12.         Results relating to technical assistance and fellowships.  The
projei.. received significant amounts of technical assistance. General PIU
management received the services of an accountant, a procurement specialist,
three archi1ects, an engineer and a head of the vehicle fleet. Belgium
financed the services of an architect. This situation was inherited from the
second project, still incomplete at the time implementation of the third
project started, and the assistance was also used for the implementation of
the ifDB project. The various IDA supervision missions had all insisted on
the urgent need to train local counterparts and technicians, and the situation
in this regard was significantly changed with the departure of the accountant,
the head of the vehicle fleet, and an architect, who were re'laced by local
technicians. Two Burundese architects were also recruited.
13.         In order to ensure that the project's effects would be
sustainable, technicians assisted and trained local counterparts in initial



-6-
and in-service teacher training and in the preparation of TTI curricula (two
UNESCO experts for a total of 3.8 staff years), preparation of an adult
literacy program for the Ministry of Social Affairs (MSA) (a UNESCO expert for
1.5 years), training in printing techniques (a UNESCO expert for 5.5 years),
and the continued services of a public works engineer begun with financing
under the second project and continued for two years under Education III. The
services of these specialists were provided in accordance with projections,
were deemed to be of good quality and greatly boosted the qualitative results.
14.         Originally, the project fellowship program provided for the
equivalent of three years of training abroad for four RPP officials, at the
rate of nine months each. In actuality, nearly seven years were used, 2.85
years for the RPP, 1 year for the Kamenge FTS and 2 years for the BER. The
project also financed internships for two teachers from the ETP (Public Works
School) (five months each); nine specialists from the BER who traveled to
Africa and Europe to study education reforms, preparation of curricula and
teacher training; three officials from the Ministry of Social Affairs who went
to Benin, Ethiopia and Mali for advanced training in adult education and
literacy action. Lastly, with the assistance of the International Institute
for Education Planning (IIPE), the education planning office organized four
seminars on regional planning, collection of statistics, school mapping and
use of computer aids. The training, which kept to the schedule and the
conditions set in advance, largely helped improve the technical skills of the
beneficiaries.
15.         Quantitative results.  Quantitatively, the project results
exceeded, sometimes substantially, the objectives of the Credit Agreement.
Instead of 24, 29 MLCs were built and through double-shifting (one group of
students in the morning and another in the afternoon, with a single teacher
for both), 13,920 students could be accommodated instead of the 11,570
envisaged. The new TTIs offar two cycles, i.e., four years of the first cycle
of secondary educaw.ion (JSS) (grades 7 to 10) and two years of primary teacher
training (grades 11 and 12). Despite an increase in the number of boarders
that could be accommodated at the two TTIs, the number of trainee teachers was
lower than expected, whereas that for first-cycle students was higher (about
850 instead of 640). However, in December 1988 the Cibitoke and Mukenke TTIs
had only 115 trainee teachers instead of the 320 r3timated at appraisal. The
four additional JSSs built under the project can accommodate 1,450 students,
i.e., 10 percent more than the number of places expected at appraisal.
Following an amendment to the Credit Agreement, 50 percent of those students
can be boarded. Under the fourth project, the increase in the number of
boarder students in rural areas should be offset by a phasing out of boarders
in Bujumbura and Gitega. The quantitative results for the social centers
were, however, more disappointing, as only an average of 52 people attended
each center instead of the 120 projected. This is a qualitative problem that
will be discussed below. Lastly, the production of textbooks and teacher
guides met and exceeded the targets. Between January 1984 and October 1987,
the RPP printed 61 different book titles represent'ng some 1,350,000 books.
16.         Qualitative results.  The most readily observable qualitative
results involve the training of local officials at the PIU, planning office,
BER and RPP. Nearly 80 percent of those trained, either on the job by



- 7 -
technical assistants or via fellowships abroad or local seminars, hold high-
level administrative, technical or teaching positions. However, for the other
components, as is always the case of an education project, the qualitative
impact is measurable only over the long run, when the students have completed
the primary or secondary cycle using improved educational materials or
studying untar better-trained teachers. Thus, for the MLCs it is difficult to
predict the long-term qualitative impact of the double-shift system and the
elimination of the practical subjects program. For the time being, the
premises and equipment for practical subjects are underutilized, and some
workshops should be converted immediately into classrooms in order to reduce
congestion and thereby mitigate the negative effects of two shifts, wherever
possible and compatible with budget projections. Over the longer term, the
new workshops could be converted into classrooms for postprimary courses.
This could help reduce the number of years of study in the JSSs and pare their
enrollments, which are very high. It was also proposed that the rooms be
allocated for social programs such as kindergartens, health care centers and
additional training for artisans. No decision has been made yet, but the
Government is evidently leaning tow_.rds the establishment of several pilot
MLCs that could benefit from appropriate equipment and materials, and whose
qualitative effects could be assessed later.
17.         The first teachers trained ir the project TTIs are not yet
exercising their professions, but their curriculum, prepared by two UNESCO
specialists financed by the project &nd Belgian and French civil servants, is
satisfactory. However, major changes are likely to occur in the near future.
In the recent past, three streams -- general high school, technical high
school and TTI -- were offered to the students leaving the JSS. For social
and financial reasons -- low salaries, difficult job constraints, obligaticn
to accept a job in remote rural areas -- students were not enthusiast to
become teachers and TTI were functioning at half capacity. In responding to
this problem, the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education decided to
convert some TTIs into higher-level teacher training schools (lycees
pedagogiques), thereby introducing a second secondary cycle. The graduates of
these high schools must teach for two years at the primary level and then, if
they so desire, can go on to de university-level studies. Although this
approach seems to attract more students to the TTIs, it may result in more
theoretical training programs an" siphnn the majority of the primary education
teachers away from primary schools, part of them being admitted at university
and others,Vfrustrated, resigning and leaving the profession. A solution to
this problem on how to attract more students to TTIs is an important point in
the continuing dialogue between Government, IDA and other major bilateral
donors (Belgium, France). Obviously the solution is not to hamper students to
go to university, but, on the contrary, to create favorable conditions for the
primary school teachers -- competitive salaiies, housing, school equipment and
career development plans.
18.         The quality of JSS education could be acceptable if the boarder
problem does not undermine the conditions under which it is dispensed. In
effect, in rural areas, whereas existing facilities can house only 50% of the
JSSs'students, all of them are, in fact, boarders. As a result, the libraries
and some classrooms are used as dormitories, and these are overcrowded. The
ongoing dialogue between the Government and IDA is stressing the need to



-8 -
reduce the costs of secondary education by restricting boarding only to those
students living in remote rural areas. The others would have to be selected
on the basis of a regional competitive examination for a JSS near their home.
In the meantime, to make up for the cost due to the increase in the number of
boarding places in rural areas, urban boarding will have to be phased out.
The Government is already taking some important measures in that direction.
19.         The 20 social centers (SCs) have two objectives:  to raise the
cultural level of young people through literacy action and to give them a
trade by teaching them farming and stock raising, health and cooperative
management, and giving instruction in civics and patriotism. The Government
hopes this will keep them from moving out of the rural areas. The training,
which lasts three years and is held three mornings each week, is provided by
teachers and outreach workers. The training is very theoretical, probably too
much so to attract a large number of students, and consequently the facilities
and teachers are generally underutilized.
G.    Project Sustainability
20.         The most lasting positive effect of the project is the development
of local capacity for carrying out major administrative, technical and
teachir- tasks. Whether involving administrators and/or architects at the
PIU, sp.vialists in curriculum development at the BER, planners, education
statisticians or technicians at the RPP, the training achieved under the
project will mean that in the future technical assistance will be needed for
only very specific requirements. For primary and secondary education, and to
a lesser extent socio-educative training, the new schools will unquestionably
provide access to education and training for growing numbers of children and
adolescents in areas where such opportunities were previously limited. Also,
because of the qualitative improvements that will certainly ensue from the
production and dissemination of teaching aids in greater number and of better
quality, anA more teachers, who are better trained and recruited on the basis
of appropriate planning and school maps, the effects of the project should be
sustainable and, if the Government can allocate the necessary financing,
should continue to grow. The only foreseeable risk for this part of the
project is associated with the budgetary aspects. Meeting operating expenses,
including expenditures for boarders, requires that the Government adopt urgent
measures regarding the control of unit costs and the distribution of the
education budget. Likewise, decisions concerning boarding and the recruitment
of future teachers, who will have a major impact on operating costs, must be
taken without delay. The preparation and implementation monitoring of these
measures will be under the responsibility of the Education Planning Unit which
prepared, under the second education project, a school map and a first
education development plan. However, the EPU was not sufficiently equipped to
face the cost and financing problems of the education system. The Fourth
Education Project is therefore stressing sectoral adjustment measures, in
response to a situation that could quickly become critical. The EPU will be
strengthened to handle efficiently this situation.



-9-
H.    IDA's Performance
21.         IDA should be credited with several points.  First, the project
was identified, prepared and negotiated before the completion of the second
education project, showing that IDA staff involved was aware that the needs
were real and that the status of activities under the second project could
serve as a reference for the third. Additionally, the project benefited from
the fact that a large proportion of its supervision missions included an
architect and an educator. This made it possible to continue a dialogue that,
although it did not lead to a resolution of all problems, at least enabled
them to be raised and clearly identified, so that they can be taken into
account in the formulation of sectoral adjustment measures, which are the
cornerstone of the Fourth Education Project. Lastly, IDA demonstrated great
flexibility in amending the project and financing elements not envisaged at
appraisal, but which were subsequently shown to be extremely beneficial (study
trips, organization of seminars, reorganization and expansion of the RPP and
the BER, technical assistance to the ETS).
22.         However, three important aspects were not sufficiently taken into
account by IDA. First, IDA should have taken a firmer position regarding the
MLC workshops and, on the basis of what occurred during the second education
project it has been proved that practical works in primary schools were non-
efficient, should have refused to finance facilities and equipment for
practical works. Instead IDA should have agreed on construction of more rural
primary schools. Second, IDA should have taken a less ambiguous position on
the boarding problem. Linking this problem to the education financing global
problem, IDA staff should have made it clear that boarding facilities and
functi-oning expenses would be neceseary for most of rural students and that,
to finance them, phasing out boarding expenses in rural areas were almost
mandatory. Third, regarding the management of the project (PIU), IDA should
have proposed a plan to decrease the number of expatriate specialists and to
train local counterparts. All those three sections are now under
implementation as part cf the fourth education project. In the future, IDA
will have to ensure that its contribution to education development in Burundi
stresses the structural and qualitative problems as much as, if not more than,
the quantitative aspects.
I.    Borro*er's Performance
23.         This report has heavily stressed the quality of project
management. In addition, the Government was at all times able to use project
results optimally, particularly by maintaining the officials in the positions
for which they had been trained. Another positive aspect to the borrower's
credit was its willingness to discuss the issues and its constant
availability, either during exchanges of correspondence or missions. The
quality of the dialogue led to greater awareness of the close linkages between
quantitative and qualitative improvement in the system and its financial
impact. During the course of project implementation and thereafter, the
Government adopted, and is currently implementing, several drastic measures
which demonstrate its willingness to link quantitative and qualitative
improvements in the system, to their financial impact. This is a major step



- 10 -
forward performed by the Burundese officials and technicians as action' now
under consideration and, for some of them, under implementation, concern
student boarding, preparation of teacher training and teacher employment
policies adopted to the socio-political situation, countrywide selection of
JSS students, and preparation of a new policy for young and adult training in
order to use the SC more efficiently.
J.    Prolect Relationship
24.         Dialogue between the Government and IDA was constant, frank and
direct, and has continued as part of preparation for the fourth project.
Relationships with other organ .,zations, whether bilateral or multilateral,
were excellent, with one exception. Co-financing and/or parallel financing
was discussed and established with the AfDB, UNICEF, Belgium and UNDP/UNESCO.
Contacts with France, which play an important role in the training of primary
school teachers and in reforms, were possible only among technicians, enabling
the additional activities to be carried out. Lastly, during the project, in
close conjunction with the UNDP, the Government organized a round table on
education issues, which enabled all countries and organizations represented to
plan for future activities. The conclusions of the round table were taken
into account in the preparation and identification of the Fourth Education
Project.
K.    Consulting Services
25.         The private firms to which the construction contracts were awarded
performed satisfactorily, and because of the quality of the works and the fact
that they kept to schedule, it was decided to use the private sector for the
rehabilitation of large secondary schools under the fourth project. However,
as the furnishing contractors did not perform satisfactorily, precautions must
be taken in that regard for any future undertakings. The technical assistants
recruited through the PIU for project management, construction, the RPP and
the consultants for the BER, the Education Planning Unit (EPU) and the social
affairs department ail performed satisfactorily.
L.    Proiect Documentation and Data
26.         The project generated on the customary documentation:  Credit
Agreement, Appraisal Report and President's Report. These documents had been
preceded by a November 1981 memorandum on the education sector, which gave a
general analysis of the sector and made some global recommendations for its
development. Project documentation also included a comprehensive working
paper on project architectural aspects, including costs per square meter for
each school. Unfortunately, no working paper was prepared for the educational
aspects of the project, which would have been extremely useful, primarily for
the MLC and TTI programs. This omission has been overcome for the fourth
project.



- 11 -
27.         The information needed for the preparation of the PCR was
available either from the PIU or the files of the various offices of the
Ministry and IDA. The supervision reports were clear and complete and
included numerous annexes and technical documents. In addition, the semi-
annual PIU reports, which were submitted regularly and were well documented,
provided excellent reference points throughout the implementation of the
project.



- 12 -
PART II
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
MINISTRY OF PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit No. 1358-BU
1.    Introduction
2.    Objectives
3.    Description
4.   Amendments
5.    Project            (a)   Project management
implementation:   (b)   Building design and construction
(c)   Equipment
(d)   Furnishings
(e)   Procurement
(f)   Technical assistance
(g)   Logistical support to the Ministry of National
Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs
(h)   Internships, study trips, seminars
6.    Financial tables: -      Breakdown of project amounts at appraisal
-     Breakdown of project amounts:  April 1986
..    reallocation
-     Exchange rate fluctuations
-     Actual disbursements
-     Project financing by expenditure category
-     Comparison of actual project costs
-     Utilization of surplus
-     Expenditures under the Third Education Project
-     Comparison of areas, cost and enrollments
7     Results
8.    Conclusion



- 13 -
1.    Introduction
The Project Implementation unit (PIU) was established by Decree
No. 100/258 of November 5, 1977 to increase student capacity at the schools
and upgrade the quality of teaching.
Although the Unit experienced several problems at the start of the
First Education Project, its implementation of the two subsequent projects was
extremely successful.
This evaluation report seeks to determine to what extent the Third
Education Project has helpcd the Government to raise enrollments in primary
and secondary educatlion, and to continue the educational reforms begun in
1973. The report will also examine the manner in which the project helped
improve education and training opportunities for young illiterates.
2.    Obiectives
The objective of the Credit Agreement for the Third Education
Project, for an amount of SDR 17,712,000 signed June 9, 1983 with the
International Development Association, was to:
-     increase access to primary education through the establishment of
new multipurpose learning centers;
-     develop and upgrade teacher training so that the reforms could be
implemented more efficiently;
-     develop first-cycle secondary education with a view to better
distribution of schools throughout the national territory and
phase out boarding;
-     develop nonformal education and training in the rural areas with a
view to reducing illiteracy and provide educational follow-up;
improve the production and distribution of textbooks;
upgrade personnel;
provide technical and logistical assistance to the support
services of the Ministry of National Education.
3.    Description
The project called for:
(a)   The construction, furnishing and equipping of:
-     24 multipurpose learning centers;



- 14 -
-     two primary teacher training institutes, including two
junior secondary schools;
-     four separate junior secondary schools;
-     20 social centers.
(b)   Purchase of paper, veh4cles and equipment for the Academic Print
Shop (Regie des Productions P;dagogiques - RPP).
(c)   Technical assistance to the PIU, BER, RPP, Ministry of Social
Affairs and the Planning for carrying out the countrywide school
mapping exercise.
4.    Amendments
The first amendment was made on October 18, 1985 following a
letter from the Minister of Education requesting the establishment of
additional places for boarders in the junior secondary schools and TTIs under
the Third Project.
The second amendment involved the allocation of the balance at
closing from the 1986 budget exercise, which coincided with the completion of
the initial program. The surplus of FBu 314,098,718 made possible by the
PIU's efficiency was used for the construction of 5 additional MLCs, the
renovation and expansion of some 10 secondary schools, expansion of the RPP
and the BER, financing of technical assistance for the RPP and the PIU,
support to the Ministry of Social Affairs for the printing of literacy
brochures, financing of a consultant mission, payment of fellowships and study
trips for the Kamenge ETS, Gitega ETP, the BER and the Ministry of Social
Affairs.
5.    Proiect implementation
GenerAl
Credit Agreement No. 1358-BU for the Third IDA assisted Project
was signed on June 9, 1983. Credit effectiveness was to take place 90 days
later, i.e., September 9, 1983.
Effectiveness procedures and conditions, in particular the release
of the first tranche of FBu 31,500,000 representing the financial
participation of the Government in the project, were delayed and the Credit
Agreement did not become effective until November 16, 1983. The project, in
its original form, was completed ahead of schedule on December 31, 1986.



- 15 -
(a)   Proiect manaaement
The Project Implementation Unit established in 1976 was
responsible, as under the first two projects, for coordination between the
various ministries and agencies, liaison with IDA and the execution on force
account of most project construction works. The PIU now employs 14 higher-
level staff, of which 8 are Burundi, and 65 skilled workers. Temporary
personnel consist of 1,600 workers of various categories. During the project,
Burundi nationals took on increasing responsibilities. The heads of finance,
personnel, and vehicle fleet are Burundi, as are all deputy heads of the four
main services: technical, procurement. accounting and human resources. As
part of its bilateral assistance program, Belgium continues to finance the
services of an architect.
(b)   Building design and construction
Design
Four junior secondary schools and two TTIs
-      ,General design
The original plan was to build the junior secondary schools (JSSs)
and TTIs to house a bare minimam of boarders (80 boarders/320 students)--160
boarders/320 students or 160 boarders/480 students, as appropriate, with the
area of the buildings in question to be studied as a result: kitchen,
cafeteria, bathrooms, dorms (which could later be converted into classrooms).
However, almost all the sites selected for the new schools were very far from
the urban centers, which made boarding necessary.
As soon as the schools opened, capacity was oversaturated, which
led to inappropriate use of the premises and facilities:
-     classrooms or science labs used as dorms;
-     dorms for 64 students occupied by more than 100 (two students per
bed or beds crammed together), with the ensuing problems of
hygiene and security;
-     undersized septic and sanitary tanks;
-     insufficient water reserves or distribution networks;
-     undersized cafeteria and kitchen (plus pantry);
-     etc.
These "arrangements" became unbearable and pressures grew with
each new academic year. Expansions were considered, but appropriate solutionia
were not always possible (impossibility of expanding the kitchen and pantries,
water system remaining inadequate, etc.).



- 16 -
The design of the various school buildings was simple and
occasionally even overly so for the schools studied and built In
the first phase (Cibitoke TTI, Bukirasazi JSS, Bubanza JSS), and
was based on a single module and standardized construction
materials, regardless of the future use of the buildings (window
and door frames, etc.). The result was a certain degree of
monotony and, beyond the signs posted above the doors, it is
virtually impossible for an uninformed visitor to know what the
building is used for. While still respecting considerations of
simplicity, another approach was adopted for the phase-two schools
(Mukenke TTI, Nyankanda JSS and Murore JSS).
In accordance with the base construction options adopted, certain
elements were not deemed necessary (e.g., ceilings and mosquito
netting).  Actual v'e of the buildings showed the error of such
judgements (impossibility of holding classes when it is raining
and students bothered by insects during clas3 or in the dorms),
and additional works had to be done while the premises were
occupied. For eAample, modifications had to be made to the
electrical installatiors.
The master plans could have been covered by more comprehensive
research, at least regarding the first phase (Cibitoke TTI and
Bukirasazi JSS). The same is true for walkways between the
buildings, which were virtually nonexistent.
The base options overlooked the "lodging" aspect to the benefit of
the school proper, the main objective of the investment. Guidelines thus
limited expenditures in that respect to the strict minimum:
-     minimal surface area;
-     very low-cost masonry (sometimes mud brick);
-     rudimentary door and window frames;
-     no ceilings;
no mosquito netting;
outdoor pit latrines;
no furniture for the bedrooms.
These arrangemebts were harshly criticized by the teaching staff
and resulted in additional and time-consuming works.



17 -
24 MLCs and 20 Social Centers
General Desian
The base options for the Jesign of the buildings were as followss
-     Average price/m2 of + FBu 16,000
-     Window openings with grillwork, no glass
Note:       Because broken window glass was not replaced in the other schools.
-     No ceiling
-     Two 3-bedroom dwellings for the MLCs and one dwelling for the SCs,
of rudimentary construction initially (improved worksite shack).
These buildings were subsequently built with more care and of
durable materials.
Considerations
These low-cost construction options resulted in a sizeable
balance, at least for the 24 MLCs. However, the elimination of glass for the
window frames of the social center classrooms was highly criticized by the
users, and me-;ures had to be taken to remedy the situation.
The houses built for the MLC teachers and SC instructors were for
the most part in practice requisitioned by the commune goveriunents for their
personnel (administrator, policeman, agronomist, etc.), with the result that
the original intent was not fulfilled. It appears that the teachers refuse to
pay a modest rent for maintenance.
CONSTRUCTION
Four JSSs and TTIs
-     These six schools were built on force account by the PIU ahead of
schedule (with the exception of the Mukenke TTI). The budgetary
savings were used for the construction of additional buildings,
which could not have been done if the works had been awarded to
private firms.
-     The trial manufacture of industrial roofing tiles was carried out
for the Mukenke TTI with a view to covering all school buildings
( 6,000 m2). Unfortunately, although very valuable in itself on
a small scale and accompanied by all necessary tests, this
undertaking was done on too large a scale, with adverse
consequences; ultimately, the tiles will have to be replaced.



- 18 -
The biogas technique was introduced for the Cibitok. TTI,
Nyankanda JSS and Murore JSS, using digesters to replace the
conventional septic tanks. The gas produced by these facilities
is used in the kitchens, thereby generating savings in fuelwood.
24 MLCs and 20 SCe
-     Two MLCs (Magara and Mageyo) and three SCa (Kivyuka, Kinama and
Giheta) were built by private firms, as requested by IDA, with a
view to promoting domestic firms. The results were as follows:
-     Prohibitive cost by comparison with the works carried out on force
account by the PIU, e.g.:
-     Magara MLC:  (FBu] 20,681,650
-     MLC/PIU:   [FBu] 11,000,000 (including two dwellings)
-     Kivyuka social center:  [FBu] 18,644,825
-     SC/PIU:   [FBu] 9,000,000 (including one dwelling).
The comparison shows that costs were as much as double
(nevertheless without reflecting the overhead of the PIU).
It was decided to take the construction of the dwellings away from
the private firms, which would have increased the difference even
further.
-     The quality of the work done by the private firms is not better
than that of the construction overseen by PIU.
-     Time was lost in preparing the bidding documents, monitoring
progress reports and invoices, etc.
-     The other MLCs and SCs were built on force account by the PIU
using local resources to the extent possible, as regards both
.structural building materials and labor.
(c)   Equipment
The equipment for the 29 MLCs and 20 social centers was covered by
two rounds of bidding:
local bidding for equipment manufactured on a small scale:
charcoal-burning oven (Imbabura), locally manufactured machetes
(Umuhoro), aluminum pots and mortar (Isekuro), etc.;
-     international competitive bidding was used for tools and machinery
(sewing machines, etc.).



- 19 -
Following some reservations about the running of certain
nonacademic sections of the MLCs, the delivery of a large share of the
equipment was suspended and the articles are still stored in PIU warehouses.
The Ministry of Primary and Secondary Eduction is planning to centralize the
equipment in several model MLCs.
(d)   Furnishings
In general (2 TTIs, 4 JSSs, 24 MLCs and 20 SCs), furnishing was
procured through local competitive bidding.
The various contractors could not respond to expectations,
regarding either the minimal quality acceptable or delivery periods. As a
result, other possibilities are envisaged for the future, namely:
-     strengthening the potential for manufacture by the PIU workshops;
3     using local artisans located near the construction sites.
(e)   Procurement
Under the Third IDA Project, the PIU issued 13 calls for bids:
-     No. 1358/BU/5/83  - Purchase of vehicles
-     No. 1358/BU/6/83  - Supply of steel
-     No. 1358/BU/7/83  - Supply of self-supporting ribbed roofs and
crest tiles
-     No. 13581BU/8/83  - Supply of paper for the R?P
-     No. 13581BU/9/83  - Supply of 2,000 tons of .Lment
-     No. 1358iBU/10/83 - Construction by private fl ms of two MLCs
(Mageyo and Magara) and sevo. SCs (Giheta,
Kivyuka, Kinama, Mugara, Gitor.3o, Buraniro and
Bukeye).
The Bid Review Committee awarded construction:
-   to the Moka firm for the Giheta and
Kivyuka SCs;
-   to the CIC/Socarti/Socubu group for the
Mageyo and Magara MLCs, as well as the
Kinama SC;
-   to the PIU for the Mugara, Gitongo,
Buraniro and Bukeye SCs.



- 20 -
No. 1358/BU/1/84  - Supply of 2,000 tons of cement
No. 1358/BU/2/84  - Furnishings for two TTIs and four JSSs
No. 1358/BU/4/84  -Supply of fuel
No. 1358/BU/5/84  - Supply of 2,000 tons of cement
No. 1358/BU/6/84  - Furnishings for MLCs and SCs
No. 1358/BU/1/85  - Supply of 1,500 tons of cement
No. 1358/BU/1/86  - Equipment for the 20 SCs.
The procurement office (service commercial} was often
congratulated by the Chairman of the Bid Review Committee for the scrupulous
manner in which the specifications were prepared. Deliveries of construction
materials, equipment and furnishings were regular, despite transportation
problems owing to a shortage of vehicles during coffee harvests.
(f)   Technical assistance
Prolect Implementation Unit
The project financed the services of an accountant, a procurement
specialist, three architects, an engineer and a head of the vehicle fleet for
the PIU.
Belgium financed the services of an architect. The heads of
accounting and the vehicle fleet have been replaced by nationals.
-     Academic Print Shop
A UNESCO expert was responsible for the production of manuals and
teaching aids. He helped with the in-service training for a core of motivated
people.
The project financed an audit to study the RPP's rate of return.
It was beneficial in certain respects, but some conclusions due to the
briefness of the visit were surprising.
-     Ministry of Social Affairs
The project financed the senior expert from the "Women's Social
Workshops" project. A UNESCO expert in teaching aids and curricula adapted to
the training given at the social centers.   He also organized seminars on
literacy action and methodology.
*     T.N.:  Segment fragment in original.



- 21 -
Rural Education Office
Two UNESCO experts assisted with the reforms and training of D6
primary teachers with a view to responding better to the needs of the rew
primary eduction system. They developed the structure f the monthly and
quarterly teacher supervision activities (animations pedagogigues) that the
BER now oversees. They organized internships in general teaching techniques.
-     Kamenze Secondary Technical School
The Kamenge ETS was assisted by a specialist from July 1982 to
June 1986.
He carried out all responsibilities incumbent on the head of works
for the general mechanics section at the Kamenge ETS.
He also assisted the mechanics workshops at the Bubanza ETMM and
Gitega ETP (Public Works School) in ordering additional equipment, tools and
other supplies.
As head of the works for the mechanical manufacture workshop at
the Kamenge ETS, he was instrumental in starting up that section, and
continued to provide training efficiently for students for five years, while
finding appropriate solutions to the technical problems that arose throughout
the period.
In addition to coordinating the workshop activities, he gave
courses in milling and helped update curricul&. He instilled a spirit of
discipline among the students at the workshop and a desire for high quality
work.
His efforts were very beneficial for the Kamenge ETS and employers
often commented on the level of practical training attained by section
graduates.
Also regarding that section, the ETS lacks national counterparts
for the expatriate teachers, as their training in mechanical manufacturing was
not planned in time.
(gl  Logistical support to the Ministry of National Education and the
Ministry of Social Affairs
-     Academic Print Shop
At the outset, the Academic Print Shop (Regie des Productions
Pedagogiques - RPP) received substantial financing for equipment, fungibles
and delivery vehicles. The equipment included an offset GTO press, two
hydraulic presses that are improving the quality of binding, a vacuum packing
machine that protects the books as well as keeps them clean, in addition to
reducing labor, a photocomposition machine that improves composition and



- 22 -
provides rapid pagination, a photocopier, film drier, light table, hoist,
development table, grooving table and a high-speed photocopier.
The RPP received eight vehicles, including a car, a station wagon
and a 3-ton van for errands and distribution of the textbooks.
The paper and other supplies provided were used to produce 61
textbook titles.
-     Education Planning
The financing under the Third Education Project provided the
Planning Office with an all terrain vehicle to continue the school mapping
exercise. The Office acquired the furnishings and other supplies all the
assistant inspectors for the school mapping exercise. Lastly, the Office
purchased three microcomputers to improve the management of the education
system.
-     Nonformal Education and Education Offices
For monitoring the MLCs, the Nonformal Education Department
purchased two vehicles. The BEPES (Secondary Education Bureau) and the BEET
(Technical Education Bureau) each purchased a vehicle for supervision
purposes.
Ministry of Social Affairs
For supervision of the social centers, the project financed five
vehicles: one 4-wheel drive vehicle, one 2-ton light truck, one 3-ton truck
and two double-cabin trucks.
(h)   Internships - study trips - seminars
-     Gitega ETP (Public Works School)
The Technical Director of the Public Works School did an
internship in Quebec, Canada at the College Ahuntsic. The internship focused
on two aspects, namely:
-     the administration and management of a technical school,
formulation of training programs, preparation of teaching aids and
organization of courses;
-     attendance at a continuous training course on planning,
organization, direction and control organized by the association
of engineers in Quebec. The course was given by the Institute of
the Training and Consulting Center.
-     Kamenae Secondary Technical School



- 23 -
Three metallurgical engineers from the Kamenge Secondary Technical
School (ETS) did an intensive six-month internship organized by a French
agency, CODIFOR. The internship prepared them to take over from the
CooR;ration teachers to teach professional skills in mechanical manufacturing.
Unfortunately, one intorn refused to return to Burundi when the
training ended. He reportedly left France for another European country. The
two trainees who returned went back to the Kamenge ETS, where they give
classes in the mechanical section.
The quality of their instruction has improved since their
practical internship. It is hoped to be able to keep them for some time to
come at the Kamenge ETS, despite the requests they are receiving from private
and parastatal entities that offer better working conditions and higher
salaries.
-     Study Trips by the Rural Education Office
Nine higher-level staff of the Rural Education Office (Bureau
d'Education Rurale - BER) made study trips to various African countries.
(a)   Benin.  Two staff made a three-week study trip to Benin.  The trip
was sponsored by the National Institute for Training and Research
in Education (Institut National de Formation et de Recherche en
Education - INFRE).
The trip was part of the exchanges of experience in basic
education to determine what lessons could be learned from primary
education reforms in Benin--which are very similar to those
undertaken in 1973 in Burundi--in order to enhance the performance
of the participants within the BER.
(b)   Congo.  A mission consisting of two staff visited Congo from March
18 to April 7, 1987 to study teaching innovations and training
strategy for teaching personnel. Their activities consisted
primarily of discussions and exchanges of view with the basic
education officials using firsthand classroom visits.
The results of the mission were positive and enabled the Burundi
officials to learn about the Congo's education system, which is very advanced
as regards basic education. The Congolese also benefited from Burundi
experience in the continuing training of primary teachers.
(c)   Mali.  BER Deputy Director visited Bamako to study teacher
training strategies and techniques.
The mission was highly informative, especially as regards basic
education and ruralization, which have affected all schools and a large
portion of teaching time is devoted to them. Beyond information on training
strategies and techniques, the mission learned about literacy techniques, the
research for which is very advanced.



- 24 -
This trip was also helpful to Malian otficials to the extent that
ongoing experiments in Mali were also conducted in Burundi, primarily for
ruralization.
(d)   Zaire.  Two BER officials also made a study trip to Kisangani, to
the African Office for Education Sciences (Bureau Africain des
Sciences de l'Education - BASE), which develops education research
in member countries of the OAU; the mission to that entity was
very relevant for designers of other teaching specialisms.
Experiences were exchanged regarding teaching innovations for
formal basic education and organizing continuing teacher training.
The mission worked essentially at the Nelson Mandela Primary
School and its observations indicate that much still needs to be done in
Burundi in the area of teaching methods.
(e)   Two officials, one from the Kirundi workshop and another from the
evaluation workshop, did internships in two different countries,
France and Belgium, in 1988. Both were pleased with the training
received and are working actively on design, supervision and
evaluation.
-     Study trips for the Ministry of Social Affairs
(a)   Ethiopia.  Two officials from the Ministry of Social Affairs made
a fact-finding trip to Ethiopia to study adult education and
literacy action, in which Ethiopia has extensive experience, with
spectacular results.
The trip was highly enriching to the extent that the Burundi
officials could learn from the experience in Ethiopia, where literacy has
risen from 7 percent in 1979 to 62.7 percent. at present. The limited means of
action (outdoor literacy classes, under a tree, in barracks, etc.), as well as
the strong grass-roots mobilization for literacy action, were an inspiration
to the Burundi officials.
.The Cabinet Director of the Ministry of Social Affairs made a
fact-finding trip to Mali to study methods and research there.
He observed that the structure of literacy action in Mali is
substantially different from that in Burundi, owing to its flexibility and
simplicity regarding infrastructure and trainers.
Mali's experience in village and regional specialization in
training in the traditional trades attracted the particular attention of the
Director and was a good point of reference, if not a source of inspiration.
(b)   Benin.  The Director also made a trip to Benin, again with a view
to fact finding and exchange of experience. One distinguishing
feature of the Beninese literacy system is that the campaign is



- 25 -
organized systematically and on an annual basis, given the
priorities of the ministries and provinces.
The lesson drawn from this trip was the existence of a national
steering committee that does the behind-the-scenes work before the Ministry of
Literacy Action and Popular Culture can undertake implementaticoa.
-     Internship fellowships for the Academic Print Shop (RPP)
Seven printers received training in the following areas: print
shop administration and management, assembly, photoengraving, press operation,
maintenance (twice) and photocomposition.
The RPP regretted that the French Commission for UNESCO was very
late in assigning the trainees. The training received by the three trainees
was not even consistent with the wishes of the RPP, which also did not benefit
for long from the new skills of the person sent for photoengraving, as he
returned to settle in France.
-     Seminars orzanized by the Plarning Office
The Planning Office held a second intensive training course from
January 23 to February 2, 1984 on the methodology of school mapping. The
first had taken place in November 1982 for members of the Planning Office,
school district inspectors and their assistants responsible for school
mapping.
The second course had three objectives:
-     to review the work done in the 20 pilot communes in order to
identify the problems encountered by the district teams;
-     to teach the participants the necessary techniques for analyzing
intercommune disparities;
to teach the assistants the methods for projecting education
demand and supply.
The seminar was given by the International Planning Institute.
Immediately following the seminar, the work on school mapping was extended to
all communes in the country.
During the same year, in November 1984, a third seminar was
organized solely by the Planning Office for its school mapping agents. The
objective was to review progress in expanding the coverage of the school
mapping exercise.



- 26 -
A fourth seminar, held In November 1985 under the direction of
IIPE, was an Introduction to using the computer hardware that the Planning
Office had just acquired.



- 27 -
6. cass
Breakon of mowect wvwts at a=aisal
S: 1 - US$1.089655 - PM 98.06895
CAMM                      9C             US$E    m    SctU$                                 Fb
civil W=13                   2,300,000      2,500,000     225,000,000    275,316    30D,000   27,000,000
Casxtmtici mrtals/           6,700,000      7,300,000     657,000,0OO   1,560,101   1,7O0,O0   153,000,000
firrds~4/ew4ment
Tedmical assistarnce         2,100,000      2,300,000     207,000,000    206,487    225,000   2D,250,000
Fellazhips                      70,000         75,000       6,750,000         0        -            -
Project nmgm                  430,000        465,000      41,850,000   1,170,095   1,275,000   114,750,000
Special azEwt                  700,0C0        760,000      68,400,000       -          -            -
tUnal1cated                  2,200,000      2,400,000     216,000,000       -          -            -
Tctal                14,500,000     15,800,000   1,422,0O0,000   3,212,000  3,500,000  315,000,000
2
CAMMU                              S:R           UES$                       MP, I         I      ROM
civil wxcls                  2,575,316      2,800,000     252,000,000     12.95%      1.55%       14.51%
wst=xtia: nwrialsI           8,260,101      9,000,000     810,000,O0     37.82%      8.812       46.63%
fids-&t/eq*mf
Techdical assistance         2,306,487      2,525,000     227,250,000     11.92       1.17Z       14.082
F.lazshipe                      70,000         '5,000       6,750,000      0.392      0.00o        0.39S
Project                      1,600,000      1,740,000     156,600,00       2.41%      6.611        9.0=
Spec4al cc=zt                  700,000        760,000      68,400,000      3.94Z      0.00%        3.942
Tukc1at 1                    2,200,000      2,400,000     216,000,000     12.442      0.00        12.442
Tctal                17,712,000     19,300,000   1,737,000,000    81.871      18.132      100.00



- 28 -
B3redan of grmoct nmx.t   re llocat4cn 4/1986
SR 1 - Us$l.096s5 - T  98.06895
C=1
gEamm  ScFt   US$                        SR          tS$          E
Civil vcdr8                  4,250,000      4,631,034     416,793,083   1,000,000   1,089,655   98,068,950
CaNtrctiaon rtearials/       6,400,000      6,973,792     627,641,280   1,500,000   1,634,483   147,103,438
Technla.l assistance         2,100,000      2,288,276     205,944,795    480,000    523,034   47,073,096
Fellowships                    150,000        163,448      14,710,343       -          -            -
Pxojeot iRsoat                 700,000        762,759      68,648,265    232,000    252,828   22,754,516
Speclal eccout                 700,000        762,759      68,648,265       -          -            -
tUaloccted                     200,000        217,933      19,613,970       -          -            -
Total                14,500,000     15,800,000    1,422,000,000   3,212,000   3,500,000   315,000,000
cMR           US$             F%         Mk        rPM 
Civil wxids                  5,250,000      5,720,700     514,862,033     23.99%      5.652       29.64Z
Cuastzbusic  terials/        7,900,000      8,608,275     774,744,718     36.13%      8.47%       44.60Z
f ismishin/emuipment
Tedrdc al assistate          2,580,000      2,811,300     253,017,891     11.86%      2.71%       14.57%
Fellowshi                      150,000        163,448      14,710,343      0.85Z      0.00%        0.85%
Project omagant                932,000      1,015,586      91,402,781      3.95%      1.31Z        5.26Z
Special account                700,000        762,759      68,648,265      3.952      0.00%        3.952
tui1ixoacd                     200,000        217,933      19,613,970      1.13%      0.00%        1.132
Total                17,712,000     19,300,000   1,737,000,000    81.87%      18.13%      100.00%



- 29 -
Exchanze Rate Fluctuations
Currency unit:     Country; Burundi franc (FBu)
Currency unit:     Credit:   Special Drawing Rights (SDR)
Year of appraisal: 3/1983:   SDR 1 * US$1.089655 - FBu 98.0689 (US$1 - FBU 90)
$           FBu
Variation:  1983  :    4th quarter :       1 SDR :    1.03847 :  122,082 :
1984         1st quarter :    1 SDR :     1.05853 :   120,293 :
2nd quarter :     1 SDR :    1.05853 :   121 723 s
3rd quarter :     1 SDR :     1.03715 :   121,675 :
4th quarter s     1 SDR :     1.00885 :   122,559 :
1985  :     lt quarter :      1 SDR :    0.96839 :   126,624 :
s  s  2nd quarter s     1 SDR :    0.99506 :   121,259 :
3rd quarter :     1 SDIR :    1.01595 :   122,452 :
4th quarter s     1 SDR :     1.08925 :   122,532 :
1986         1st quarter s   1 SDR :      1.14122 :   120,432 s
2nd quarter s     1 SDR :     1.16803 s   121,931 s
3rd quarter s     1 SDR :     1.20679 t   142,666 :
4th quarter s     1 SDR :    1.21031 :   148,681 :
s 1987          1st quarter s   1 SDR :      1.26266 :   154,991 :
2nd quarter s     1 SDR :    1.30528 :   159,937 s
:  :  3rd quarter :     1 SDR :    1.26136 :  160,781 :
4th quarter :     1 SDR :     1.27607 :  160,957 :
1988         1st quarter :    1 SDR :     1.35478 :   176,391 s
2nd quarter :     1 SDR :     1.38051 :   177,021 s
3rd quarter :     1 SDR :     1.30239 :  200,484 :
Average during the project                 1 SDR       1.157        141,274
Average for year of major utilization
1983-1986                                1 SDR       1.077       127,000
Year of completion (12/1988)               1 SDR       1.346        184,632



Absal Dls         (i F   )
I           IN
1983                 1984                  1985                  1986                      1987
Fran Credit 1358-i                       0 :         6676,190,116 :         504,537,423:          414,505,00 :         154,730,899 :
FanF Bmndi                       31,500,O00 :          67,521,987 :          99,999,793 :         180,000,C00 :          40,00D,OOD :
l14UL                     31,500000 :         743,712.103 :         604,537.216 :         594,505.20D :         194730.899 :
1988                ICL                     SIR               SR I =FEu                                 0
Fran Credit 1358-BU              89.977.911 :        1 839,941 549:          14,500DC000                 127:
Fr3n Bmunzdi                             0 :          419,021,780 :           3,212,C00:                 13:
1iJDL                     89.977.911 :       2.258.963.329 :          17.712.000 :                128



Pboiect FiTE ximn b! E;dtu irhe Catom7r
Dject intn SR
-as'
*  IYl  :BElElNDI:                  11DL   :IDA  :                        BLfaNI:         MMEN 
I.   CIVIL l              :   2,30D,O0 :          275,316 :       2,575,316 :      3,295,69 :        1,OOD,OOD :      4,295,%9:
IlllBUh1~i{DIS5/ECpC3JD   :   6,70D,OD :  1,560,101 :     8,26D,101 :       7,747,077 :       1,50,000 :       9,247,077 :
m.   IHEHU(L AEiSJNUC       :   2,100,000:          26,487:        2,306,487:        2,462,411:         480,000:        2,942,411:
IV.    8IDA                :      7,OOD:               0 0:          70,OOD:          U7,689:               0:           117,689 :
V.   1O= !1m              :     43D,OOD:         1,170,095:       1,600,095:         877,256:          232,000:        1,;09,256:
VI.  SE    LNJIN                 700,00:                0:          700,000:               0:               0D:               0:
VUi.    WIOaD               :   2,2DOD,00:               0:        2,2X0,X0:                0:               0:                0:
IL                   :  14,500,00D:        3,212,000:       17,712,000:      14,500,000:       3,212,000:       17,712,00:D



Initial E   s  As  cti1
*       * X  
Project In Th
: m   :         NBB I:            MML   :             IDA  :           KURLI:          MmhL  :
I.   C1IVL W              : 225,000,000:        27,00,0OD0:      252,O00,000:     418,537,211:      13D,45iuA:        548,992,221:
H.   UlE1GiD IMERMSI  : 657,000,000:           153,00O,O0D:      810,000,OO0:     983,878,728:      195,682,515:    1,178,061,24:
m.   IKH    xL ASSNE        :  07,OOD,OOD:        2D,25,aD:       227,250,000:      312,726,197 :      62,618,693:     375,286,3M :
IV.   MEU l                :   6,750,OO0:               0:         6,750,00D:       14,946W448:              0:         14,9(6,418:
V.    I  I HWB M           :  41,850,000:      114,750,OOD:      156,600,000:      111,411,471 :     3D,265,562:      141,677,034:
VI.   SL. Aat              :  68,40D0,00:                0:        68,400,000:              0:                0:               0:
VII.   QE CM)               : 216,OO0,00:                0:        216,000,O0:               0:                0:               0:
ImL                  :1,422t000,000:      315,.000,000:    19737,00,000:    1,841,500C,OO:     419,021,780:    2,258,963,32:



Cmrmof APaml P      02et  sts
SR I =     - s l.a61.CZ  S  = 9B.0685     rmW  rate 193/196s : 2RIt '          I 
A:               Ss  I:                   ACMI   LC3                  DIatE1   IN Z s
SR   :                :IoEIus               SR   :            l   : s s'M.*,:        T s         R  :
A. KC                                                                                                                -10.7i     -3.u1I
filt    :   3,264,594:    32D,155,300:   18.43Z:                       2,249,00D:     205,747,111 :   12.65%:    -10.75%;  -31.11:
B. OD t      n            :
bizrdxt'dr*/ecpirtmt   :   1,578,710 :    154,822,400 :    8.921:      2,251,0OD :    2{5,913,075 :   12.66% :    84.67Z:   42.58Z
C. m1                                                                                     35t6ud82: 1561 :            6./  3    20
fbsndshinrdDd~/tmrq   :   2,13,043 :      209,675,600s   12.072 :      2,776,000:     352,611,987:   15.61%:      6U.172:   2.84%:       w
D. Social Catur           :
bzddkp/srepleqprpment   :   2,143,945 :   210,254,400 :   12.UC :      1,871,0O0 :    237,731,863:   10.52Z :     13.072 :  -1273Z :
Sbtotal A - D        :   9.1Z.291 :    894.907700 :   51.5Z2 :        9,147,OO :   1,162.004,031 :   51.44% :    29.852 :    0.242 :
13. ERs Wrg/
wvdMflds/TA flaci  i  :   1,788,018 :     175,30,000 t   10.09C :      1,807,000 :    229,542,80D:   10.162 :     30.91! :    1.06Z :
F. flFAdstrmtf            :
E4dpnt: P1lamx      :      90,752 :      8,900,000 :    0.51! :        95,000 :      12,082,812 :    0.53Z :    354762 :    4.68& :
&Ez1p.jNbnLeFwet:FIPU :   1,20,154 :    117,894,000 :    6.791 :     3,450,000 :    441,105,509 s   19.53:    274.15 :  186.9&Z :
Technlcal assist.: FIU :   1.133,385 :  111.150.000 :    6.4aG :     1.42D.00D :    180.698.668 s    8.0(1.:    62.57Zs   25.29S :
Satk.d    F       :   2,426,292 :     237,944,000D   13.70  :      4,965,000 :    633,886,9M :   28.06Zs    166.4:   104.631 :
F - Qatfirgs          s   4,372,40 :      428,799,300   24.69Zs             -  s             -  s              -        s       -s
ITI. aRW. HOWr            s   17,712,00D :   1,737,,00OO: t  1D00.0  :    15,919,000 s   2,5,433, :    89.66         16.61S:  -10.m:



- .34 -
Utilization of Surplus - 10/1986
Component               Detail            Amount Allocated :
RPP/BER               - Construction        :  30,000,000 s
- Print shop equipment
(massicot)               6,000,000 s
- Training                 8,485,500 :
- Missions            :    2,452,950 :
- Audit                    1,500,000 s
48,438,450
MINISTRY OF           - Brochures           :    4,000,235 s
SOCIAL AFFAIRS     - Consulting services s    3,105,000 s
- Travel                   1,003,950 :
8,109,185
PLANNING              - Equipment           :      500,000 s
s       500,000
HEAD OF WORKS         - ETS                 s   6,000,000 s
- Gitega                   1,000,489 s
3     7,000,489
11 LIBRARIES         - ETS                       3,105,210 :
- Gitega                   3,105,210 :
- Bubanza             s    3,105,210 t
-a s 9,315,630
REHABILITATION        1. Ngozi JSS          s   13,184,542 t
2. Gitega ATH        s   16,000,000 s
3. Gitega JSS        s    6,315,458 2
4. Gitega ENF        s   21,000,000 s
5. Bujumbura ETS     s    7,000,000 s
6. Rubanga ATH       s   9,000,000 s
7. Gisenyl JSS       s   4,000,000 t
8. Muyebe JSS        s    1,800,000 s
9. BEPES             s    3,000,000 s
10. MIN/ROHERO        s    7,000,000 s
11. Schools Division  s  38,Q08,215 :
. s 126,308,215
EXPANSION-JSS/TTI     - Boarders            3   25,875,000 t
- Libraries           s    8,280,000 s
s              s    34,155,000
MLC EXPANSION         - 5 Additional MLCs   S   61,210,000 s
s s 61,210,000
MAINTENANCE           - Vehicles            s   8,000,000 s
s              s     8,000,000
EXTENSION OF TA       - Procurement         s   17,000,000 s
- Head of vehicle     s
fleet             s    6,000,000 a
- Preparation         3   5,175,000 s
Fourth Project    s               s
s              s    28,175,000
s                3
s          s~~~ 331,211,969



- 35 -
ExRcaditures under the Third Education Prolect
I.  TTI                  1. Cibitoke              170,940,339
2. Mukenke               181,671,643
352,611,982
II.  JSS                  1. Murore                 82,323,269
2. Nyankanda              74,936,854
3. Bubanzs                56,250,966
4. Bukirasazi             72,401,986
285,913,075
III.  MLC                  1. Magara                 21,858,495
2. Maceyo                 22,653,605
3. Rutovu                 10,780,768
4. Jimbi                  14,405,481
5. Butare                 10,174,444
6. Shanga                 14,664,143
7. Gitaba                  8,864,417
8. Gasave                  9,853,306
9. Santunda               14,950,356
10. Muramba                10,933,645
11. Nyamisagara            10,889,419
12. Gitanga                 9,511,593
13. Kibongera              12,850,078
14. Mubuga                 13,128,442
15. Ruhinga                11,747,391
16. Cukiro                 12,613,818
17. Gikomero                9,508,424
18. Ruhata                 10,132,159
19. Gatwe                  11,217,313
20. Rugwiza                13,467,303
21. Nyabitsinda            10,537,307
22. Nyamigina               9,865,067
23. Nyamabuye              11,40,137
24. Kanyankuru             11,556,047
25. Nkonyovu               10,701,205
26. Nyamuzi                10,053,026
27. Burasa                 11,152,343
28. Gahemba                11,676,968
340,886,700



- 36 -
IV.  Social Conters      1. Buhinyuza              12,718,950
2. GasorWe                 9,552,351
3. Muyange                11,469,517
4. Muhanga                10,292,396
5. Marangara               8,661,977
6. Kinyinya               10,601,865
7. Gisuru                 12,112,806
8. Kinama                 17,474,976
9. Kayogoro               10,907,659
10. Bukeye                 12,485,929
11. Kirundo                11,431,618
12. Rugari                 12,262,375
13. Vumbi                   9,195,629
14. Kayanza                12,409,383
15. Giheta                 20,787,683
16. Gitongo                10,163,653
17. Kivyuka                20,859,910
18. Mugara                 11,536,036
19. Buraniro               12,807,150
237,731,863
Total projected                            1,217,143,620
V. Others               1. RPP/BER               108,853,667
2. MSA                     9,197,246
3. Planning               12,082,812
4. UNESCO                118,985,150
5. Civil Works  - ETS      6,720,081
- Gitega  1,283,127
6. 11 Libraries - ETS      3,197,210
- Gitega  2,977,022
- Bubanza 3,597,868
266,894,183
VI.  Rehabilitation      1. Ngozi JSS              13,184,542
2. Gitega ATH             16,232,945
3. GITEGA JSS              5,701,094
4. GITEGA ENF             21,885,122
5. Bujumbura ETS           6,736,506
6. Rubanga ATH             5,342,180
7. Others/Misc.           44,002,261
Total additional and/or supplementary expenditures              113,084,650
379.978.833
Grand Total                                1,597,122.453



- 37 -
Although Cibitoke comprises three different schools (TTI, MLC and SC),
its cost is lower than that for Mukenke, which has neither an MLC or an SC.
The Mukerke TTI uses an MLC from the first IDA project as its training primary
school. Cibitoke is located 65 km from Bujumbura via an asphalted road, which
facilitates access and transportation. Mukenke is located 220 km from
Bujumbura and a large portion of the road is packed earth, which makes access
difficult and the transportation of materials costly.
Some problems of civil works supervision arose that could be attributed
to lack of experience.
The Bubanza JSS also cost less than the other three because it is
located 40 km from Bujumbura. It also has fewer boarder places than the three
others, which were expanded.
As indicated earlier, the Magara and Mageyo MLCs and Kinama, Giheta and
Kivuyka SCs were awarded to private firms.



&do1                       StKident caity           Cnm  cred areas in nQ   d xt of mstrutim in Fi                     Cht aQ in Fhi
Apprafsa-1Acm                 Appaisl           Atua        _prLa               cm                          c
Tfl                        480             480          3.315          4.357      84.377.000    141.589.80          25000         32 .497
is;                        3So20           m            1,370          2,470      31,506,00D     61,076,835         25,000        24,727
KSIFlU                      240            252            58D            767      12,793,00O     10,460,62          16,500        13,638
KS/private emv              240            252            580            767      12,793,000     2D,844,670         16,50D        27,1
s111                       120             12D            455            558       7,118,OOD      9,021,30          16,500        16,167
X/private yIIeW            120             120            455            558       7,118,000     17,709,057         16,500        31,736
l
|   '               -   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 39 -
7.    Results
The construction carried out by the PIU on force account was as
successful as under the second project. A substantial surplus was reallocated
to a number of school rehabilitation and expansion works. Under the third
project, PIU officials paid particular attention to the training of national
counterparts.
Thanks to the support to the planning department and basic
education, the school map for basic education now covers all of the 79 former
communes in the country.
With better knowledge of the situation regarding school
infrastructure, supplies and equipment in each commune, and even each census
colline, the district teams, in conjunction with other local authorities, were
able to determine the number of schools needed to achieve the objective of
full enrollment of children 7 years old by 1987, and the sites where the new
schools, estimated to number 160, would be built.
Nevertheless, 160 new primary classrooms [sic: ?schools] would not
necessarily mean all children 7 to 12 years of age could be accommodated; the
new schools would have to offer complete cycles, which would require 2,430
additional classrooms.
On the basis of the previous period, it appears that the
infrastructure will be built. For example, annual construction has increased
as follows:
In 1985-1986: 398 classrooms
1986-1987: 476 classrooms
1987-1988: 573 classrooms
1988-1989: 684 classrooms
These construction efforts, together with the double-shifting and
group promotion strategies, have meant extremely rapid growth of enrollments
at this level of edudation.
In recent years, primary enrollments have increased as follows:
In 1984-1985:  343,027
1985-1986: 389,319
1986-1987: 446,009
1987-1988: 535,529
Enrollment rates rose from 47.7 percent in 1984-1985 to 69.8
percent in 1987-1988. Enrollment in first grade for 7-year old children was
84 percent. These figures bear witness to the great strides made toward
universal education by the 1992-1993 academic year.
Although we were pleased with the achievements so far, we cannot
overlook what remains to be done to complete the cycles opened in recent years
and which will begin to operate in the years ahead. Starting next year,



- 40 -
nearly 650 classrooms must be built if the target of universal enrollment Is
to be achieved on time. This would also mean substantial efforts in teacher
training.
For general secondary eduction, enrollments have been growing, but
the nonboarding policy has met with resistance outside the capital of
Bujumbura. Settlement in villages, which would have facilitated rural
electrification and evening study, is progressing slowly. The Barundi like to
remain in their compounds with the members of their families or clan.
As Bujumbura students do not always excel on the national
competitive examination, the secondary schools in the capital city are
attended by students from the interior of the country and who by necessity
need to board. Moreover, the schools have maintained a national and not
regional character.
Change in Enrollments
Academic year      Boys    Girls      Total     Boarders      Externs       Total
1983-1984        9,744    5,237    14,981        13,868         1,113      14,981
1984-1985        10,501    5,981    16,482       14,802         1,680      16,482
1985-1986        11,662    6,733    18,295       15,528         2,767      18,295
1986-1987        14,095    7,267    21,362       18,098         3,264      21,362
1987-1988        15,078    9,187    24,265       19,988         4,277      24,265
1988-1989        16,727   10,026    26,753       23,100         3,653      26,753
Under the project, technical textbooks were purchased for the
libraries of the three technical schools, at a total of FBu 9,792,100, broken
down as follows:
-     Kamenge ETS:   FBu 3,197,210
-     Gitega ETP:    Flu 2,997,022
-     Bubanza ETMM:  FBu 3,597,868
Even though all needs were not met, this large number of books
helped upgrade the quality of technical and practical subject education, as
the technical schools were lacking in this regard.
The new books cover all the subjects offered by the schools and
for certain sections there are now enough for each student to have a copy.
Additional requirements could be met gradually from the regular
budget.



- 41 -
The phasing out of boarding cannot yet be envisaged for technical
education since there are few schools and some subjects are offered at only
one establishment.
At present there are now 3,620 boarders, i.e., 88.6 percent of the
total enrolled.
In all communes where the PIU has built social centers at the
request of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the population at large and local
officials have been pleased. The authorities have heightened the awareness of
illiterates and adults capable of learning trades and attendance at the new
centers has been very high. Some are even overcrowded because of the
irresistible appeal of the training they offer for young people. However,
some social centers have had a shortage of teachers of practical subjects,
especially carpentry. This has driven away some young males, but the Ministry
of Social Affairs is trying to remedy the situation.
Regarding enrollments, attendance by male students grew by 18
percent in relation to girls or women from 1985 to 1988.
It was nevertheless highly unfortunate that the MSA was not able
to reproduce the literacy brochures in time, which meant that most of the
funds allocated for that purpose were transferred to other activities.
Conclusion
The objective of the project was to reduce illiteracy, increase
access to primary and secondary eduction and improve teacher training. All
these objectives were achieved, despite a number of scattered shortcomings.
The performance of the PIU was good throughout the third project,
and the training of counterparts, which had left something to be desired in
previous projects, improved markedly.
The results for the MLCs and SCs were less impressive. A study
aimed-at concentrating efforts on several model MLCs is under way. The
Government has also decided to strengthen the coordination of the various
ministries involved in nonformal education.



- 42 -
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    RELATED IDA CREDITS
Name        Obiective          Date of            Status      Comments
of Credit                      Effectiveness
First       Primary            Sept. 1, 1977     Closing      *Objectives
Education   education:                           date         accomplished,
Project     *Support for                         April 30,   particularly in
Credit      reform                                1982        terms of physical
679-BU      *Quantitative                                     components
improvement                                      *Insufficient
*Qualitative                                     practical work in
improvement                                      the MLCs
*Printing of                                     *Very good project
teacher guides                                   management and
*Initial teacher                                 administration
training                                         *Opening of good
Government-IDA
dialogue
Second      *Implementation   July 21, 1980      Closing      *Objectives
Education   and assessment                       date         accomplished in
Project     of educational                       June 30,    terms of physical
Credit      reform                                1986        components
976-BU      *Training of                                      *Programs of tech-
technicians,                                     nical institutions
skilled workers,                                 properly
office personnel                                 implemented
*Support for                                     *Problem with
planning and                                     practical work in
inspection                                       the Ml,Cs
*Very good project
management
Education  '*Quantitative      July 20, 1988     Implemen-   *Excellent pro-
Sector      and qualitative                      tation in   gress on construc-
Develop-    improvement of                       accordance  tion component
ment        primary and                          with time-  *Delays in intro-
Project     secondary educa-                     table drawn duction of
(Credit     tion                                 up at        sectoral
1881-BU)    *Implementation                      appraisal   adjustment
of adjustment                                    measures
measures to                                      *Discussions of
reduce costs                                     problems con-
and improve                                      cerning boarding
budget allocation                                *Excellent project
*Strengthening of                                management
planning



- 43 -
2.    PROJECT TIMETABLE
Phases in the development            Estimated dato           Actual date
of the Prolect
First mention in files                     ---            '   November 1980
Exploratory mission and discussion
of possible project                      ---                April-May 1981
Identification mission                                        December 1981
Project preparation                        ---                Feb./March 1982
Appraisal mission                           ---               June 1982
Credit negotiations                        ---                March 23-26, 1983
Board Approval                                                May 10, 1983
Credit Signing                             ---                June 9, 1983
Credit Effectiveness                 September 9, 1983        November 16, 1983
Amendment of Credit Agreement               ---               April 22, 1986
Project completion                   December 1987            March 1988
Closing of Credit                    June 30, 1988            June 30, 1988



- 44 -
so   ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ACCVMULATED DISBURSEMENTS OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
A.  BY YEAR (US$ million equivalent)
Fiscal Year       FY1984       FY1985       FY1986      FY1987       FY1988
Estimated
at appraisal         1.8         4.6          9.0        13.8        15.8
Actual
amounts              2.8         7.8         13.7        17.7        15.8 *
Actual amount
as 2 of estimate      60         170          150         128          100
3. BY CATEGORY OF DISBURSEMENT (US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal
Category           Estimates         Actual
(1)  Civil Works            2.50                   3.60
(2) Construction materials,
furniture, equipment
and vehicles (including
local transportation
costs)                7.30                   8.34
(3) Consultant's and
Specialist's services         2.29                   2.63
(4)  Fellowships            0.08                   0.12
(5) Salaries and operating
costs of PIU          0.47                   0.92
(6) Initial disbursement to
Special Account       0.76                   0.19
(7)  Unallocated            2.40                     -
TOTAL                 15.80                  15.80 *
*   Date of final disbursement September 13, 1988
Balance canceled on September 13, 1988: SDR 73.56 (US$ 95.63)



- 45 -
4.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(in US$ million and FBu millions)
A.    Proiect costs
cateory  &Rawl abutes         Acg x=xts
a    Z of total    PS$       Th    cf tac
1.  tr                    10.8    970.0    56          3.7      549.0    25
2. R=lshl1eq4p.            4.2    380.0    22          7.8    1,178.0    52
3. Tch. Assist.            2.9    260.0    14          2.5      375.0    16
4. TrainIrg                0.1      10.0     1         0.1       15.0      1
5. PIU ceratir cts         1.3    114.0      7         0.9      142.0      6
7rL                    19.3   1,734.0    100       15.0    2,260.0    100
B.    Proiect financing
(in SDR 000's)
Source                     Credit Azreement          Revised                    Final
April 22, 1986
1. Civil works                    2,300                   4,250                 3,307
2. Construction materials,        6,700                   6,400                 7,829
furniture, equipment and
vehicles (incl. local
transportation costs)
3. Consultants and                2,100                   2,100                 2,415
specialists services
4. Fellowships                        70                    150                   113
5. Salaries and operating            430                    700                   836
cost of PIU
6. Initial disbursement to           700                    700
Special Account
7. Unallocated                    2,200                     200
14,500                 14,500                14,500



- 46 -
5.      PROJECT RESULTS
A.          oddoof            estfnted "  atul nubr of sxl    lac,  cosm   mae  for Tfs,
(w t  EAatu   2*    thilt and PU fil)
MlUIrx                 Nb. of stuft        Comerd area         CItrt.m costs           Ccst per n2
plac               (inu2)                (FR  000')           (E  000')
FAtE Aktul Ygtni  Akt1 Ebt*M                         Al  EDtm   Acal
m                          480     480      3,315     4,357    84,377       141,600       25        32
Jss                       320      320      1,370     2,470    31,506        61,100       25        25
LC built by PIU            240      252       580       767    12,793        10,500       17        14
t( b4Jp priwotely          240      252       580       767    12,793        20,800       17        27
SC Wb1t by PIU             120     120       455       558      7,118         9,000       17        16
SC hi4lt privately         120     120       455       553      7,118        17,700       17        32
B.                o                                       en11ed In Ir tit2onss rKer te
himrd 1aai  Proiect
Instituticn                    7stbated ND.   Aktul No.        Differeme         mmts
MLC                                 11,570        13,920          + 20
JSS (incl. SS of ITIs)              1,920         2,300           + i9
11 (prkeryschl tewher                 320            115          - 64                       ed h
trairdg caly)                                                                     sia        of TFIs Ito
SC                                    120            55 -56



- 47 -
6.    COMPLIANCE WITH CREDIT AGREEMENT COVENANTS
References in
Credit ARreement        Activity                              Status
2.03              A Special Account to be opened and          Implemented.
maintained in FBu in the Central Bank
in which IDA can deposit the funds it
withdraws from the Credit Account at
the Government's request.
3.01 (b)          An Advance Account to be opened and         Implemented but
FBu 31.5 million deposited therein         the opening of the
to finance the Borroweo_'s contribution    account and the
to the Project, the account to be          deposit of the
replenished as required at the             amount delayed
beginning of each calendar semester        effectiveness of
with at least the same amount.             the credit by
about two months.
3.02 (b)          The teacher training specialists,           Implemented.
a technical manager for the print
shop and specialists in rural
women's education to be in place
by July 1, 1983.
3.03              The PIU to be maintained anA kept           Implemented.
appropriately staffed.                     Burundi nationals
increasingly
hold key posts.
3.04              MLCs to be established, at the              Implemented in
request of the authorities, in areas       general but the
where:  (a) their functions do not         TTI in Cibitoke
overlap with those of existing schools,   has an MLC and an
(b) a sufficient number of prospective    SC.
students live within a radius of
5 km (at least 80 new students
annually) and (c) there is an adequate
source of water.
3 *05             A teacher trainer upgrading program to    The program was
be presented to IDA by June 30, 1984       furnished and has
and implemented by September 30, 1984,    been implemented.
taking IDA's comments into account.
3.06              The TTIs to be staffed by September 1,    Implemented.
1985 with qualified teacher trainers
who have completed the MINEDUC
upgrading program.



- 48 -
References in
Credit Aareem*nt                Activitv                      Status
3.07              The results and recommendations of the    Implemented.
school mapping study to be furnished
to IDA by June 30, 1985 and said
recommendations to be implemented
thereafter, taking IDA's comments
into account.
3.08              Four technicians for the print shop to    Implemented.
be selected by September 30, 1983 who
will be awarded training fellowships.
3.09  a)          Annual production plans for school          Implemented.  In 1988,
(b)          books to be furnished to IDA by             for the first time since
July 1, 1983 and to be issued              it was set up, the RPP
thereafter taking into account             did not fully meet its
IDA's comments.                            annual targets.
3.10 (d)          A project evaluation report to be           The PIU produced this
prepared no later than six months          report in January 1989.
after the Closing Date.
3.12              The Borrower to have acquired all           All the rights were
rights to land as shall be required        acquired.
for the project facilities.
4.01 (c)          The accounts for each budget year to        Implemented.
be audited. The Borrower to furnish
to IDA not later than six months
after the end of each year a certified
copy of the report of such audit.
4.02              The buildings, furniture and equipment    Maintenance was
of the institutions included in the        not carried out
Project to be properly maintained          properly.
and maintenance records to be kept.



- 49 _
7.     ME  OM, .U
A.       h     Uswl  of mx  wam
I&      98    184   1985   l96    97  199M    M
up to md  gdd
sgu                                 25.9    3.2
Fwu~cass1to
utk the Bt wd Ucmz~I5.6
Fztm apyoval to effNiv                       .4
94mvisim                                           17.9   9.9   9.8   8.3   1.8  .2
MUW                                                17.9   9.9   9.8   8.3    1.8.  .2



- 50 -
D. MA mfa.
&SO at               mxI /     MmberOf    D                           Perfowm             Type of
b7ect Owls           Year      Peracs    In Field               (a)   Ratirz  Pt fi*m (c)
_ S       sm w a1    04/80        3          60       (E, Al us
-hez~dtz~           4-5/82        3          50       1M, E, A
&xwrd   1            06182        4          60       E, MS, A
SAmsd a:L
1vlsi1                1X0/83      2          30       A, E                    1            he
3     nwAsim 2       03/84        2          a6       A, E                    1            Boadit of
se. schol
S.szAac3             03/85        1           8       A                       2            f
Boamft.
&pmlskn  4           09/85        2          14       A, GM                   1            Bordfrg.
&3e nlskn 5          01/86        2          20       A, MS                   1            Nb pudbl1as.
5 zAsLcz 6           06/86        2          20       A, (ES                   1No pr*lfs.
sewviu    7           11/86       2          20       A,t G                   1            Nopvbls.
9nwdwm 8             09187        2          14       A, MS                   1            lbprds1a.
s1 co  aibe of ds c          be gLSW  bwom  of the nnru  uiaskzu =Axted joArtly with the
ayezvLsl'nudmnai of the flut ad   PhjPct bbn the setora2 so*  &-A apraal. Siv.3arly, tX
s        q1  m u ad for the fist, s      a     d   -.



- 51 _
ANNEX 1
Exchange Rate Fluctuations
Currency unit:     Country:  Burundi franc (FBu)
Currency unit:     Credit:   Special Drawing Rights (SDR)
Year of appraisal: 3/1983:   SDR 1 - US$1.089655 - FBu 98.0689 (US$1 - FBU 90)
$           FBu
Variation:  1983  t      4th quarter t      1 SDR :     1.03847 s       122
1984  :     1st quarter :      1 SDR t     1.05853 s       120
2nd quarter s     1 SDR s      1.05853 :      121
3rd quarter :     1 SDR :      1.03715 :      121
4th quarter s     1 SDR :      1.00885 :      122
1985         1st quarter s    1 SDR :    0.96839 :        126
2nd quarter :     1 SDR :    0.99506 :        121
3rd quarter :     1 SDR :      1.01595 :      122
4th quarter :     1 SDR :      1.08925 :      122
1986  :     1st quarter t      1 SDR :     1.14122 t       120
2nd quarter :     1 SDR :      1.16803 :      121
3rd quarter :     1 SDR s      1.20679 :      142
4th quarter :     1 SDR :      1.21031 t      148
1987         1st quarter :    1 SDR :     1.26266 :       154
2nd quarter :     1 SDR :      1.30528 :      159
3rd quarter s     1 SDR :      1.26136 t      160
4th quarter :     1 SDR :      1.27607 t      160
1988         1st quarter :    1 SDR s     1.35478 :       176
2nd quarter t     1 SDR t      1.38051 :      177
3rd quarter :     1 SDR :      1.30239 :      200
Average during the project                  1 SDR       1.157           141
Average for year of major utilization
1983-1986                                1 SDR        1.077          127
Year of completion (12/1988)                1 SDR       1.346           184



