Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4220-BU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
April 20, 1983
Education and Manpower Development Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =       Franc Burundi (FBU)
US$1.00                  =       FBU 90.0
FBU 100.00               =       US$1.11
US$1.00                  =       SDR 0.91747
SDR 1.00                 =       US$1.08995
MEASURES
1 meter (m)              =       3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq.m)            10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                 0.62 mile
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDF       -    African Development Fund
BEET       -    Technical Education Bureau (Bureau d'Etudes de l'Enseignement
Technique)
BEPES      -    Secondary Education Bureau (Bureau d'Etudes des Programmes
de l'Enseignement Secondaire)
BER        -    Primary Education Bureau (Bureau d'Education Rurale)
D4         -    Assistant Primary Teacher (Trained in Ecoles Moyennes
Pedagogiques or EMP)
D6         -    Primary Teacher (Trained in new, experimental Ecoles de
Formation des Instituteurs or EFI)
D7         -    Primary Teacher (Trained in traditional Ecoles Normales or
EN)
FED        -    European Development Fund (Fonds Europeen de Developpement)
JSTTI      -    Junior Secondary Teacher Training Institute (Institut Pedagogique
or IP)
MLC        -    Multipurpose Learning Centers
MNE        -    Ministry of National Education
MSA        -    Ministry of Social Affairs
PIU        -    Project Implementation Unit (Bureau des Projets Education
or BPE)
iPSTTC       -    Practical Subject Teacher Training Center (Centre de Formation des
Maitres Pratiques or CFMP)
SC         -    Social Center (Foyer Social)
TTI        -    Primary Teacher Training Institute
YAGAMUKAMA -    Private Religious Functional Literacy Organization
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - Deceaber 31



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYMENT ....          ..........    1
Geographic and Socio-Economic Setting ....          ..............   1
Development Trends and Prospects ........................            2
Manpower Needs ....... ..............        ...................     2
II.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND MAJOR ISSUES ....           ..............   3
Overview ...........       .....................................     3'
Administration and Planning ..............................           5
Government Policies and the Reform of the Education Sector    5
Education and Training in the 1978-1982 Development Plan             7
Assessment of the Reform of Education and the 1978-1982
Plan for Education ...................................            7
External Assistance to the Education Sector ....         .........    13
Education Finance ................                                  14
Future Education Development and Recurrent Expenditure ..
Pattern ..........       ....................................    15
Summary .............      ....................................    17
III. BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE AND LENDING STRATEGY IN EDUCATION              18
Role of the Bank Group in Education and Training in Burundi  18
Lessons Learned .........................................    20
Bank Group Strategy for Future Projects ....          .............   21
IV.  THE PROJECT ..........        ....................................   22
Objectives and Composition ...............................   22
Multipurpose Learning Centers .........................   22
Teacher Traîning Institutes ...........................   23
Junior Secondary Schools ..............................   25
Social Centers .........        ...............................   25
Teaching/Learning Aid Production and Distribution                26
Technical Assistance ..................................   27
Female Participation in the Project and Education Sector    28
This report is based on the findings of an'appraisal mission which visited
the Republic of Burundi in June 1982. The mission consisted of Messrs.
A. Salmon (Mission leader, Sr. General Educator), J. Brown (Deputy Division
Chief), A. Stam (Sr. Architect), and G. Zouain (Education Economist/Planner,
Consultant).
This document has a-restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TaDle      r                                                                  Page No.
V.                                                                  .... ~ee c e28
p     c,,                                                  . . .  .   . .,,    .,,   . .2
VIl  P          ½T[WVQT?I         ŽRPÙJY5ÏEŽYZ AND DISBURSE4ENT .....            32
__  îm     '-I    Dc~   -                           . . .. . . .         32
Pzccuramtten.;:         C  e e-    -      oe    e e  e e etç e t    tatettette s             34
D-                         e      t c          e e e   s  e t   t s     i t  ..................  35
Repcrt±ng     colssQ«      9y~    uatI  ;Q o te  c çXe ec   e =   c te   te    et ooe e      eto  e t a      t  37
Rl 37e F; -p7 1, y- SC Î' o4 ,i ii d v a  ^1ü    r-  zI      ....=3.......   o>t*      vXs    ae   37
Audit ing                     ......               ...e....tteee.cettt.ee.......  37
VIlt  AYEE       UD14  RISVt7S e      , -c-tceecttt e......t.. t....              37
VIII= _AGR__IE-E_ME NTSIACLED f1i01ND RZ1COIL>MIE1D--TIONS e e. e......ee.......  39
APPENDIX I        Ls:lftcs:ioncardfication of Force Account Procedures
ANNEX I      '      b-' es &SIXe  C i...aYEIts
Table 1 -  Comparatrve Eduiation  ndîiators
2 -  Pztmïary Eduvcazon - Gross B:nrollme-nt Ratios by Commune (1978-79)
3      -r1ma-c  Eduîcatlon - Access, Retentîon and Performance by District (1980/81)
4  Prirmarv-7 Educazion Enroilment, 1975/76-1980/81
5Prima-ry Ecucarron Develop-aent, 1972/73-1980/81
6 -  Seconidary Ed-acatcon - Disttibution of Students by Sex and Grade (1980/81)
7     Secondary Education Development, 1974/75-1980/81
8 - îigher Educatiîo  Development by Option, 1974/75-1980/81
9 -  Capital and Recurrent Expendltures on Education, 1974-1990
10 -  Recurrent Budget, 1978-1982
il -  Prmary Educatlon    ilternative Projectîons 1982/83-1990/91
12     Sumnary of Enrollment and Estimated Project Cost
13    Estïmated Cost by Category of Expenditure
14 -  Estimated Schedu:Le ox Disbuxrsements
Chart 1 -  Structure of Education, 1981
2 -  Education Pyramid, 1980/81
3 -  Structure of the Mîrn1stry of National Education, 1981
4 -  Structure of trhe Rural Education Bureau (BER)
5 --  Impiementation SChedule
ANNEX II-  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP IBRD NO. 16655



REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
BASIC DATA
General
Area                                    27,800 km2
Total Population (1981)                 4.2 million
Annual Growth Rate                      2.2%
Active Population (1979)                2.1 million
Modern Sector Employment (1979)         102,000
GDP per Capita (1981)                   US$235
Literacy Rate (1981)                    25%
Education (1980/1981)
Enrollments in Primary Educatior-
(Grades 1-6)                         185,100
As % of 7-12 Age Group                  29%
Enrollments in Private Literacy Programs
(Grades 1-6)                         250,000
As % of 7-12 Age Group                  40%
Enrollments in Secondary Education
(Grades 7-13)                        18,100
As % of 13-19 Age Group                 2.5%
Of which General Secondary               8,000
Primary Teacher Training        6,800
Technical Secondaryi/           2,500
Agricultural Secondary            800
Enrollments in Higher Education3/        2,600
As % of 20-23                            0.9%
Education Finance (1981)
Expenditures of the Ministry of
Education (actual)
As % of     As % of Total
(in FBU billion)    GDP    Government Expenditures
- Recurrent              1.98            2.4            18.7
- Capital                0.32            0.4             6.7
- Total                  2.30            2.8            15.0
1/   Including about 9,300 students enrolled in private non-aided schools.
2/   Including 2,035 students in schools under the Ministry of National Education.
3/   Including about 800 students being trained abroad.






REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYMENT
Geographie and Socio-Economic Setting
1.01      Burundi is one of the poorest and most populated countries in the
world (150 persons per sq.km. on average, 250 pet sq.km. of arable land and
400 per sq.km. in the Central Highlands). About 95% of its population,
estimated at 4.2 million in January 1981, is settled on small land holdings
scattered across hilly rural areas, making a living from subsistence faim-
ing, tea and coffee which is Burundi's main export crop.
1.02      The major constraints to Burundi-s development have been (a) the
dependency of foreign exchange earnings on one major commodity, coffee,
which accounts for about 90% of export receipts and whose price recently
has declined in relation to Burundi's major imports; (b) general poverty
(US$235 GDP per capita in 1981); (c) a land-locked position dramatically
raising import transportation costs; (d) limited natural resources, in
particular a relatively small agricultural area cultivated through primi-
tive means; (e) rugged terrain resulting in population dispersion and poor
communications; and (f) extremely low levels of education and skills(l)
which preclude a more efficient use of even the limited natural resources
of the country and reduce possibilities for development projects. The 1979
population census has also shown that Burundi is confronted with such
population problems as a current annual growth rate of over 2 percent;
rural-urban migration mainly towards Bujumbura, the only city in the
country; and a very young population,(2) resulting in an increasing depend-
ency ratio and burden on the active population. Attempts at curbing down
demographic increase through population education, and introducing agricul-
tural innovations will have a limited impact as long as the level of basic
education for the overwhelming majority of the population is so critically
low.
1. Three out of four adults are illiterate, and despite recent substantial
progress, primary and secondary enrollment ratios are still among the
lowest in the world (para. 2.04).
2. Primary and secondary school age groups represent about 15% and 17% of
the total population, respectively.



-2-
Development Trends and Prospects
1.03      Since 1977, the Government has implemented a broad-based develop-
ment policy to benefit the whole population. The major objectives of this
policy, reflected in the Third Five-Year Development Plan (1978-82), have
been: (a) to emphasize agricultural production to meet the needs for food;
(b) to increase the rate of economie growth to provide greater employment
opportunities and more income to the poorest segments of the population;
(c) to give the Governnent a more active role in mobilizing financial and
manpower resources, given the shortages of entrepreneurial talents in the
private sector; and (d) to foster decentralization of economic and social
activity. A number of actions have been taken in particular to develop
rural areas and retain their population by improving their living condi-
tions and increasing their working efficiency and earnings. Among these
actions is the expansion of basic education, assisted by the First Educa-
tion Project (para. 3.01), to make rural populations more receptive to the
benefits expected from technological and socio-economic changes and give
them the desire to be instrumental in such changes.
1.04      Between 1976 and 1980, GDP growth averaged 4.5% per annum in real
terms, as compared with the revised plan target of 5%. Agriculture has
remained the mainstay of the economy and contributes 60% of GDP and practi-
cally all exports of the country. However, the general productivity in
this sector has been low due to the population pressure on the land.
Improvements have been sought through the introduction of new crops and
techniques, marketing procedures, and land preservation. However, the
active participation of the farmers and support of Government services have
been limited by the still low level of basic education among the rural
population, and managerial, technical and administrative skills in the
public sector. Achievements in the modern sector, which represented 40% of
GDP in 1980, were also limited by the widespread shortage of middle level
skilled staff and trained managers and administrators.
1.05      On the financial side, Burundi's tax base is fragile as the main
sources of revenue are levied on coffee, beer and imported goods. In
1977-78, when the coffee boom permitted, revenues were high but expendi-
tures rose faster. Subsequently, as coffee prices came down, growth in
revenue slowed, while expenditures rose to maintain ongoing and completed
projects and to meet the higher costs of rising wage and salary levels.
Parastatals have also placed a growing burden on the budget to meet both
operating deficits and capital requirements. Notwithstanding those rising
claims on public revenue, the Government has pursued sizeable public capi-
tal expenditure plans, and overall deficits, financed by domestic bank
credit, have increased. It now appears that some retrenchment will be
necessary to avoid excessive pressure on the banking system and/or the
accumulation of arrears.
Manpower Needs
1.06      In 1979, while 95% of the labor force of over 2.0 million was
engaged mainly in subsistence agriculture, the modern sector, still located
principally in Bujumbura, employed only 100,000 in the public sector,



- 3 -
construction, a few industries and trade. Of these 70% were in the public
sector. Despite the narrow size of the modern sector, there is a substan-
tial imbalance between present manpower qualifications and future needs, as
compared to the output of the education system. This imbalance mainly
affects middle level manpower. On the basis of a Bank-financed manpower
study,(3) the order of magnitude of the average annual needs for trained
manpower in the modern sector until the year 2000 would be about 3,300 of
which 250 university graduates, 550 middle-level technicians and 2,500
skilled workers and employees.
1.07      With regard to the informal subsistence sector, at least one
third of manpower resources in the rural areas is estimated to remain
underutilized, In addition, assuming that the labor force would grow at
the same rate as the population, employment opportunities in this sector
would have to provide more than 50,000 jobs per year over the next two
decades. Although the expansion of agriculture and rural development is a
priority in the Development Plan, it will be difficult to create such a
number of jobs which would help absorb a part of the estimated 100,000 new
15-year olds joining the working age group annually.
1.08      Therefore, the major sectors for which education and training
should be expanded are: (a) middle level qualifications in the modern
sector and (b) the traditional sector which is expected to be progressively
modernized according to the Government's stated priority. This specifi-
cally requires the expansion of (a) junior secondary education which is the
necessary general education base for middle level technical training,
particularly in the tertiary sector, and (b) primary and non-formal educa-
tion and training in rural areas, in coordination with rural development
activities and programs.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND MAJOR ISSUES
Overview
2.01      The education system continues to suffer from a number of inade-
quate structures, methods and standards inherited from the past. Each
level of education is still considered as a step towards the next academic
level among students and parents, without proper attention being given to
costs or productive employment opportunities. However, major reforms have
taken place in primary education since 1973; secondary education and
primary teacher training are being reorganized and improved; and effective
attempts at making the system more efficient and economical are presently
being made (para. 2.45).
3. See "Modele d'adaptation de la formation technique a 1'emploi" by J. C.
Castagnos and C. Echevin, February 1981.



- 4 -
2.02      The structure of formal education in Burundi is shown [n Annex 1,
C-1. It consists of six years of primary education; fout years of junior
secondary education; three to four years of senior secondary education and
two to five years of higher education. Primary teacher training is
provided in secondary level Teacher Training Institutes (TTI) through five-
and eight-year courses. However, these courses are intended to be progres-
sively phased out and be replaced by a new six-year program presently under
experimentation.(4) Technical, agricultural and medical/sanitary education
is also provided through mainly formal programs. The University of Burundi
offers the major options for the training of higher level staff.
2.03      The educational system comprises three types of schools:  (a)
Government or "official" schools; (b) Governinent-aided private schools
offering "official" programs, with their recurrent expenditures financed by
the Government; and (c) independent private schools. Except for about
320,000 primary and adult literacy students enrolled in independent pdivate
institutions, education at all levels is financed by the Government.
2.04      The 1980-81 enrollment in the education system is given in Annex
1, C-2. Despite recent substantial progress, enrollment ratios in primary
and secondary education (29% and 2.5%, respectively) are still among the
lowest in the world (Annex 1, T-1). Non-aided private institutions enroll
an additional 40% of the primary age-group (para. 2.21). However, the
level and academic quality of the education provided in these institutions
îs generally below those of official primary schools, although the programs
are well geared to the realities of rural communities.
2.05      The internal efficiency of the system is generally low, par-
ticularly in primary and higher education: In primary education, the
drop-out reaches 60% and 55% of the six-year student cohort are repeaters.
Less than 15% of Grade 1 entrants reach Grade 6 without repeating. In
secondary education, an estimated 30% to 40% of students are repeaters and
15% of enrollments drop out. In higher education, about 700 students, i.e.
40% of enrollments, fail annually. This represents the cost of 35,000
primary students. This low efficiency results from the generally low
quality of primary and secondary education due to poor facilities and
equipment, an insufficent quantity of textbooks and, above all, staff's
insufficient practical qualifications and motivation. This issue is
expected to be allevîated in the medium term by the progressive improvement
in the quality of educatîon through better teacher training, curricula and
textbooks, and more careful screening of university entrants.
4. In the local terminology, the five-year course trains assistant primary
teachers or D4s, while fully qualified primary teachers or D7s are trained
in the eight-year course. The new six-year program includes four years of
junior secondary educatlon and two years of professional training and will
produce a new category of qualified teachers called D6s.



- 5 -
2.06      The distribution of school facilities over the country is not
geographically balanced in proportion to the distribution of the popula-
tions. This results in highly variable primary enrollment ratios among the
79 communes of the country ranging from 10% to 60% (Annex 1, T-2) and
considerable imbalance in terms of access to, and quality of, education
and students performance in the various parts of the country (Annex 1,
T-3). Of the overwhelming majority of primary and basic education leavers
who cannot be admitted to secondary education (para. 2.26), a substantial
number fall back into illiteracy in the areas where non-formal follow-up
prQgrams are non-existent or insufficient. As for secondary education, the
erratic distribution of schools over the 18 districts of the country still
reflects missionary settlements over the years and results in costly board-
ing requirements as students are recruited on a nation-wide basis.
Administration and Planning
2.07      The Ministry of National Education (MNE) (Annex 1, C-3) has
administrative, financial and academic control over primary, secondary,
teacher training and technical education. The contribution of technical
ministries such as the Ministries of Agriculture, Health, Public Works, and
Posts and Telecommunications represents an important share (38%) of enroll-
ments in specialized education.
2.08      Educational planning in Burundi is carried out by the Planning
Unit of the MNE. This unit, established in 1977, is mainly engaged in
statistical work. During the last two years, it has started an exercise
in school mapping wîth the assistance of the International Institute for
Educational Planning, Paris. It also cooperates with the Ministries of
Planning, and Social Affaiis in preparing a set of projections and models
to reconcile employment and training opportunities. With regard to school
mapping, a nation-wide exercise has become of utmost importance to correct
the present erratic distribution of schools (para. 2.06) and implement the
education reform rationally and equitably. It is a necessity for phasing
out boarding facilities, reorganizing secondary education and obtaining the
highest possible return from the recent decision to introduce
double-shifting and automatic piomotion at primary level. The Planning
Unit is staffed with qualified national specialists.  However, it still
needs technical assistance in data collection and processing, and in
school-mapping.
Government Policies and the Reform of the Education Sector
2.09      The recently published education and training policy confirms
the Government's objectives and strategy stated in the 1973 Reform and the
1978-1982 Development Plan. The main thrust of the 1973 Reform was to
adapt education to the local environment and to make it more responsive to
the country's development needs. The Reform focussed on Basic Education
(formal primary and non-formal literacy and training programs): it
emphasized the use of Kirundi, the national language; French was introduced



- 6 -
ln Grade 3 in order to leave an element of preparation for secondary educa-
tion; it ruralized the curriculum through introduction of environmental
sciences, and practical subjects related to agriculture, manual crafts,
and home economics; it planned to convert primary schools into Multipurpose
Learning Centers (MLC), i.e. community schools for children and adults,
being the focal point for life-long education and training, civic
activities and rural development programs; It also planned to progressively
convert the primary course into a self-contained program preparing students
for a productive life in their environment upon completion of the course
rather than for the next higher level of academic education.
2.10      The 1973 Reform also included the reorganization and reorienta
tion of Secondary Education, with a diversified junior secondary course
preparing for nine upper secondary and vocational programs.(5) This
increased diversification was intended to meet manpower needs more ade-
quately. The first task was a major reform of the curricula giving Kirundî
increased importance and placing more emphasis on sciences and mathematics
versus arts. Activity-oriented methods were also to be enhanced through
more laboratory and library work in opposition to the prevailing academic
course presentation by teachers.
2.11      As for Higher Education, a consolidated National University was
to be established with greater diversification and expansion of its facul-
ties. Students were to be admitted to the University on the basis of an
orientation process taking labor market needs into account.
2.12      In 1979/80, a reform of Technical Education was also initiated to
ensure timely availability of skilled manpower. To make technical educa-
tion more efficient, the reform emphasized structural and curricular chan-
ges introducing production-oriented training directly related to future
employment opportunities. The cooperation of employers was sought to gear
technical training programs to the actual needs of the profession.
2.13      The implementation of the above reforms was entrusted to
autonomous units operating under the authority of the General Directorates
of Primary and Secondary Education (Annex 1,C-3). These units are the
Rural Education Bureau or BER (Annex 1, C-4), the Secondary Education
Bureau or BEPES and the Technical Education Bureau or BEET, respectively
established ln 1973, 1976 and 1977. They are responsible for the develop-
ment of new curricula and teaching methods, development and production of
textbooks and teachers' guides, and orientation and upgrading of teachers
and inspectors.
5. Arts, sciences, primary teacher training, industrial arts, commerce,
agriculture, health, social work, and art.



Education and Training in the 1978-1982 Development Plan
2.14      The above Plan stated the following targets:  In Basic Education,
(para. 2.09), enrollments in primary schools should reach about 200,000
students in 1982/83 i.e. 30% of the 7-12 ge group, versus 23% in 1976/77.
In order to reach universal basic educatic- by 1990, with enrollments
equally distributed over formai primary and non-formal programs, the
Government started a fanctional literacy program of its own which would
complement the independent private programs (para. 2.21), and the Govern-
ment-aided programs provided mainly by the Social Centers(6) (para. 2.24).
This aimed at urgently raisîng the educational standards of the rural
population to the minimum level required for any socio-economic progress
(para. 1.02), at acceptable costs.
2.15      The Plan also gave priority to expanding access to Secondary
Education(7) by increasing the number of student places in Grade 7 from
about 2,800 to 5,000, which would result in a general secondary enrollment
of about 17,000 students in 1982-1983. This would represent a 5% annual
increase rate during the Plan period. It was also proposed to reorganize
secondary education into more economical units, equitably distributed over
the eight provinces of the country (para. 2.06).
2.16      For Technical and Higher Education, the Plan indicated a need
for a total of 7,500 and 3,500 student places, respectively by 1982/83,
without any precise analysis of existing training facilities, labor market
requirements and financial constraints. These figures were realistically
revised downwards to 3,500 and 2,400, respectively.
Assessment of the Reform of Education and the 1978-1982 Plan for Education
2.17      The reform is still under experimentation and evaluation, and
does not yet cover all subjects and grades. However, positive results have
been obtained and the Plan targets have virtually been reached.
2.18      In primary education, the progress of the reform has been slowed
by the teachers  and inspectors  underqualification and the deficient
distribution of textbooks. Kirundization is generally successful but
French remains below the standards required for secondary education because
of teachers insufficent qualifications and the academic methods utilized.
The ruralization process has produced encouraging results although manual
crafts instruction has been neglected.  Generally, primary schools have not
yet become actual "community schools" because of the limited participation
of local communities and deficient coordination among the various agencies
involved in rural development. However, following an interministerial
6. Under the Ministry of Social Affairs (MSA).
7. Primary graduates have access to secondary education after passing the
nationwide entrance examination (Concours National), the quota of which is
based on the number of student places available in Grade 7.



- 8 -
convention held in 1981, country-wide sensitization campaigns aiming at
developing self-help educational programs and community schools are under-
way.
2.19      In qtuantitative terms, the target of the present Plan for primary
education (para. 2.14) will be reached (Annex 1, T-4). In 1980/81, a total
of about 185,000 students were enrolled in primary education, representing
29% of the 7-12 age-group. The average student:class and teacher ratios
were 41:1 and 37:1, respectively (Annex 1, T-5). Despite the dispersion of
the school population, the student:teacher ratio could still be raised to
reach a realistic average of 40:1 at the present stage for the country as a
whole, with large differences continuing to prevail in the various regions.
2.20      The reform of primary education-has been implemented by the BER:
curriculum and textbook development have progressed satisfactorily with
ovei 100,000 teachers' guides and teaching brochures distributed to the
4,500 operatîonal teachers. Some evaluation work has also been carried
out: inter alla, a general assessment of the reform and internal efficiency
of pDirmary education has been made. Studies on double-shifting and
automatic promotion have resulted in the recent decision to implement both
as from 1982/83. However, the BER has become a cumbersome ministerial
service with 140 professionals and supporting staff, and management
deficîencies have severely hampered printshop operation and textbook dis-
tribution. By October 1982, the printshop had produced 370,000 textbooks,
as compared wîth a target of about 700,000, and only 190,000 of these books
had been delivered to the schools. These deficiencies are expected to be
alleviated by the newly appointed printshop manager under a Unesco con-
tract. However, a more efficient operational framework than the BER is
required to ensure adequate textbook production and distribution.
2.21      Non-formal education.  Non-formal education comprises the inde-
pendent religious Yagamukama centers, the public MLCs, and the Govern-
mertt-aided Social Centers (SC). The respective clienteles and course
objectives are similar but, while Yagamukama centers and SCs are located in
parishes, MLCs serve more dispersed populations. The private religious
Yagamukama centers constitute the most effective non-formal education
network in Burundi and have a highly positive impact on the educational
development of the majority of the population. They provide functional
literacy and numeracy including improved cultivation of foodcrops, manual
crafts, health, nutrition and environmental sanitation to primary
school-age children and adults who cannot be served by the Government
system. These programs are closely related to the needs of rural life and
have gained the confidence of the local population. However, Yagamukama
programs operate in an environment of extreme scarcity of any education at
al! and, when available, parents do choose primary education for their
children because of its generally higher academic level providing possible
access to secondary education (para. 2.04). Although the Yagamukama cen-
ters are not included in the Plan, they represent a major share in the
country's education development efforts. In 1981, they enrolled 250,000
primary school age students, i.e. 40% of the relevant age group, and 60,000



- 9 -
adults. The Government, in its efforts to generalize literacy, pending
the universalization of formal primary education, relies on the Yagamukama
network to continue to enroll a substantial share of the primary school age
population. This explains Government's intention to upgrade literacy
instractors in primary teacher training institutes and produce literacy
textbooks with Unicef assistance. Yagamukama centers are expected to
maintain their enrollments at the present level in the foreseeable future.
2.22      As for public non-formal education under the MNE (para. 2.14),
it provides a two-year basic education and training program in four-day
weekly sessions for adults and out-of-school youths in 30 MLCs under the
First Education Project (para. 3.02). The course is taught by instructors
trained at the Practical Subject Teacher Training Center (PSTTC) also
established under the above project. These instructors are semi-skilled
workers to whom a pedagogical and school management training course is
offered at the PSTTC. Achievements in literacy and practical training have
been highly variable. A number of programs could not be implemented
because: (a) they did not coincide with local needs; (b) the number of
potential students within walking distance was insufficent; (c) employment
was provided in the vicinity without specific training requirements; (d)
the poverty of local populations precluded any marketing outlet for the
production of the MLCs; or (e) no employment was offered to graduates. In
this respect, the semi-specialized skill training orientation of the
programs has led a vast majority of graduates to disappointed expectations
of salaried employment. While this has resulted in the under-utilization
of some MLC workshops, the capacity of other programs was insufficient for
the demand. This has resulted in erratic enrollments ranging from 30 to
120, as compared with the standard capacity of 80 student places pet MLC.
This might be redressed by focussing more on multipurpose rural skill
training for gainful self-employment and improvement of living conditions.
Rowever, employment of MLC graduates by priority should be encouraged
within development programs to be implemented in the vicinity, or within
craft production centers to be established wherever marketing outlets
exist. The MNE has recently contacted the ministries involved and a review
of the subsector objectives is underway.
2.23      Quantitatively, MNE non-formal education is still in its initial
stage. So far 567 trainees have graduated(8) and the programs enroll 1,642
trainees(9) resulting in an average enrollment of 55 per MLC, as compared
with a capacity of 80. This is still far from the 20,000 non-formal stu-
dents originally anticipated for 1982/83 in the Plan. However, after the
objectives of adult non-formal education and training are modified along
8. In four practical programs: Agriculture/animal husbandry (161); masonry
(169); home economics (130); and carpentry (107).
9. Distributed as follows: Agriculture/animal husbandry 356; masonry 451;
home economics 442; and carpentry 393.



- 10 -
the lines mentioned in paragraph 2.22, it is reasonable to expect an
enrollment of 4,000 students in the 60 MLCs to be completed in 1983.
2.24      The Social Centers (SC) (para. 2.14) have provided similar func-
tional literacy and training programs to the same clientele with greater
success. Although SCs originally addressed illiterates, they now enroll an
increasing number of primary leavers not finding admission to secondary
education. In 1980/81, there were about 7,100 students enrolled in SCs.
Of these, about 5,000 were females (70%) and only 2,500 (36%) were
illiterates. They were distributed in 107 centers and their 21 branches.
The courses were taught by 406 teachers, 65% of whom were qualifed. The
duration of the program is three years on the basis of 195 daily sessions
per year and 29 1/2 hours of training per week, generally followed by one
to two years of gainful employment in the centers. The income received
during this period enables graduates to buy sewing machines or tools to
start a business of their own. Achievements have been substantial as most
centers were established in areas where the local populations had expressed
their need for them. In addition, graduates have been followed up through
the 121 Social Animation Centers attended by 30,000 SC graduates in 1981.
The increase in total enrollments in MSA programs from about 23,000 in 1979
to 37,000 in 1981 reflects the success of the system due generally to
efficient management and realistic grass-root level objectives based on the
populations request.
2.25      In Secondary Education, emphasis has been placed on the develop-
ment of the new junior secondary curriculum and related teaching/learning
aids by the BEPES (para. 2.13). While good results have been obtained in
agriculture, economics, biology and English, Kirundi has been neglected and
difficulties are still experienced in developping a practical method in
French which could make up for the deficiencies of primary education in
this field (para. 2.18). Secondary education in general has remained
overly academic and science teaching in particular has not improved as
expected because of the shortage of practical facilities such as
laboratories and libraries, and equipment (para. 2.10). However, the BEPES
is presently engaged in further development and evaluation of new curricula
and teaching aids along the practical lines of the reform. Although a
greater diversification of options has been achieved (para. 2.10), the
professionalization process aiming at preparing for employment upon comple-
tion of senior secondary education, has not been successful, as all
options, even teacher training, still primarily prepare for the University.
2.26      Overall secondary enrollment targets have been virtually reached
in 1980/81 with 18,086 students, including 16,856 under the MNE and 1,230
under other ministries (Annex 1, T-6). This represents a 6% average annual
increase rate over the last four years (Annex 1, T-7), which is in conform-
ity with the Plan (para. 2.15). However, admission to the first year of
secondary education has stagnated below 3,000. It even decreased to 2,715
in 1980/81, representing only 12% of the 23,300 primary Grade 6 students.
This is due to the severe shortage of student places in Grade 7, a relative
increase of senior secondary enrollments and a substantial number of



- il -
repeaters (para. 2.05) in limited and saturated facilitîes. The on-going
reorganization of secondary education(10) is expected to improve the dis-
tribution of secondary facilities over the country (para. 2.15), maximize
the utilization of facilities and staff, and phase out boarding progres-
sively. However, it will not expand the capacity of the system which will
continue to provide a sufficient number of senior secondary student places
but an insufficient number of student places at junior secondary level.(11)
2.27      Primary teaclier training has been a particularly critical
sub-sector. From 1975 to 1981, enrollments in D7 TTIs (para. 2.02)
increased from 3,148 to 4,715 students, i.e. at an average annual rate of
9%, while those of the D4 TTIs--the main source of primary teachers-
decreased from 2,418 in 1976/77 to 1,854 in 1980/81. In 1980, a total of
454 new teachers graduated of whom 185 were D7 teachers and 269 were D4s.
However, D7 teacher training is considered as a substitute for ordinary
secondary education and actually prepares for the University. This results
in most D7 qualified teachers leaving primary school teaching immediately
after the compulsory year of service following their graduation, either to
teach in junior secondary schools or, above all, to enroll at the Univer-
sity. As for the D4 assistant teachers, who constitute the bulk of the
primary teaching force, their one-year training program is too short to
provide them with sufficient professional qualifications.
2.28      To reconcile teacher output with the needs of the system, Govern-
ment has recently oriented an increasing number of secondary students
towards teacher training. At the same time, the MNE is now experimenting
a new type of teacher training course which is more practical and more
attractive to students (para. 4.05). The above measures, combined with the
saturation of employment opportunities in other areas of the public sector,
are expected to resolve the teacher training issue in the near future,
provided new adequate training facilities are built.
2.29      With regard to secondary teachers, the Junior Secondary Teacher
Training Institute (JSTTI) of the University of Burundi, established in
1979, has just started producing qualified junior secondary teachers and
JSTTI enrollments have dramatically increased recently. Therefore,
unqualified junior secondary teachers, including 500 primary teachers, are
expected to be replaced within a few years and the JSTTI is likely to be
able to meet the growing needs at this level in the near future. As for
10. Affecting a total of 50 schools (20 General Secondary Schools, 15 D7
TTIs, 8 Junior Secondary Schools and 7 D4 TTIs).
11. 4,300 senior secondary student places and 11,000 junior secondary
student places, as compared with the 19,000 places estimated to be required
to feed senior secondary education and skilled worker training programs.
With a students:class ratio of 35:1 (39:1 at junior secondary level), the
capacity of existing facilities can be considered as fully utilized.



12 -
senior secondary teachers, the output of the University is expected to
provide a sufficient supply.
2.30      In Technical Education, new production-oriented curricula have
been introduced; skilled worker trainees with a higher general secondary
education background have been admitted; and progress has been made in
relation to the cooperation between the MNE and employers, as required
(para. 2.12). Technical education enrollments have dramatically increased
by 13% p.a. over the last five years and amounted to 3,265 in 1980/1981
(including 2,035 under the MNE, 800 under the Ministry of Agriculture, 287
under the Ministry of Health and 143 under other ministries). Therefore,
the plan targets (para. 2.16) are virtually reached. When the on-going
expansion under the Second Education Project (para. 3.01) and Belgian
assistance (para. 2.34) is completed by 1985, the formal training system
will be able to cover all the estimated needs for high level manpower, over
60% of the needs for middle-level technicians and administrative staff, but
only a quarter of the needs for skilled and semi-skilled staff (para.
1.06). In view of complementary on the job training opportunities, this
output is presently sufficient with regard to middle level technicians but
the training of semi-skilled and skilled workers has still to be expanded.
2.31      The University has been successfully consolidated into nine
faculties and institutes,(12) as planned, and international quality stand-
ards are applied. Together with the programs offered abroad, higher educa-
tion provides an adequate spectrum of options. However, the number of
heterogeneous backgrounds and levels of education obtained by students
abroad creates difficulties with national employment standards and is
detrimental to staff cooperation in work places. Therefore, training
abroad is being reduced.
2.32      Higher Education enrollments increased at an alarming rate prior
to 1980/81 (Annex 1, T-8), almost quadrupling the number of Government
fellowships which represented 10% of the MNE recurrent budget. This was
energetically corrected in September 1981 through a tight screening of
entrants and a substantial reduction of Government fellowships. While
enrollments within the University of Burundi have stabilized about 1,800,
total higher education enrollments fell from about 3,000 to 2,600.  This
and the 1981 output of 250 graduates coincide with the Plan targets (paras.
1.06 and 2.16).
2.33      Examinations for primary and secondary education have been
developed by qualified national and expatriate specialists of the BER and
BEPES and they are run by the MNE.  The objectives of secondary education
12. Faculties of Law, Economics and Social Sciences, Arts and Human Scien-
ces, Sciences (including Polytechnics), Agronomy, Psychology and Education,
and Medicîne and Pharmacy; the Institute of Physical Education and Sports;
and the Secondary Teacher Training College.



- 13 -
examinations are to test whether students have reached the standards
required to be admitted to the next higher level; to orient them towards
programs best suitîng their abilities and wishes as well as manpower needs;
and to screen them according to available student places in these various
programs. In primary education, confusion still prevails in relation to
the objectives of the course which still aims primarily at preparing for
secondary education rather than for active life in a rural environment, as
officially stated (para. 2.09).  Therefore, examinations are primarily
utilized as a selection device and, to a lesser extent, to test students'
skills and acquisitions. However, a number of piecemeal tests are also
being developed in various subjects to test the quality of education
provided. At thîs stage of the reform, evaluation and quality control of
education are essential: Curricula and teaching aids should be revised in
the light of experience; a comprehensive range of related tests should be
developed; an overall inventory of teaching aids in schools should be made;
and the quality of the teaching staff should be evaluated. The inspec-
torate is still underqualified and the evaluation units of the MNE are
inadequately staffed to implement the whole range of the above assign'ments.
However, multilateral and bilateral assistance in this field and the new
generation of teachers and teacher trainers (paras. 4.07 and 4.08) are
expected to alleviate the above issue with time.
External Assistance to the Education Sector
2.34      Total foreign aid to the education sector amounted to an
estimated US$30.0 million in 1981, representing about 50% of total educa-
tion financing. While the Bank Group is the major source of external
assistance for capital investments in education, a number of other donors
provide substantial technical assistance and some funds for capital
projects in the sector. In 1980/81, a total of 807 fellowships were
financed by 23 countries. In 1982, Belgium has provided about US$20.0
million to finance specialists' services, teachers, fellowships, and the
construction of education facilities. In addition, a comprehensive primary
teacher upgrading program is under preparation for future financing. The
European Development Fund (FED) provides about US$1.0 million annually for
training overseas and has contributed over US$3.0 million for the construc-
tion of the Faculty of Agronomy. In 1982, France provided about US$2.0
million to finance fellowships, specialists' services, textbook production,
educational radio, teacher upgrading, and new facilities for technical
education and the Faculty of Medicine. UNDP assistance has concentrated on
textbook production, evaluation and teacher training and the establishment
of the Faculty of Engineering. The World Food Program is providing about
US$17 million in food aid to assist secondary school boarding over the
1982-86 period. UNICEF is helping to improve primary school teacher train-
ing and nonformal rural education. Action-Aid, a British non-governmental
organization, has a program to fund primary school construction, equipment
and operations including 75% of the teachers' salaries.  This program
amounted to about US$1.3 million in 1980.



- 14 -
Education Finance
2.35      Education in Burundi is free except for annual secondary school
fees of US$22 equivalent per student and a financial contribution by
parents for the acquisition of textbooks produced by the MNE. Education is
financed by public funds except for independent private institutions (para.
2.03). More than 95% of Government financing of education and training is
through the MNE. The remaining 5% are shared mainly between the Ministries
of Agriculture, Health, and Public Works.  MNE capital expenditures over
the last five years have ranged between 3% and 7% of total Government
capital investment and are projected to average about 5% during the
remainder of the 1980s (Annex 1, T-9). This allocation should be suffi-
cient as primary and secondary enrollments are expanded through less capi-
tal intensive investments than previously, although more emphasis is being
given to school maintenance and rehabilitation which is funded largely from
the capital budget.
2.36      While Government's recurrent expenditures have increased on the
whole at about 22% annually over the period 1978-1982 in current prices,
the rate of increase of MNE's recurrent expenditures has been only about
17%, as Government has given priority in the allocation of additional funds
to other sectors. The share of the MNE recurrent budget was about 19% in
1981, down from 22% in 1978. However, it is expected to return to the
21-22% level in the late 1980s as new education projects come on stream.
It is doubtful that MNE could or should fully absorb the 25% share of total
Government recurrent expenditures which the Ministry of Planning would be
prepared to allocate to education and training in the late 1980s, given
Burundi's need to finance other sectors and the expected outcome of recent
decisions for reducing education unit costs (para. 2.37). The distribution
of recurrent expenditures within the various levels of education (Annex 1,
T-10) has been as follows:
1978     1981       1982  (budget
provisions)
Primary Education                          44%      43%        39%
Secondary and Technical Education          33%      28%        35%
Higher Education                           21%      27%        23%
Non-Formal Education                        -        1%         2%
Administration                              2%       1%         1%
1 00     100%       ____
Primary education costs have been expanding at about 13% annually due to
the steady growth in enrollment while higher education costs have grown at
only 9% annually as Government has tried to moderate cost increases (para.
2.32). The allocation for secondary education in 1982 is too high, due to
the overestimated number of teachers on which it is based, and real expen-
ditures are likely to be more in line with previous years' percentages.
A minimal part of Government's education expenditures is recovered through



- 15 -
secondary school fees of FBU 2,000 per annum and per student ($22 equiv-
alent), the sale of textbooks, and the sale of products from the MLC and SC
workshops and agricultuial projects.  In addition, local communities con-
tribute to the construction and maintenance of school facilities.
2.37      Student unit costs in primary education in 1981 were US$53.
These costs will decline in real terms as double shifting is progressively
introduced. Consequently, it is expected that primary school enrollment
could increase to about 50% of the age group by 1990, as planned (para.
2.14), without expanding the percentage of MNE resources allocated to
primary education. Student unit costs are US$350 for general secondary
education and teacher training and US$510 for technical secondary educa-
tion.  Governnent is committed to reducing these costs through, inter alia,
progressively phasing out boarding which represents almost one half of
general secondary education costs and one third of the costs for technical
education. Boarding costs have increased at only half of MNE's rate in the
last five years and this trend is expected to continue as new secondary
schools are built without boarding facilities. The student unit cost for
higher education is US$3,070 and is expected to stabilize in real terms as
Government s policy of reducing fellowships will compensate for the
increase of other expenditures due to inflation. The cost of fellowships
have increased at only two thirds of the rate of MNE expenditures in
1978-1982 and were budgeted at the same level in 1982 and as was actually
spent in 1981.  The above primary and secondary unit costs are in line with
those of other countries at similar levels of development for a similar
quality of education. The unit cost for higher education is dloser to
those found in higher income countries because the quality and types of
education provided are based on the international standards required at
that level.
Future Education Development and Recurrent Expenditure Pattern
2.38      In primary education, the target set by Governnent for the
present decade is to reach an admission rate of 60% of the 7-year olds and
a gross enrollment ratio of 50% by 1990. This lis feasible with double
shifting and would result in an enrollment of about 430,000 students in
primary schools (Annex 1, T-il). If the 250,000 non-formal Yagamukama
students, representing then 30% of the primary age group, are added, a
gross.7-12 age group enrollment ratio of 80% in basic education could be
reached by the target year.
2.39      Assuming that automatic promotion and double shifting are imple-
mented in all grades by 1987/88, as scheduled, and that double shifting can
be effectively introduced into 60% to 75% of existing schools,(13) annual
new teachers  requirements would be about 750 by 1990/1991.  This is within
the productive capacity of the teacher training system with the proposed
13. Resulting in an average student:teacher ratio ranging from 64:1 to 70:1



- 16 -
Third Education Project TTIs (para. 4.05) and the new D6 programs (para.
2.28) progressively taking over from the present system (para. 2.27).
2.40      Double shifting is expected to reduce the share of primary educa-
tion in the MNE recurrent budget, which is expected to remain about 40% by
the end of the decade. This is below the 50% mark which the MNE is
prepared to allocate to primary education. This share would be reasonable
and would theoretically result in a gross enrollment ratio of over 65% with
570,000 students on a double shift basis by 1990. This would still be
within the reach of the teacher training system with the assistance of the
proposed project. With the Yagamukama and MNE non-formal enrollments
(para. 2.38), universal basic education would virtually be reached.
However, even though this is financially feasible and highly desirable,
physical constraints are likely to postpone universal basic education to
the mîd 1990s at the earliest.
2.41      As for secondary education, the planned reorganization and the
proposed projects to be financed by the Bank Group and the African Develop-
ment Bank (para. 3.12), would result in a general secondary education
enrollment of about 20,500 in 1987/88 (as compared with about 15,000
presently). Of these, 15,500 would be in junior secondary schools. This
would still be short of the 19,000 students estimated to be required at
this level (para. 2.26). However, assuming that boarding would have
already been substantially reduced and only 40% of enrollments would still
need to be accommodated in schools, about 20% of the MNE recurrent budget
would be required. Another 8% should be allocated to technical education,
as compared with 5% presently, in view of its expansion and improvement
(para. 2.30).
2.42      Assuming that higher education enrollment would remain at about
2,500 students and that the on-going MNE policy of reducing fellowships
would result in only 30% of the above enrollment receiving stipends, higher
education would require a share of about 20% of the MNE recurrent budget by
the late 1980s.
2.43      Therefore, an appropriate expenditure pattern for the foreseeable
future could be about 50% for primary and non-formal, 30% for secondary and
20% for higher education, including administration costs at each level.
This distribution would enable the system to reach an 80% primary age-group
enrollment ratio, an enrollment of about 25,000 students in secondary
education under the MNE and other ministries, and higher education enroll-
ments stabilized at about 2,500 in 1990. These desirable targets can be
reached provided the major cost saving measures already decided by Govern-
ment, are implemented, namely double-shifting at the primary level, phasing
out secondary school boarding, increasing secondary education fees and
limiting university fellowships.



- 17 -
Summary
2.44      In summary, the major issues in the education sector have been:
(a) exceptionally low enrollment ratios in primary and secondary education
and insufficient non-formal basic education and training facilities for
adults and unschooled primary leavers; (b) imbalanced distribution of
schools over the country resulting in inequitable access to education; (c)
difficulty in controlling students flux throughout the system resulting in
a trend to expand senior secondary and higher education at the expense of
lower levels, and in overly restrictive admission to junior secondary
education detrimental to further middle level skill training; (d) low
efficiency of the system because of underqualified primary and junior
secondary teachers, insufficient teaching aids, and inadequate curricula;
and (e) a rather high share of Government expenditures on education, given
the country's financial constraints.
2.45      To resolve the above issues, the Government has engaged on a
comprehensive reform of the education system to improve its efficiency,
equity and quality. A set of measures, which have been discussed with the
Bank Group and are in lîne with its policy, are being implemented with
variable degrees of success: (a) A number of these measures are being
smoothly implemented in their initial stage, namely the expansion of basic
(formal primary and non-formal), junior secondary and technical education;
double shifting in primary schools, to maximize the utilization of
facîlities and staff; automatic promotion, to reduce repetition; the reor-
ganization of secondary education, with a view to providing all regions
with general secondary and primary teacher training facilities; the reform
of primary teacher training; and the implementation of a new junior secon-
dary teacher training program, to replace unqualified teachers in secondary
schools. The First and Second Education Projects are assisting with the
expansion of basic and technical education and the proposed Third Education
Project would assist in further expanding and improving basic and junior
secondary education, and primary teacher training. (b) The distribution of
new basic education facilities in anderprivileged areas is efficiently
implemented under the First Education Project and further efforts in this
respect would be made under the proposed Third Education Project. A com-
prehensive school mapping exercise, to rationalize educational development
at large, is planned to be undertaken shortly with bilateral assistance
under the proposed Third Education Project. (c) The examination and orien-
tation system, combined with a tighter screening of university entrants and
limitation of fellowships, has resulted in the reduction of higher educa-
tion enrollments and in the stabilization of senior secondary enrollments,
as required. (d) New curricula relevant to the local environment and
preparing students for productive life rather than for the next academic
level, and related teaching aids have been developed under the First Educa-
tion Project.  However, the new curricula are generally not properly taught
by the existing inadequately trained teachers. As for teaching aids, their
production has been insufficient and their distribution has been deficient.
The above issues are expected to be resolved through the expansion and
improvement of teaching aid production and distribution ander the proposed
Third Education Project and when the practically-oriented teachers, to be



- 18 -
trained under this project, come on stream. (e) The introduction of ade-
quate programs into MNE non-formal basic education and training centers,
focussing on personal skills improvement and gainful self-employment, would
be assisted by the proposed Third Education Project which would also expand
efficient non-formal Social Centers under the MSA. (f) A set of cost
saving measures have been taken by Governnent, namely phasing out secondary
school boarding progressively, doubling secondary school fees, selling
textbooks produced by the MNE and local communities contribution to con-
struction and maintenance of primary schools. However, secondary school
boarding cannot be effective as long as the reorganization of secondary
education is not fully implemented and secondary schools are still
non-existent in certain parts of the country. The Third Education Project
would assist the Government in accelerating the process by establishing new
junior secondary schools without boarding in areas so far deprived of such
schools. As for the contribution of local communities to primary school
construction and upkeep, present results are encouraging despite some
difficulty in planning and controlling local initiatives. The PIU, follow-
ing the above school mapping exercise, will play a major role in this
respect.
III. BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE AND LENDING STRATEGY IN THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Role of the Bank Group in Education and Training in Burundi
3.01      So far two education projects have been financed:  The First
Education Project (Credit 679-BU of April 28, 1977) was fully disbursed
by its original March 31, 1983 Closing Date. Total project cosQ was
estimated at $12.5 million of which $10.0 million aie under IDA financing.
The Second Education Project (Credit 976-BU of April 23, 1980), estimated
at $18.0 million of which $15.0 million are under IDA financing, became
effective on July 21, 1980.
3.02      Both projects were designed to assist the Government in
implementing and assessing its educational reform in two particularly
critical sub-sectors, namely primary and technical education: The objec-
tive of the First Education Project was to assist with the introduction of
the reform into primary education (para. 2.09) and expand the capacity of
Government primary schools to benefit areas disadvantaged in terms of
access to primary education. The project included (a) construction and
equipping of 100 MLCs and the PSTTC (para. 2.22); (b) expansion of the MNE
printshop and provision of paper, vehicles and storage facilities; (c)
provision of technical assistance for the BER and the Project Implementa-
tion Unit (PIU); and (d) financing operating costs for project administra-
tion. A project completion report has yet to be prepared.
3.03      The objective of the Second Education Project was to assist with
the implementation of the reform of technical education (paras. 2.30) and
the training of middle-level technicians and skilled workers in industrial



- 19 -
and tertiary sector trades. It also aimed at strengthening the WMNEs
planning, supervisory and project implementation services. The project
included: (a) the construction and equipping of (i) two technical schools
for skilled workers and technicians in construction trades and public
works, and (ii) two new departments in existing schools for technicians in
mechanics and drawing, and typists and book-keepers; (b) provision of
technical assistance and logistical support to the schools, the Planning
Unit of the MNE, BEPES, BEET, the secondary education inspectorate and the
PIU; and (c) financing of pre-investment studies on vocational training and
basic education, and operating costs for project implementation. During
the preparation and implementation of the projects, discussions took place
with the Government to review such major problems as those indicated in
paragraph 2.44. As a result of this dialogue, several aspects of Burundi's
present education policies were introduced by Government to achieve a more
efficient and equitable education system, namely those referred to in
paragraph 2.45.
3.04      The PIU is in charge of the implementation of both projects.  The
PIU is adequately staffed and is one of the most efficient project units in
the region, not only for construction work but also for its role in locat-
ing the new schools to be built wîth view to redressing imbalances in the
distribution of educational opportunities over the country. The PIU is
carrying out the construction program of both projects under force account
procedures. Approximately US$1.6 million were invested under the First and
Second Education Projects to establish the PIU's force account capacity.
It was necessary to establish this departmental force in May 1978, when it
was found that local building contractors and religious missions were not
in a position to build the MLCs, as originally anticipated (para. 3.07):
The local construction industry was not equipped to implement the highly
dispersed construction program efficiently and the religious missions could
not be commissioned by Government to carry out the works. Difficulties
were encountered again in 1981 under the Second Project. ICB for construc-
tion of two technical secondary schools, representing about 65% of the
project civil works component, failed because of high bids, long construc-
tion periods, and financial, managerial and/or technical unreliability of
bidders. After consultation with the Bank Group, the PIU was charged with
the execution of the works under force account procedures (para. 3.06).
The PIU sub-contracted to private firms the provision of local materials,
materials transportation, plumbing and electrical installation. Imported
materials were bulk procured by the PIU at the inception of the projects
through ICB or local competitive bidding, which has also proven to be an
economical and efficient procedure. The comprehensive costs of the works,
including overhead, have been lower by 35% to 40% than private contractors
prices for a similar quality of work, and construction has been completed
in less time than estimated at appraisal. Among the reasons for private
contractors' high bid prices are the dispersion of the works and the safety
margin that bidders add for the perceived risk of operating in Burundi such
as transport delays and supply stoppages.



- 20 -
3.05      The First Education Project started satisfactorily.  However, in
1978/79 construction works stopped completely foi nine months because of an
interruption in the supply of cement due to the Uganda-Tanzania conflict.
Then, the construction program resumed normally but the price of cement
increased from US$120 per ton at appraisal in 1977 to about $300 in 1980.
For the above reasons and because of higher inflation than originally
anticipated, and the enlargement in the scope of some works, requested by
Government, the project encountered cost overruns estimated at $4.0 million
dollars. As no complementary financing was available, only 50 of the 100
MLCs originally planned will be built under the First Education Project,
in addition to the other components already completed. Certain equipment
and materials bulk procured at the start of the project and technical
assistance services which were no longer needed for the MLCs were used to
start building the Second Education Project schools. This resulted in an
underrun of about US$1.0 million under the second project.
3.06      The implementation of the Second Education Project has been far
smoother as the PIU is now experienced and fully operational.  Of the two
new departments (para. 3.03), scheduled to be implemented under force
account by the PIU departmental force, one has already been completed on
schedule and the other, two years ahead of schedule.  As for the other two
major schools, to be built under ICB originally, they are likely to be
completed by September 1983, as scheduled, although work inception was
delayed by eight months pending decision to implement construction also
under force account after bids were found unsatisfactory. As the cost of
the project is expected to be lower than estimated because of early comple-
tion of works and because of the use of the First Education Project resour-
ces (para. 3.05), the Development Credit Agreement was amended to allow for
the construction and equipping of 25 of the 50 MLCs which could not be
financed under the first project, and for the maintenance and improvement
of about five secondary schools.
Lessons Learned
3.07      The establishment of a self-sufficient construction departmental
force under a competent PIU operating under force account procedures
appears to be the most adequate and economical solution (para. 3.04) under
the difficult circumstances prevailing in Burundi due to its location 1,500
kms. from the nearest seaport, the erratic supply of building materials,
its relatively small and dispersed projects, its cost-wise and time-wise
inefficient local construction industry, and unreliable initiatives of
local communities.
3.08      Insufficient attention has been paid to: (a) involving local
populations in the reform of education and explaining the meaning of
project schools for rural communities (para. 2.18); and (b) the planning
and evaluation of the implementation of the reform. These aspects are
being closely monitored by Bank Group missions.



- 21 -
Bank Group Strategy for Future Projects
3.09      A continuous dialogue with Governnent on the development of the
education sector and related policies has resulted in significant decisions
and achievements (para. 2.45). The above dialogue has also been advan-
tageous for project preparation. As the socio-economic problems which
education raises in Burundi require long-term sectoral action, the dialogue
should remain an essential part of the Bank Group's strategy with a view to
furthering the efforts already made towards a more efficient, equitable and
economical system. Therefore, discussions with Government should be con-
tinued on the followîng interrelated major issues: distribution of educa-
tional facilities over the country; non-formal versus formal education;
long-term educational planning in relation to employment; the examination
policy; further reform of the structure and contents of education towards
more self-contained programs at the various levels; financial policies
including cost-recovery measures; and cooperation with private education
and community self-help programs.
3.10      After implementation of the proposed Third Education Project,
assistance to the sector should expand the actions initiated under the
previous education projects and focus on: (a) expansion and improvement of
semi-skilled and skilled staff training, following the completion of the
on-going in-depth study of manpower and training needs (para. 1.06); (b)
further expansion of primary education and functional literacy programs for
adults and unschooled primary leavers, following comprehensive school
mapping, to improve the distribution of educational facilities over the
country and reach universal basic education in the second half of the 1990s
(para. 2.40); (c) improvement of secondary schools (para. 2.25) and expan-
sion of junior secondary education; (d) assistance to teaching/learning aid
production and distribution; and (e) technical assistance to educational
planning, evaluation and project implementation. Also, the coverage of
educational opportunities could be improved through the expansion of educa-
tional radio programs when the new generation of teachers (para. 2.28)
comes on stream. The above could be the basis for future education
projects.
3.11      As a good general information base on the sector is available,
sector work should give priority to updating this base, and specific
studies relating to the impact of double shifting and automatic promotion,
improvement of internal efficiency, examination objectives and contents
and selection processes, cost effectivenes, and training provided by other
ministries than the MNE.
3.12      Coordination with other Donors. Other donors, notably UNDP and
UN specialized agencies, Belgium, France, and FED are likely to continue to
provide assistance to education. The African Development Fund (AfDF) is
also considering a project to assist with the development of secondary
education: Preliminary discussions have confirmed that AfDF would provide
about US$11.0 million equivalent under its FY1984 lending program starting
in January 1984, to finance (a) construction, furnishing and equipping of
(i) five primary teacher training institutes, each including a junior



- 22 -
secondary school and a Multiparpose Learning Center; and (ii) three junior
secondary schools; and (b) assistance to the PIU including about six
man-years of architects services and operating costs financing. The total
cost of the proposed project (as appraised by the Bank-Group) would be
about US$12.5 million. AfDF financing would be parallel to that of the
proposed Third Education Project and both projects would be complementary
and would be implemented according to similar construction and education
standards. However, each project would be justified on its own merits and
could be implemented independently. Coordination between the AfDF and the
Bank Group is expected to continue during the implementation of the two
complementary projects.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Composition
4.01      The project would assist Government in (a) expanding general
education to raise the low primary and secondary enrollment ratios (para.
2.04), and (b) further implementing the reform of education. Therefore, it
would (i) establish new MLCs in communes where they do not yet exist and in
deprived rural areas where the primary enrollment ratio is below the
national average, to increase the equity of basic education opportunities;
(ii) expand and improve primary teacher training, to implement the reform
more efficiently than in the past; (iii) expand junior secondary education
to complement the reorganization of secondary education with a view to
improving the distribution of facilities over the country, phasing out
boarding progressively and providing a more adequate general education base
for middle level manpower training programs; (iv) expand non-formal rural
education and training, to reduce illiteracy and provide an educational
follow-up to primary leavers and new literates; (v) assist teach-
ing/learning aid production and distribution which, together with qualified
teachers, are the major factors for the success of the reform; and (vi)
provide technical and logistical assistance to key ministerial services.
Specifically, the,project would provide: (a) 24 Multipurpose Learning
Centers; (b) two Primary Teacher Training Institutes including Junior
Secondary Schools; (c) four Junior Secondary Schools; and (d) 20 rural
Social Centers; (e) materials and equipment for teaching aid production;
and (f) provision of vehicles, equipment and specialists services for
project implementation, educational planning and teacher training.
Multipurpose Learning Centers (MLC)
4.02      The 24 MLCs would provide a total of 5,760 new student places
and would include six-classroom units offering a full primary course to
480 students each, i.e. 11,520 students in the 24 MLCs, on a double shift
basis. The MLCs would also provide literacy and multipurpose rural skill
training in home economics, agriculture/animal husbandry, masonry and
woodwork to about 1,500 adults and out-of-school youths enrolled in MSA



- 23 -
social animation courses (para. 2.24) as well as in MNE non-formal programs
(para. 2.22). Sixteen MLCs would be located in communes with a primary
enrollment ratio ranging from 10% to 20%. The remaining eight would serve
communes with a ratio below the national average of about 30%. The
proposed location of the MLCs follows the recommendations of the consultant
who was involved in the location of the First Education Project MLCs.
Together with the First Education Project and the on-going Urban Project,
the proposed project would establish at least one MLC in 70 of the 79
communes of Burundi. The remaining nine communes have high primary enroll-
ment ratios which allow for selected existing schools to be converted into
MLCs by adding multiparpose workshops at a later stage.
4.03      Only the two MLCs to be used as practice schools for the new
project TTIs would be provided with multipurpose workshops in which the new
D6 teacher trainees (para. 2.28) would be introduced to practical skills.
In the other 22 MLCs, only home-economics workshops would be built, as
their use for MSA and MNE programs, and the experience of the First Educa-
tion Project ensure that they will be fully utilized. The construction of
woodwork/masonry workshops has not been included in the project pending the
review of their utilization and objectives, and better coordination with
rural development projects and marketing outlets for their production
(para. 2.22). Moreover, the reduction of the primary curriculum due to the
introduction of double shifting will minimize the utilization of these
workshops by primary students. However, project MLCs would be provided
with multipurpose equipment and related storage facilities as agriculture,
masonry and carpentry could be taught in the open or in simple structures
to be built by the adult trainees themselves.
4.04      The First Education Project has demonstrated that: (a) To ensure
successful operation of the MLCs, local communities and authorities should
be involved in their utilization and management and (b) the operations of a
number of MLCs were limited by the lack of water. Furthermore, the intro-
duction of double shifting will require 80 7-year old entrants to be
admitted annually into each school. The Government has provided an
assurance that the MLCs would be located in areas where (a) they are
requested by the local authorities; (b) there is no competition with exist-
ing schools; (c) a sufficient number of prospective entrants live within
acceptable walking distance (radius of five kilometers) to ensure double
shifting (80 admissions to each school annually); and (d) there is an
adequate source of water in the vicinity (para. 8.01a i).
Teacher Training Institutes (TTI)
4.05      The two project TTIs, together with the five TTIs under proposed
AfDF financing and the six existing TTIs selected to train the new D6
teachers, would assist in regionalizing primary teacher training and
upgrading and would ensure a sufficient supply of primary teachers in every



- 24 -
region of the country to cope with the intended development of the educa-
tion system (para. 2.39).(14) However, until 1988 when D6 teachers are
expected to start graduating from all of the new TTIs, it will be necessary
to keep existing D4 and D7 TTIs in operation and tailor their output to the
requirements of primary education expansion (paras. 2.38 and 2.40). These
TTIs will then be converted into secondary schools, in the framework of
the reorganization of secondary education (para. 2.26), as soon as they can
be replaced by the new facilities.
4.06      The project TTIs would include (a) a junior secondary school
(JSS) with an enrollment of 320 per school (i.e. 640 and 1,600 students,
respectively, in the two Bank Group and five AfDF-financed TTIs) and (b) a
two-yeai teacher training program with an.enrollment of 160 per school
(i.e. 320 and 800 trainees, respectively, in the Bank Group and AfDF
project TTIs). The juxtaposition of the two levels of education within the
same facilities is expected to ensure an adequate supply of teacher
trainees as JSS leavers are likely to prefer staying within the same.high
quality school as teacher trainees than being oriented to another school.
All teacher trainees would be boarders. Following the reorganization of
secondary education and the completion of the proposed Third Education
Project and AfDF project, the number of primary teacher trainees will be
relatively small as compared with total secondary enrollments under the MNE
(about 1,500 out of 23,000). The boarding expenditures relating to these
teacher trainees will repiesent about 1.0% of total MNE recurient expendi-
tures. This minimal amount will by fai be offset by the pedagogical
advantages drawn from boarding which would make teacher training more
attractive through better living and learning conditions, as required.
4.07      The new D-6 training program includes 36 periods per week, and
manual skills, agriculture and home economics are taught to boys and girls
indiscriminately. Thus, future D6 teachers will be better trained than the
present D4s to teach the reformed curriculum among rural communities, and
the additional year of training, as compared with D4s, will result in a
higher status and more attractive pay. Moreover, six years of secondary
level education will not enable the graduates to join the University and
avoid primary school teaching upon completion of their training course,
as D7s presently do.  However, further education should be made available
to those who qualify, after they have completed at least five years of
primary school teaching.
4.08      A sufficient supply of teacher trainers is ensured by the Univer-
sity and the PSTTC. However, the most experienced teachers and PSTTC
instructors should be appointed to the TTIs by priority to ensure the high
14. The annual output of the two project TTIs and the five AfDF-financed
TTIs would be about 160 and 400 new teachers, respectively. These numbers
would be complemented, as required, by the output of the above six existing
TTIs (up to 360 p.a.).



- 25 -
quality of training required in this critical sub-sector, after appropriate
upgrading and orientation. This would aim at establishing a new corps of
highly experienced teacher trainers to teach the training programs within
the TTIs. The Government has provided an assurance that (a) a specialized
corps of about 70 teacher trainers would be established by September 1,
1985 to constitute the teaching staff of TTIs; and (b) this corps would be
recruited among the most experienced general and practical subject teachers
following satisfactory completion of a specific upgrading program to be
developed and implemented by the BER, the BEPES and the Secondary Education
Inspectorate. This program would be submitted to the Association for its
review and comment by June 30, 1984 and would be introduced by September
30, 1984 (para. 8.01a ii).
Junior Secondary Schools (JSS)
4.09      The four project JSSs would provide 320 student places each, i.e.
a total of 1,280 and 960 places, respectively, in the four Bank Group and
three AfDF-financed schools. This, together with the 3,360 places in Bank
Group and AfDF-financed TTIs, would add a total of 5,600 places to the
existing general secondary education and teacher training system, of which
1,120 places would be in first year (Grade 7). Although, with a total of
about 24,000 students in MNE and other ministries schools, the secondary
enrollment ratio would still remain low (3.4% in 1981 terms), the above
increase would result in secondary education being more in conformity with
estimated manpower training needs, reasonable social demand, and teachers
availability.(15)
4.10      The other major objective is to distribute secondary schools over
the 18 districts of the country so that boarding can be progressively
phased out. As the average diameter of most districts is about 40 kms. and
in view of the hilly configuration of Burundi, it might prove difficult to
feed each school with 80 qualified new entrants p.a., all recruited within
an acceptable walking distance, unless the schools are adequately located.
An accurate school mapping exercise was recently completed and demonstrated
in a manner satisfactory to the Association, that the entire enrollment of
the six project secondary schools (para. 4.06 and 4.09) could be recruited
at all times within an acceptable radius of about eight kilometers.
Social Centers (SC)
4.11      The extension of 18 centers and the establishment of two new
centers (para. 2.24) would provide 2,400 student places for rural youths
and adults, mostly women.(16) This would represent a 33% increase, as compared
with the present total enrollment of Social Centers. This would substan-
15. The secondary student:teacher ratio is a low 16:1.
16. Each of the 20 centers would include three 40-student classes.



- 26 -
tially expand the educational and training opportunities for illiterate
youths and primary school leavers and would assist in increasing adult
participation. The centers would be located in rural areas where local
populations and authorities have specifically requested them and where the
programs have already been popular and successful in the past. A number of
these centers would also operate as crafts production units in areas where
marketing outlets can absorb the production. These production units would
provide upgrading and employment opportunities to graduates from the train-
ing course, in textile dying and printing, cotton weaving, tailoring,
market gardening, animal breeding, masonry and woodwork.
4.12      The existing proportion of female enrollment (68%) is expected
to prevail although the recent expansion of masonry and woodwork may
slightly increase male enrollment. The 2:1 literate:illiterate ratio in
existing centers is expected to rise in project centers, as primary school
output will increase following the introduction of double shifting. Twelve
centers would be located in communes in which primary enrollment ratios are
below 20%; another six would serve communes below the average national 30%
ratio; and the remaining two centers would operate in communes in which,
although enrollment ratios are above the national average, such centers are
justified by the increasing demand for non-formal education and exception-
ally good prospects for production marketing.
4.13      No difficulty is anticipated in recruiting the 23 additional
general education, and social and domestic science teachers required among
the graduates from the Social Worker Training Schools and TTIs. As for the
seven masonry and woodwork instructors needed, they would be recruited
among semi-skilled workers whose standards could suffice to teach introduc-
tory skills, or among the most qualified graduates from the Social Centers
themselves. The latter source could also provide practical subject
instructors for the MLC workshops in the near future.
Teaching/Learning Aid Production and Distribution
4.14      The project would provide (a) 200 tons of paper and printing
materials, to produce about 800,000 students' textbooks and about 120,000
teachers' guides and related literature; (b) complementary printing equip-
ment to rationalize and improve the output of the printshop; and (c)
vehicles, to deliver the teaching aids to the schools.
4.15      This would cover the needs for teachers' guides (54 titles) for
the estimated 2,800 new teachers needed by the late 1980s, and the reprint
of textbooks (23 titles) in the national language needed by the mid 1980s
in all primary schools. This would continue the production program started
under the First Education Project (para. 2.20). The project inputs would
be complemented by those of UNDP, Unicef and France (about 120 tons of
paper and printing materials) which would cover the needs for teacher
training manuals, literacy textbooks, class-room teaching materials and



- 27 -
production of new books for French, practical subjects and rural community
development teaching.
4.16       The management of the printshop has added a substantial burden
to the already heavy workload of the BER. This has resulted in planning
and managerial deficiencies detrimental to the production and distribution
of textbooks (para. 2.20). Therefore, the Government will dissociate the
teaching aid production unit (Annex 1, C-4) from the BER and make it an
autonomous administrative unit assisted by the PIU. Thus teaching aid
production and distribution would benefit from the high quality and
efficiency of PIU management with particular regard to financial account-
ancy, procurement procedures and means of transportation in rural areas.
However, this could result in difficult coordination between textbook
development which will remain under the BER and textbook production by the
Printshop. Therefore, the Government has provided an assurance that a
teaching/learning aid production plan, satisfactory to the Association, to
be agreed upon by both developers (BER) and producers (Printshop), would be
established annually under the authority of the Minister of National Educa-
tion, and would be presented to the Association for comments by July 1 each
year, starting from July 1, 1983 (para. 8.01a iii). In addition, the
establishment of the BER printshop as an autonomous administrative unit
(with a separate line of credit in the MNE budget), under the direct
authority of the Minister of National Education, would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness (para. 8.02a).
Technical Assistance
4.17      Out of a total of 29 man/years of specialists  services required,
19 would be allocated to the PIU (para. 5.02) and 10 to MNE services as
follows: (a) four man-years for two teacher training specialists, to
assist the BER with the implementation of the new D-6 teacher training and
upgrading programs (para. 2.28); (b) three-man years for the
newly-appointed printshop manager;(17) (c) two man-years for one or two
specialists in rural women's education and training; and (d) one man-year
for high caliber consultancies in evaluation and educational planning, to
assist the Planning Office in carrying out the comprehensive school mapping
exercise referred to in paragraph 2.08 within a reasonable time frame.(18)
The project would also provide the equipment, materials and operating
17. The Unesco contracts of the present teacher training specialists came
to an end on December 31, 1982 and that of the printshop manager will
terminate on May 31, 1983, respectively. As the Third Education Project is
expected to become effective by July 1, 1983, UNDP has agreed to continue
to finance their services until the credit effective date.
18. This would be over and above the external technical assistance required
for the specific school mapping exercise relating to project schools (para.
4.10), which was implemented with Canadian assistance.



- 28 -
budget, estimated at a total of $100,000, required by the Planning Office
to carry out the above exercise. The Government has provided an assurance
that the results and recommendations of the country-wide school mapping
exercise would be submitted to the Association for its review and comment
by June 30, 1985 at the latest and that these recommendations would be
promptly implemented taking into account the Association's comments (para.
8.Ola iv).
4.18       The technical assistance program would also include 36
man/months of fellowships, i.e. nine man-months for each of the key
printshop technical staff, namely one maintenance mechanic, one textbook
designer, one production manager and one photo compositor. The Government
has provided an assurance that the four above national technicians would be
appointed by September 30, 1983 at the latest with a bond to serve in the
MNE printshop for at least five years following completion of their fellow-
ships (para. 8.01a v). In addition, as soon as adequately qualified
nationals are available, the PIU is prepared to recruit them to take,over
the positions presently filled by expatriates, following successful comple-
tion of a probation period.
Female Participation in the Project and in the Education Sector
4.19      About 40% to 50% of enrollments in project MLCs, TTIs and JSSs
would be girls and most of the students within SCs would be women. This
would increase girls share in education which is already substantial in
the local context with 39%, 32% and 24%, respectively, in formal primary,
secondary and higher education. In non-formal education, about half of the
310,000 children and adults attending Yagamukama programs (para. 2.21), and
70% of SC enrollments and almost all of the 30,000 students enrolled in
Social Animation Centers (para. 2.24) are females. About half of primary
teachers and a third of secondary teaching and administrative staff are
women.
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
Project Cost
5.01       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$19.3 million
equivalent including duties and taxes estimated at US$0.7 million. The
estimated costs and foreign exchange components are given in Annex 1, T-12
and 13, and summarized below:



- 29 -
FBU (Millions)             US$ (Millions)
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total    %
I.  Civil Works, Furniture 1/
Equipment & Vehicles
1.  Multipurpose Learning          101       219       320       1.13   2.44      3.57   25
Centers (24)
2.  Teacher Training                 67      145       212       0.74   1.61      2.35   16
Institutes (2)
3.  Junior Secondary                 48      109       157       0.54   1.21      1.75   12
Schools (4)
4.  Social Centers (20)              61      142       203       0.67   1.59      2.26   16
II. Teaching Aid Production 2/        4      172       176       0.04   1.91      1.95   13
III.Project Administration 2/        61      179       240       0.68   1.99      2.67   18
Base Cost (January 1, 1983)  342         966    1,308       3.80  10.75    14.55  100
(Total I-III)
IV. Contingencies
1.  Physical (8%)                   34         66      100       0.37    0.73      1.10
2.  Price (23%)                     87        241      328       0.97    2.68      3.65
Sub-Total IV                   121        307      428      1.34    3.41       4.75
Total Project Cost             463      1,273   1,736        5.14   14.16    19.30
(I-IV)
Of which taxes                (64)       -         (64)    (0.70)    -        (0.70)
1/ includes professional services (architectural/engineering).
2/  includes technical assistance.
5.02       Cost estimates for civil works, furniture, equipment and
vehicles were reviewed in consultation with the staff of the MNE and the
PIU, and were found acceptable. They have been derived from recent cost
data of similar items in the ongoing First and Second Education Projects
and other similar projects in Burundi. Adjustments have been made to
reflect the reduction of master lists of furniture and equipment to the



- 30 -
essential, the simplification of existing building designs and construction
techniques, and the maximized use of local construction materials.
However, building materials such as cement and steel would have to be
imported. Area allocation for student places would be economical, namely
about 1.30 to 1.50 sq.ms. for primary and secondary classrooms, 3.25 sq.ms.
for laboratories and 2.60 to 5.00 sq.ms. for workshops. Utilization rates
of facilities would be high, namely 75% to 80% for classrooms and
laboratories. Construction base costs per sq.m. (as of January 1983) range
from US$180 for primary schools to US$280 for secondary schools (Appendix
I). Considering the high cost of imported materials (para. 5.05), these
figures compare well with the 1981 cost of similar schools in such other
Eastern African countries as Kenya (US$330/400), Lesotho (US$330), Malawi
(US$390), and Zambia (US$320/530). With regard to the 29 man-years of
expatriate specialists' services (para. 4.17), the cost of a man-year has
been estimated at US$65,000 (about US$5,400 per month) for the six PIU
specialists (para. 6.02), on the basis of updated actual private contract
costs under the two ongoing education projects. The cost figure includes
travel and housing allowances and compares well with the UN rate for
similar services. This rate (US$105,000 p.a. or 8,750 per month) was only
applied to the specialists to serve in ministerial services, as they are
likely to be recruited through UN or similar agencies. The costs of the 3
man/years of fellowships (para. 4.18) have been computed on the basis of an
all-inclusive US$25,000 per fellowship/year.
5.03       Duties and Taxes.  All items specifically imported for the
project would be exempt from customs duties and taxes in accordance with
the normal practice of the Government. It is expected that some of the
building materials to be used in the construction of project institutions
and some furniture of foreign origin would be acquired on the local market..
It is estimated that customs duties and/or taxes levied on these items
would amount to about US$450,000 equivalent. Inland transportation of
building materials estimated at US$1.4 million would include taxes for
gasoline. As for labor costs, they would include a tax component of 5-10%.
The total tax is estimated at about US$700,000 equivalent.
5.04       Contingency Allowances. For physical contingencies, 10% has been
added to the base costs except for equipment (5%) and technical assistance
(nil). Estimated price increases from the base cost date (January 1, 1983)
have been applied in accordance with the implementation schedule (Annex 1,
C-5) at the following annual rates:
1983      1984      1985      1986       1987
Local        15.0%      15.0%     12.0%     12.0%     12.0%
Foreign       8.0%       7.5%      7.0%      6.0%      6.0%
Estimated price increases have been reviewed by Bank Group staff and have
been found satisfactory. For construction, recent trends in the construc-
tion industry, confirmed by the Ministry of Public Works and the PIU, have
been taken into consideration. For furniture and equipment, the estimates



- 31 -
reflect the experience of the First and Second Education Projects and
information obtained from ministries involved in education and training,
and educational equipment suppliers. As for technical assistance, the
estimates are based upon information provided by the PIU, and multilateral
and bilateral agencies involved in assistance to Butundi. Total price
increases are estimated at 23% of the base cost plus physical contingen-
cies.
5.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  This component has been calculated
as follows: (a) construction and site development, 65%; (b) furniture,
75%; (c) equipment and vehicles, 95%; (d) technical assistance, 100%; (e)
professional services, 80%; and (f) project administration, 30%. Including
contingencies, the foreign exchange component is estimated at US$14.2
million or 73% of the total project cost. The foreign exchange component
foi civil works is high as compared to those of non-landlocked Eastern
African countries (despite the simple nature of the buildings proposed)
because of the high dependence on imported materials, including cement, and
the extremely high transportation costs due to Burundi's geographic situa-
tion.
Financing Plan
5.06      The financing plan provides for IDA assistance of US$15.8 million
equivalent, (85% of total project cost net of taxes), as follows:
US$ million
Category                          Government       IDA          Total
1.  Civil works                             1.15         6.80          7.95  1/
2.  Furniture                               0.12        0.80          0.92
3.  Equipment and Vehicles                  0.11         2.20          2.31
4.  Technical assistance                    0.05         2.32         2.37
5.  Professional services                   0.01         0.06          0.07
6.  Project administration                  0.46        0.47          0.93
7.  Contingencies                           1.60         3.15         4.75  2/
TOTAL                          3.50        15.80         19.30
of which taxes                 0.70           -           0.70
TOTAL (net of taxes)                   2.80 (15%) 15.80 (85%)  18.60 (100%)
1/ includes cost of local transportation services.
2/  includes special account funds (para. 6.13).



- 32 -
The IDA Credit would finance 100% of foreign expenditures (US$14.2 million)
and US$1.6 million equivalent of local costs. The Government contribution
would be US$3.5 million equivalent (including about US$0.7 million in
taxes) phased over a period of five years with an average contribution of
about US$0.7 million equivalent in any one year. There has been no dif-
ficulty in obtaining the.required Government counterpart fands for the
first two education projects and no difficulty is anticipated regarding the
Third Education Project, as the order of magnitude of the amount required
is the same. Recurrent costs generated by the project, when it is fully
operational, are estimated at US$1.1 million equivalent annually and would
represent about 4.0% of the 1982 recurrent budget of the MNE based on the
present salary structure and the prevailing shares of the various types of
expenditures, which are not expected to be significantly changed.(19)
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Implementation
6.01      Schedule.  The project would be implemented over a period of
about five years including six months for completion of payments and
withdrawals (Annex 1, C-5). Project completion is expected by December 31,
1987 with a Closing Date of June 30, 1988. The implementation schedule is
realistic and based upon experience derived from both previous education
projects and the advanced stage of project preparation: Preliminary designs
have been completed; equipment and furniture lists, tender documents and
construction specifications developed under the previous projects are being
adjusted to the proposed project; and sites have been selected (para.
6.04).
6.02      Administration. The PIU established within the MNE for the
implementation of the first two education projects, would be responsible
for the administrative and financial control of the project, including
coordination with the various ministries and agencies, liaison with the
Association, and the physical implementation of the major part of the
project under force account procedures. Although the PIU is not expected
to have a future permanent role in construction in view of the development
of a competitive private local construction industry, which is Government s
long-term objective, the private construction industry is not yet ready to
19. The proposed AfDF project (para. 3.12), combined with the IDA-fLianced
Third Education Project, would raise incremental costs to about 7.5% of the
MNE recurrent budget.



- 33 -
implement the construction program proposed under the Third Education
Project (Appendix I) and project school construction through the PIU
departmental force would still be more economical and efficient than using
private contractors (para. 6.06). The PIU is presently staffed on a
full-time basis with a project director, an assistant director (architect),
a procurement officer, an accountant, four architects/engineers and support
staff. The accountant, procurement officer, assistant director and three
architects/engineers in charge of construction supervision, are financed
from funds provided under the Second Education Project. The director, a
Burundi national, is a senior official of the MNE and therefore remunerated
by-the Government. One architect is financed by Belgium under its
bilateral program of assistance to Burundi. About six staff-years of
specialists' services included under the Second Education Project will be
used to pay for the services of the expatriate PIU staff up to January 1,
1984. Thereafter, their services would be financed under the proposed
proiect.  A total of 19 man-years of technical assistance(20) have been
included in the project for the above specialists recruited upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Project accounts for the First
and Second Education Projects are being maintained by the PIU with the
assistance of the expatriate accountant and are in accordance with sound
accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank Group. The
proposed project would continue the financing of the expatriate accountant.
6.03      Professional Services.  Design and supervision of construction of
ail project institutions would be carried out by the PIU. The Unit would
handle all aspects of professional services with the possible exception of
some plumbing and electrical services which would be carried out by con-
sultant engineers, hired on terms and conditions acceptable to the Associa-
tion. The PIU has already completed a substantial project preparation work
(para. 6.01).
6.04      Site Selection.  All sites have been selected with due considera-
tion to agreed site selection criteria, namely location of MLCs and SCs in
communes with a primary enrollment ratio below the national average of
about 30%; no competition with existing schools in the vicinity;
availability of a sufficient number of prospective entrants within walking
distance; local population's and authorities' commitment and availability
of water. These sites will be provided free of cost by Governnent. Con-
firmation of availability of all sites, acceptable to the Bank Group, has
been received from the Government (para. 8.01b).
6.05      The Construction Industry and the PIU.  Burundi's construction
industry is small, weak and overextended.  It is heavily dependent on
direct and indirect imports of materials and components as well as plant
and equipment, skilled manpower and managerial staff. Problems in this
20. Deputy-director, procurement officer and three engineers/architects,
three years each; and accountant, four years.



- 34 -
sector were encountered for the first two education projects and to over-
come the difficulties, the PIU established a departmental force which has
proven to be economical and efficient in carrying out construction work
by force account methods (para. 3.04).
6.06      The situation in the construction industry has not changed since
the previous projects. This was recently demonstrated, inter alia, by the
IDA-financed Urban Project (Credit 1049-BU): There were only three respon-
sive bids for the new schools to be built under the project and the lowest
evaluated bidder's costs were over.55% above those of the PIU. Therefore,
the dependence on the PIU departmental force is likely to continue under
the proposed Third Education Project and it is proposed that the major part
of the civil works component (para. 6.07) be carried out under force
account procedures which provides high assurance of completing the project
on schedule, which is not the case of private companies at any price. In
addition, implementing the project through contractors would result in a
dramatic increase in project costs and introduction of risks, highly
detrimental to the development of education in critical subsectors. About
65% of construction works in the proposed project are medium sized (US$0.4
million to US$1.0 million per school). They are too small to attract
foreign contractors and too large and complex for small domestic contrac-
tors. Moreover, the latter are mainly based in Bujumbura and cannot handle
dispersed construction sites. Foreign contractors not established in
Burundi cannot compete with firms already established for such medium-sized
works. Appendix 1 provides further details supporting the choîce of force
account procedures, as qualified above, in this specific case. However,
construction works below US$250,000 equivalent each, located in the
vicinity of Bujumbura and Gitega, would be subject to local competitive
bidding to provide continued cost comparison and to encourage the par-
ticipation of local private enterprises, particularly those to be assisted
by the on-going Local Construction Industry Project (Credit 1230-BU). The
objective of this project expected to be implemented over the next two
years, is precisely to improve and upgrade the capacity of the domestic
construction firms. In this respect, the PIU would maximize
sub-contracting certain civil works to these firms and would continue to
provide on the job training to site managers and skilled labor, and techni-
cal assistance to subcontractors in construction planning and management.
It would also continue to maximize the use of local materials and local
techniques. Both Bank Group projects would have a mutually-reinforcing
interaction in so far as the PIU would continue to train the skilled per-
sonnel required by the local construction industry and would provide it
with work opportunities, while the Local Construction Industry Project
would assist in developing domestic construction firms which could relieve
the PIU's construction burden in the future.
Procurement
6.07      Civil Works. The cost of civil works is estimated at US$10.8
million equivalent including contingencies. The departmental force of the
PIU would carry out the major part of the construction, estimated at US$9.2



- 35 -
million, (of which about US$5.0 million representing imported construction
materials would be procured by ICB) as the experience of the first two
education projects, inter alia, demonstrates that this method of construc-
tion would be more economical and efficient than using private contractors
(paras. 6.05 and 6.06). However, the construction of about 10 Multipurpose
Learning Centers and Social Centers (estimated at US$1.6 million equiv-
alent, including contingencies), in the vicinity of Bujumbura and Gitega,
would be carried out by local contractors for whom contract awards would be
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, and in accordance
with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group. The PIU would also
continue to sub-contract (by LCB as agreed with the Bank Group) to private
firms most of the materials transportation, provision of local building
materials, plumbing and electrical installation.
6.08      Furniture, equipment and vehicles contracts are estimated at
US$4.2 million including contingencies. Of these, an estimated US$3.3
million would be awarded on the basis of ICB in accordance with the Bank
Group's guidelines for procurement, except for contracts costing less than
US$100,000 equivalent each, which would be awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures
satisfactory to the Bank Group. The aggregate total of such contracts is
not expected to exceed US$0.9 million equivalent.
6.09      Designs, Tender Documents and Equipment Lists.  Sketch designs,
draft tender documents and master lists of furniture, equipment and
vehicles indicating proposed grouping and cost estimates would be reviewed
by the Bank Group. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to
encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement. Review of
tender evaluation documents prior to award would be required only for
contracts above US$250,000 for civil works and US$100,000 equivalent for
furniture, equipment and vehicles. When ICB procedures are used, domestic
manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of
preference of 15% or the existing applicable rate of import duties,
whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers.
6.10      Specialists' and Consultants' Services.  Six specialists,
approved by the Association, already operating under the First and Second
Education Projects, are expected to remain at their duty stations. All
other specialists and consultants would be hired under individual contracts
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank Group in accordance with the
Bank Group's guidelines for the use of consultants (para. 4.17 and 6.02).
Disbursement
6.11      Disbursements (Annex 1, T-14) would be made on the basis of:
(a) 70% of total expenditures for civil works;



- 36 -
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
construction materials, furniture, equipment and
vehicles, or 85% of local expenditures if procured
locally;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures or 80% of local
expenditures for technical assistance (specialists
services) and professional services;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for fellowships; and
(e) 50% of total expenditures for project administration.
6.12      All disbursements (Annex 1, Table 14) would be fully docamented
except for: (a) work executed by the PIU departmental force utilizing force
account methods; and (b) salaries and other operating expenses for project
administration, for which disbursements would be made against a statement
of expenditure, to be signed by the PIU director, documentation of which
would not be submitted for review but would be retained by the Borrower and
made available for inspection by the Association in the course of project
supervision. Based on the previous experience of the First and Second
Education projects, the PIU has demonstrated that it has satisfactory
institutional capacity to use the statement of expenditure procedure. The
cumulative disbursements of 100 percent at the June 30, 1988 Closing Date
compare well with the country average profile of about 80%. A faster
disbursement has been assumed on the basis of the experience with previous
education projects, the advanced stage of project preparation (para. 6.01),
and the availability of existing designs, equipment and furniture lists and
bidding documents.
6.13      Special Account.  In order to ensure that funds for the project
would be made available when needed, a Special Account, operated by the
PIU, would be established in a bank in Burundi with an initial deposit of
US$750,000 equivalent which would be withdrawn from the Credit account
after effectiveness. The account would be replenished on the basis of
documentary evidence, to be provided to the Bank Group by the PIU, of
payments made from the account for goods and services required for the
project. The opening of an account into which the initial amount of the
Special Account would be deposited would be a condition of Credit effec-
tiveness (para. 8.02b).
6.14      In order to ensure that the Government's counterpart funding also
would be available when needed, the Government would establish a separate
Project Advance Account into which it would deposit, at the beginning of
each semester, its share of project costs. Establishing the Project
Advance Account and depositing the initial amount, estimated at about FBU
31.5 million, would be a condition of CredIt effectiveness (para. 8.02c).



- 37 -
6.15      Retroactive Financing.  To ensure a prompt start-up of project
operations, expenditures on civil works, construction materials and equip-
ment, and technical assistance, up to a total of US$1.0 million equivalent,
incurred as from May 1, 1983, would be financed retroactively (para. 8.03).
Reporting and Evaluation
6.16      Semi-annual progress reports on implementation would be submitted
to the Bank Group by the PIU each December and June following Credit effec-
tiveness. The format would be similar to the one agreed upon for the two
previous projects. In addition, Government would prepare and send to the
Association for comments within six months from the Closing Date, a comple-
tion report assessing attainment of project objectives, project implementa-
tion and initial operation, its cost and-the benefits derived, the perfor-
mance of the Government, the Association and other agencies involved, and
the significant lessons learned.
Auditing
6.17      The PIU, a financially autonomous entity under the MNE-s sponsor-
ship, would maintain separate accounts for all project activities in con-
formity with national accounting practices. These accounts would be con-
trolled according to normal Government financial control procedures which
are satisfactory. The PIU would prepare an annual report summarizing the
financial situation of all project operations, which would be submitted to
the Association. Auditing would be required on an annual basis for all
expenditures financed under the project with particular attention to those
reimbursed under statements of expenditures (para. 6.12). Auditing would
be performed by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group, within
six months following the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. The PIU is
currently audited by officials from the Ministry of Finance.
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01      The project would assist Government in improving the quality,
equity, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the education system while
expanding critical education sub-sectors along the lines of the reform of
education. The project would serve deprived rural areas more particularly
and thus have a significant impact on rural development at large, a top
Government priority.
7.02      The expansion of basic education (para. 4.02) would benefit about
13,000 primary school-age children, out-of-school youths and adults every
year. The primary education component would result in an increase of about
7% over the 1980/81 primary enrollments in Burundi. The project would,
above all, increase the coverage of the practical, community-oriented type



- 38 -
of basic education initiated by the reform, and would help increase educa-
tion opportunities in communes where they aie particularly scarce.
7.03     The teacher training component (para. 4.05) would provide 960
additional student places. This, together with the 2,400 student places
under the proposed AfDF project, would help Government to establish an
improved teacher training system in new facilities providing a higher
motivation and status to prospective trainees. This would assist in coping
with primary education expansion and, at the same time, expanding junior
secondary education, with ensured employment opportunities, on a regional-
ized basis. It would also provide the opportunity to establish a new corps
of specialized teacher trainers with a view to giving teacher training a
specific vocational bias as opposed to the former academic secondary educa-
tion orientation.
7.04      The project junior secondary schools (para. 4.09) would benefit
about 1,300 students annually. This, together with the 960 new students
places under proposed AfDF financing, would assist Governnent in increasing
the capacity of secondary education, redistributing it on a district basis
in areas so far deprived of secondary education facilities, and phasing out
costly boarding facilities. Together with the TTIs, this component would
represent an increase of about 12% in secondary school capacity and would
relieve the bottleneek between primary and secondary education (para. 2.26)
by increasing admission to secondary schools by 17%. The above percentages
would be increased to 31% and 40%, respectively, if the proposed AfDF
project is taken into account.
7.05      The project social centers (para. 4.12) would provide about 2,500
rural youths and adults, mostly women, with an opportunity to utilize their.
basic education acquisitions for gainful self-employment or employment in
areas where no or insufficient facilities of this type exist (para. 4.12).
These centers would complement and could provide guidance and instructors
to MLC workshops at a time when their objectives are under review (para.
2.22). This project component would provide an opportunity to Government
to coordinate the activities of two major ministries (MSA and MNE) involved
in nonformal rural education and training with identical objectives and
clienteles, for their matual benefit. It would also encourage the coopera-
tion of private agencies involved in this critical education subsector.
7.06      The teaching/learning aid component (para. 4.15) would benefit
about 3,000 new teachers and all primary schools and would provide an
opportunity to coordinate bilateral and multilateral assistance in this
field mainly through the establishment of an annual production plan.
7.07      The  technical assistance component (para. 4.18) would benefit 74
ministerial officers and technical staff. It would strengthen key minis-
terial services, essential for effective implementation of the reorganiza-
tion and reform of the education system.



- 39 -
Risks
7.08     With regard to the hardware, no major risks are anticipated
provided the project is implemented by the PIU under force account proce-
dures as qualified in paragraph 6.07. A problem which might arise is the
requirement for partial boarding for project secondary schools if the MNE
could not demonstrate that all enrollments can be day-students. The school
mapping exercise is expected to minimize this risk (para. 4.10).
7.09     As for the software, a minor risk may be expected insofar as all
local communities are not likely to be actively involved in the MLC opera-
tions, if sensitization campaigns are not effectively implemented by
Government. However, careful surveys for the location of the MLCs by the
PIU and the MNE Planning Unit and the reduction of the MLC workshop com-
ponent to the essential will minimize the risk. Difficulties may also be
expected in implementing double-shifting in a number of schools in areas
where the population is scarce and automatic promotion may result in a
deterioration of the quality of education as long as teachers are insuffi-
ciently qualified. This might slow down the desirable expansion and
improvement of the education system at large but would not significantly
affect the project.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, the Government:
(a) provided assurances that: (i) the project MLCS would be located
in areas where they are requested by the local authorities;
there is no competition with existing schools; a sufficient
number of prospective entrants live within a radius of about
five kilometers to ensure 80 admissions to each school
annually; and there is an adequate source of water in the vici-
nity (para. 4.04); (ii) a specialized corps of about 70 teacher
trainers would be established by September 1, 1985 to
constitute the teaching staff of TTIs; and this corps
would be recruited among the most experienced general and
practical subject teachers, following satisfactory completion
of a specific upgrading program to be developed and implemented
by the BER, the BEPES and the Secondary Education Inspectorate.
This program would be submitted to the Association for its
review and comment by June 30, 1984 and would be introduced
by September 30, 1984 (para.4.08); (iii) a teaching/learning
aid production plan to be agreed upon by both the BER and
the Printshop would be established annually under the
authority of the Minister of National Education and would be
presented to the Association for comments by July 1, each
year, starting from July 1, 1983 (para. 4.16); (iv) the results
and recommendations of a country-wide school mapping exercise,
would be submitted to the Association for its review and
comment by June 30, 1985 at the latest, and these recommenda-



- 40 -
tions would be promptly implemented taking into account the
Association's comments (para. 4.17); and (v) four national
technicians namely one maintenance mechanics, one textbook
designer, one production manager and one photo compositor,
would be appointed to the MNE printshop by September 30, 1983
at the latest, with a bond to serve in the MNE printshop
for at least five years following completion of their
their fellowships (para. 4.18); and
(b) confirmed that all sites for project institutions, acceptable
to the Bank Group, are available (para. 6.04).
8.02      As conditions of Credit effectiveness, the Government would:
(a) establish the BER printshop as an autonomous administrative
unit (with a separate line of credit in the MNE budget), under the direct
authority of the Minister of National Education (para. 4.16);
(b) open an account into which the initial amount of the revolv-
ing fund would be deposited (para. 6.13); and
(c) establish and fund a Project Advance Account (para. 6.14).
8.03      Expenditures on civil works, construction materials and equip-
ment, and technical assistance, up to a total of US$1.0 million equivalent,
incurred as from May 1, 1983, would be financed retroactively (para. 6.15).
8.04      Subject to the provisions in paras. 8.01 thru 8.03 above, the
proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
SDRs 14.5 million (US$15.8 million equivalent) to the Republic of Burundi.



APPENDIX I
- 41 -                               Page 1 of 4
BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
JUSTIFICATION AND QUALIFICATION OF FORCE ACCOUNT PROCEDURES
Civil works under the Third Education Project would be built
under force account procedures by the PIU for the following reasons:
1.        Burundi's contracting industry is weak and overextended.  It is
largely controlled by foreigners and is not competitive. Seven foreign
contractors have a virtual monopoly for large and technically complex
works of FBU 300 million and above. About 20 smaller mostly domestic
contractors cater for construction jobs of FBU 0.5-25 million. Jobs
between FBU 25 million and FBU 300 million are too small for the large
contractors (because of their overhead cost) and too big and complex for
the smaller domestic contractors, for lack of technical staff (engineers
and accountants) and their weak liquidity situation. Of the 50 project
items, six representing 42% of civil works costs, fall into this category:
four junior secondary schools of FBU 36 million (US$0.4 million) per
school and two teacher training institutes of FBU 90 million (US$1.0
million) per school.
2.        Foreign contractors, not established in Burundi are not expected
to be interested in bidding for construction of the small sized construc-
tion packages in dispersed locations.
3.        The above is demonstrated by the 1981 bidding exercise under the
Second Education Project for two schools estimated at a base cost of $2.8
million and US$2.1 million, respectively. These schools are similar to
the four medium-sized junior secondary schools (JSS) and the two teacher
training institutes (TTI) under the proposed Third Education Project.
Five contractors participated. The two lowest bids were from local firms.
They were rejected on technical and financial grounds.  The firm with the
lowest bid had been several times on the brink of bankruptcy and was
deemed financially incapable of carrying out the work.  The second firm
had only been in business for half a year and was judged technically
unable to do the work. The third and fourth lowest bids were from a
foreign firm already established in Burundi and the fifth and highest bid
was from a foreign firm not yet established in Burundi. The third lowest
bid was rejected because the firm was overextended in a number of on-going
contracts and the remaining two bids (fourth and fifth) were rejected
because they exceeded the PIU cost estimates by 27% and 37%, respectively.
The price revision clause for materials and labor to be included in the
contracts would have added another 20% to 30% to the contract sum. There-
fore, the actual cost would have been 50% to 70% higher than the PIU's
estimate and available funds. The PIU cost estimate included allowances
for construction management, vehicles and equipment. After all bids had
been rejected, the PIU was charged with implementing the project under
force account. The PIU has done a commendable job under the Second Educa-
tion Project in particular: Of the two schools originally scheduled under



APPENDIX I
- 42 -                         Page 2
force account, one was completed on schedule and the other, two years
ahead of schedule; as for the remaining two schools, although the start of
construction was eight months late, because of time-consuming delibera-
tions between the Government and the Bank after the bidding exercise
failed, the PIU will complete the schools on schedule and within funds
available.
4.        With regard to the remaining 44 proposed project schools (24
Multipurpose Learning Centers or MLCs estimated at FBU 12 million each,
and 20 Social Centers or SCs, estimated at FBU 4 million each) the PIU's
force account procedures are recommended because of the dispersed loca-
tions of the above schools and centers. These are similar to those of the
First Education Project (Credit 679-BU) which has been successfully and
economically implemented by the PIU after it was demonstrated that local
construction firms could not do it. Small domestic contractors, who are
mainly based in Bujumbura, are not equipped to handle such dispersed
construction sites. However, since an IDF pilot project (Credit 1230-BU)
is providing Bank Group assistance to local construction contractors to
develop their entrepreneurial and financial capabilities, about ten of the
above construction works close to Bujumbura and Gitega, may be contracted
to such firms following a local bidding exercise scheduled in 1984/85.
5.        Moreover, under the proposed force account procedures, the
following components would be contracted: (a) purchase of building
materials (through LCB for local materials, and ICB or limited interna-
tional competition for imported materials, as appropriate); and (b) a
major portion of inland transportation of materials, and plumbing and
electrical installation for the six bigger construction works (JSSs and
TTIs), through LCB.
6.        The PIU, under the First and Second Education Projects, has
developed into a highly efficient local construction enterprise and has
a permanent work force of about 150 persons, of whom only seven are
expatriates, and a temporary departmental force of about 850 workers. It
provides valuable on the job training as it is well managed administra-
tively, financially and technically. It increasingly delegates building
site-management to its construction site managers including hiring of
workers, inventory control and construction planning. Subsequently,
several former site managers have started small construction businesses of
their own. It also trains bricklayers and carpenters on the job. It has
a highly skilled mobile welding team which does welding work on all PIU
building sites and is one of the best in Burundi.
7.        The PIU has demonstrated interest in the use of local materials
and local construction methods whereas Burandi's building industry depends
more heavily on imported materials, equipment, skilled manpower and
managerial staff. The PIU has revitalized some construction methods
formerly used by missionaires for walling, making extensive use of local
materials such as stones, bricks and clay. The PIU, under the Third
Education Project, would attempt to further reduce dependence on foreign



APPENDIX I
Page 3 of 4
- 43 -
materials and construction methods. More appropriate technologies would
also be used for flooring and roofing, inter alia, by using locally
manufactured floor tiles and roof tiles.
8.        The PIU is not to expand its construction role per se, as it is
not expected to have a future permanent role in construction in view of
the development of a competitive private local construction industry which
is Government's long-term objective. However, the private construction
industry is not yet ready to implement such a school construction program
as proposed in the Third Education Project and the Bank Group-financed
pilot project to assist local construction industry is still in its
infancy. Therefore, the use of force account procedures, under the
prevailing circumstances, is the most economical and efficient method to
carry out the work in the remote rural areas of the country. However,
about 10 schools close to the urban areas would be subject to LCB to
provide continued cost comparison and work opportunities for the domestic
building industry being developed under the IDF local construction
industry pilot project (Credit No. 1230-BU). Moreover, the efficient PIU
work force is the most adequate place to train the skilled personnel
required by the construction industry and it is expected that they will be
available to the private industry as it develops both technically and
financially.
9.        The PIU makes extensive use of subcontracting, for example in
(a) the purchase of local materials such as bricks, stones, and sand; (b)
transportation of materials, (c) specialized jobs such as structural and
electrical engineering and electrical installations. It is in the line of
the PIU's development to expand subcontracting (using LCB) for labor and
construction of small schools to local contractors and to concentrate on
procurement of materials, provision of building equipment and technical
assistance to, and supervision of, its contractors. In addition to new
construction, the PIU is also equipped to undertake maintenance and repair
works.
10.       The cost of construction works executed under PIU force account
procedures compares well with those executed by a contractor as shown in
the table below. Based on the PIU's recent cost figures, construction
costs as of January 1983 are estimated at FBU 16,500 per sq. meter for
simple MLCs and SCs and at FBU 25,000 per square meter for the JSSs and
TTIs. To make the PIU's costs comparable with contractors', these costs
should be increased by about 25% for expatriate services and overhead
cost, on the basis of cost data relating to the first two education
projects. This results in actual respective costs of about FBU 20,000 and
30,000. As for contractors, based on recent cost information, these two
types of schools would cost FBU 30,000 to FBU 45,000 per sq.m.(l) However,
1. A contract cost of 30,000 FBU/sq.meter for MLCs has been assumed,
although it is doubtful contractors would bid on most of them because of
their small size and dispersion.



APPENDIX I
Page 4 of 4
- 44 -
because of contractors' longer building times (two years instead of
1.2-1.5 years for JSS and TTIs and 1.5 years instead of 1 year for other
schools) and cost adjustment clauses included in contracts, the acutal
cost of contracted construction works would be easily 10-20% higher than
the contract sum.
Current Cost Estimates in FBU per sq.m.
A          B                  C            D
By PIU    Contract Sum  Actual Cost  C:A  Ratio
MLCs and SCs                    20,000       30,000           35,000       175%
JSSs and TTIs                   30,000       45,000           50,000       167%



ANNEX I
- 45                                                                          TABLE 1
Page 1 of 2
COIMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
JANDARY 27, 1983
GoEr.RNMNT     |T 
ClEXD IT'URE                                       com LETI ON            RECUkRENT
ON EDUCATION  EDUCATION         ADULT    PRlMARY RATE FCR                 UNIT COST  PROGRESSION SOCONDARY                  ill5IER
CNP PER               AS PERCENT    RECURRENT          ITERACY ENROLL. PRIMIARY              Y P AN    P8RIMARY    jRATE FROM  IEINROLL  sEcoN)ARY ENROLL.
BASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL EXPENDITURES  RATE               MIo   SCHOOL         STLDENTS EDUCATJON      PRIMARY  TO  E410        STUDENTS IRATIO
YEAR HILLS. (LSS)   DEVOrED TO  Ga.E'RNMEiNr   ;ALLOCATED TO:   (t)    (NET)   CYCLE                PER        AS PERCENT SECONDARY    (rFT>        IPF         <CEOSS)
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE   PRI  SEC  RI   (1976)    (;)                (;3      TEACER   CNPICAPITA         (0)     | ()    ITEACHER           (7)
|  (I)  (t)      (3)    !      ~~~      ~     ~~(4)  (       6          7)       (a)         (9),       (O            (I)          12         (3)       14
DEVELOPED COUNTRIES-
AUSTRALIA           80    14.6   8.870         6.3'        1-.6             …    …     …100*        103'       100         21         ---           99           73         13       20.90
CANADA              81    23.7   9.b5Da    7.7a            18.5'?  .   30a? 34'? 238?   99          106X       100         21         19.9'?       100           92'        18       22.60'
CERNANY F.R.        79    61.4  12.220         A.S          9.9'        __   ___  __       ___       89'    ,              ---                     100           94a       ___       12.10
NEThERLANDS         79    14.1  11.084        7.9           5.1         20   35   25       99?       96         95         18         15.3          99           82        13        12.40
NEL. ZEALA"D        80      3.2   6.0E1        5.5'        13.4         37   31   28       99       100        100         24         11.6         100           82         15       25.80"^
SUEDES              79      8.3  12,863       9.0          18.2         31   10   10       99Y       99'       100         18'        19.9         110           79'       10*Y    36.50'Y
EA*STERN AFRICA
BOTSIAOA            80      0.60     720b    6.3P          19.3        48   28   15        35b       94        74          32        22.0           33".         20        18         1.50
=KD5I               Yl      4.2      235      2.8 8        19.0        41   28   77        20        79'        il         37        7-.2           12            98       17         1.<n
COMIOROS            80      0.4b    260       6.5'         25.4         40   28b  14       ___       991        65         45        16.0           58           21x       30         1.40
OJIBOurI            81      0.3      460      5.4          10.8        60   40   ...    10           32        --          41        ---            60            8        19        0.50
ETHIOPIA            80     31.0b     130b    2.2P          11.1a        52   32   14a    15          38        ---         59        18.0           ---           9        41'        5.10
RENYA               79    15.3       390      5.9V         18.0b       71   15   14        45        92        74          40        15.8           41           19        28         1.00
LESOTHO             80      1.3      410P    4.3P          21.0         S1   24   25       52        64        61          49         4.0           64           17        21        0.90
1ADAGASCAa          77      8.5      330      4.0'         24.0         53   28   19       50        94bx      33          55b        8.0           38           14        23        3.10by
11A1AWAI            81      6.lb    23ob    3.5            11.4         38   14   25       25b       62         23         65          5.8          12            4        21         0.40
MAVRITIUS           g0      0.9b  1,080b    6.0            11.5         39   40    7       80        87         78         22b       17.1           79           45X       21         3.40
RWA.NDA             80      5.0b    200b    3.2            21.3        62   17   il        23b       57'       62          40        14.0            6            4'       13        0.40
SEYCHELLES          78    65.0b  1,580b    5.0             12.0        34a  33'  10'    ---          ---       ---         ---       ---            ---          ---       ---      -
SOMALIA             78      3.8      185'     2,0'         11.0        55   10   21        50b       26by      ---         27b       20.4           53b           4b6      16b        1.00
SUDAS               80    20.0b   478b        3.0          --          66   39   ...    32           51a"      68          34         1.4           44           :3        16        ...
SI4AZOLAND          78      0.5      650      7.18         12.2        36   33   18        65b       08bY      49a         35by        7.7          66a          33b6y    22'         2.00
TANZA,NLE           80    18.5       260      5.9          17.7        47   10   16        79b       98b       87          21        11.0           lgb           3        20*       O.oLb
CCANDA              80     12.6b    300b       ---         16.1'        23b  37b  20b    48          54'       61          34        ---            17            5        23        0.60
ASIRE               18    27.5       210*      4.O0        22.0         49   26   25       15        84Y       44          423        ---           41           13'       27         î.îObY
2AY18BA             80      5.7b    566b    4.5P           11.1         48   23   22       44b       95         80         48        12.9           19           16        22         1.50
E19A.NWE            81      7,7b    700b    5.1            19.5        62   32    6        44b       90        55          39        20.o           85           15        23        0.50
bESTERN AFRICA
BENIN               79      3.4b    32'3b    6.S5          35.0        43   21    5    llb           42        30          46        14.0           30           il        43        i.OOY
CAMEROON            78      8.2      5qO      2.9Y         16.0Y        33'  432  20      ---        74V        45'        50Y       11.8'          20-          14Y       26         1.30Y
C.A.R.              79      2.2      280      3.8'Y        20.6aY      ___  ___  __    ---                     -           65aY      --             --                               0.70aY
CHAD                76      4.4      120      2-4bvy       21.7b        --… - _   _      _ 13        25Y       ---         77        ---            --            3xy      21    0    .20Y
CO71GO              78      1.5      670      9.0?ay       27.7aY       _                                                  56by        -            30            -        43by      4.00ay
GABON               77      0.6   3,420        3,7bY        8.4Y       -    -_   __                                        446bY      --            ---          -         196y      2.80ay
5ANBIA              77      0.6      220      3,3"-         6.5b       46   25a   6'   lob           408bY     90*         27bY      44.7'          40           12b.Y     17
CHANA               76    11.3       400      4.0Y         15.5b       -… ___  ___   __              7j1by    ---          27bY 6      --           ---          36bxy    21         __
5UINEA              79      5.3      290P    4,6aP         --          25a  28'  28'   20            34        36          38        20.0aP         85           16        29        7.00a   -
IVORY COAST         Si      8.2b  1,070b   10.0            45.0        33   46   13    30b           60        86          43        26.0           47           15"xy    26         1.90'?Y
LIBERIA             80      1.9      520      4.6          19.6        43   23   24    30            52        32          35        20.0           76           22        20        2.90
6.LLI               77      6,7b     180b    462b          21.7b       45a  37'  18'   10            28bxy      ---        43by      -_-            50*           6x       ---       0.90bY
NALURITANIA         18       .6b     320b    5.5           16.9         33   43   25    1ib          32        60          44        52.0           30            9        21        0.37
NIGER               78      5.2      300      4.3'Y        16.6'Y       52'  43'   5'    8           17         56'        41-       38.7a          40            2        24b       0.20Y
NIGRR78A            77    82.6       910      4.1Y          9.6        --   ---  ---   ---           ---       ---         ---       ---            --           10'Y      25        0.17Y
SENIECAL            77      5.5      450      5.0          23.0        46   34   20    10            36b.y    ---          43by      ---            20           10        21        2.20bY
SIE9RA LEONE        77      3.4      250      4,0b         16.0b 6       --  --    .-   15b          37'         -         35        2560b          84           10a       22        0.60bY
TOCO                78      2.4      400      6.5q9        26.5q        70*  28-  21'   18           74        40          54by      38.0           52           32b'y    48b         1.60bY
UPPER VOLTA         73      5.6      180      3.0*        19.3&y       31   16   32    --           15by       23         53by      52.5?          19            3b8y    25         0.02Y
LATIN A?7ERICA ANC TPE CARIBUEAI
ARGENTISA           IS    27.3   2,210         2,7         10.9         43'  31-  18'   93b          89         52         17        ---            87           31         8       23.00
BAHAMAS             79      0.2   2,770       5.7          19.1         36   36   11    93b          99         97         24        ---            97           75        19       ---
EAR8ADOS            78      0.2   2,680       8.s5"y       22.1'       433  31'  16'   ggb          100IY      g9          27Y       19.9'          99'          18Y       20Y      ---
IOLIV7A            80      5.4      550      4.1'Y        30.5'       --   ---  --   63             74Y       ---         20Y       ---            ---          15Y       ---      1?.60Y
IRAZIL              79   116.5   1,770        '.8           6.2         51   --   14    76           73'y      --          33'Y       4.5b          61.          15iY      14'y    12.62b
CHILE               76    10.9   1,890         3.2bY       13.0b        ---  ---  ---   __          119bry      ---        34by       --- ..-                    55b8y    20bY      11.90by
COLOMBIA            80    26.7b  1,180b       3.3          25.0         35   20   20    81b          78        36          32         6.6           ---          47        20       10.02'?
COSTA RICA          80      2.2b  1,810b    8.4            31.1        40   27   33    90            93        77          33          5.5          77           40        27       14.00
CUBA                78      9.8      ---      8.0          11.0        -__  __   __    96           n12bxy    98           18bY       ---           98           71b.V     15       19.028Y
DOMINICAN REP.    78        '.3    1,030      2.1Y         13.9Y       __   __  ___   67            ---        ---         ---       ---            ---          ---       ---       ---
ECUADOR             80      8.4b  1.110       6.0P         36.7        45   31   16    81           105        ---         36        12.6           86           47        16       29.00
EL SALVADOR         77      4.S      h40      3,4by        23.1by       64    8   27    62           82bxy    32           39        ---            41           26b8y    273y        7.90bY
eUATEIiALA          78      6.8   1,010        1.7&Y       12.6b       ___  ___  __    __            69bxy      ---        35by       ---           69          1ib8y    19by         5.50Y
CUYANA              76      0.8       630      8.1by       13,8by       ___  ___  __    ---          ggbxy    ___          32by       ---            ---         59bxy      ---       3.00bY
HAITI               80      5,0b    230       3.4y          7.9'Y       65    9    6    23b          50         26         41         19.0          62'           4'       27         0.80
HONDURAS            78      3.6      520       3.5by       14.3by       62'  15a  19a   60           89h8y    30'          41by       12.8a         68a          21'Y      19        9.Goy
JAMAICA             80      2.1   1,110       6.5          13.7         37   43   20    90           98         98         40          2.3          95           81        22         8.00
IIEXICO             80    65.5 * 1,883         4.7         17.0'        46   39   15    92           98         53         44          9.5          86           56        17        10.30
NICASACUA           78      2.6b    61ob       3.0b6        1..Ob       ---  --           908 qob    85b6       24         37b        ---           ---          26b.      30b       ---
PANAKA              78      î.8b  1,550b       5,5bwy      21.8bY       42'  13'  13    82b          95by      ___         25by      11.6           gca          50by      277Y    20.40by
PA9ACUAY            79      3.0   1,140       1.4v         14.2        42   17   20    84            83        32          28         3.1r          76           22        12        0.70
PERU                80    16.6   1,000         3.6         14.3         53   15   19    80           83         56         39          9.8          89           39        22        14.40Y
TRIN1DAD   TOb.   77        1.1   3,910       498bY         8.8by       48   32   20    95           Q8         91         30         10.5?         49           62        24        ---
CR1GUAY             78      2.9   2,500        2.5          9,4b        ---8…         -                  x      ---        24        ---            ---          640_      ---       17.800Y
VENbEZLELA          78     14.4   3,440        5.1Y        18.9b        ---  ---  ---   82          106hb       ---        28        ---             ---         Jp(.      17        21.10Y



ANNEX I
TABLE 1
- 46 -                                                                             Page 2 of
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INriICATORS
JANUARY 27, 1983
_                                       |~~~~~~~CENTRAL  I                                                         F                         i        
CVERN.EJ
EPeND'tTURE                                        COMPLETICN            IRECURRENT
RSPDLrCTION                     ABOUT     PRIMANEATE                      UT C5   PROGRESSION SECONOARY                     HICIiER
Csp 589        Ct ESOCATION~~~~ ESSaTIR                           RTE  OUNIT  OTjRATRTE
GNP PFR               AC PERCENT      RECUNNT T       LITERACYEHNROLLU.PR'.MARY                  PR IMARY   |RATE PFROM     HROLL.   SECORDARY ENROLL.
NASE  POP.  CAPITA   NEBCEhT GNPlOTAL CENTRALJ EXPEDITURES  RATE              RATIO  0SCHOOL        ST'DENTS EDUCATION  IPRIMARY TO  RATIO           STLDENTS  PATIO
TEAR 85111.5   G        ESI 0T90  TO |GOVERNMENIT    ALLOCATED TO:  (t)    (TIET)   CYCLE           PER        AR PFECENT SECONDARY   (NET)          PER        (15850)
(I979XI(e979) | ELUCAr ON |EXPENDITURIE  IPRI  SEC  Hl       976)     tr         (T)     |TEACHE   CNP/CAPIA         _")          t)      TAGHER        (X)
_ _ _ (1)  f(2)     (3)            (4)            (5)          (6)        (7)       (8)         9  )       (IO)          ()           (12)
EAST ASIA AND THE PACIPIC
CHINA               75   9à1 .       260      3.3           6.6        29   34   27        66        93        64          27         8.0           83           47         19        2.80
INiONESIA           8I   142.9       370      3.0           9.10.      66   39   ---    32b          '84&"     60          34         1.4           44           23S       16         2.00"
KOREA               82    39.3b  1,63$3         7.)        70.8         34   TA   31       96        99        98          43        19.0           98           84        38        21.80
MALAY IA            S0     14.25  1,460b    5.2            22.0        39   32   13        60b       96-       °4          28        ---            84           65        27         3.70
PAPUA N.G.          79      2.9      760      5.4V         16.4        --                            58.        73         31          1.1          --           64bx      23
PHILIPP11ES         79    48.36      6506     Z.Re         14.0        64   36*^"--        75b       84        65          31         7.1           89           55        36        21.00
SINGAPORE           80      2.4   4,à20       2.7           6.7        39   40   16        83        92        82          31         8.8           96           55        22         8.00
SOLIMPON ISL.       80      0.2      560      4.2PF        10.0"       41   34   20        ---       60        80          26        ---            35           .8        --
TSAIL.AI4D          80    47.3'      723b    3.4           20.9         19   15   13       86b       96        ---         17          9.3          59           58        22         4.00
S0UTH ASIA
BANGLADERSH         79    92.36       90      L..IP        10.1"Y       51   17   20       22b       63Y        --         53          5.6          ---          14        23         1.43
ISDLA               77   659.6       21)      2.9Y          9.9VY            --            36        79        -           41        ---            ---          28X       ---        8.30"Y
NEPAL               80    14.3b    140o       2.4           9.9        27   18   36        19        88N       30          38"       ---            64           14a%      20         2.08"Y
PAKISTAN            79     79.7      270      2.0-Y         5.1Y       39   26   27        24        56X       805         48         6.5           51           20X        17        6.00
EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST ASD NOSP.  AFRICA
AFCâA-NISTAI<;      77    13.5       ---      1.7           3.7        47   19   15        12        311y      69          37b       -              62            8        22bY       2.00Y
ALCERIA             79    18.3   1,770        3.8-         12.3        34"  26"  2I"    35           83Y       45a         37         7.0?          55"          29Y       26         3.70Y
EGYIPT              N      43.56     580b    3.-8           4.5        31a  35"  26"    44          8R4        90A         34         9.85          832          43        19       15.00"
GREECE              76      9.3   4,140       2.6"         10.6b       37   26   21        ---       97by      --          29b        6.2?           ---         79b6      276Y      17.80by
IRAN                79    36.9       --       5.7-Y        14.1…Y ---  ---  ---    50               101"       -           32        -                           44aX      24"        4.90"Y
IRAQ                19    12.b   2 710        4.3"Y         6.9…Y                                   10- Y      ---         2H        -                           45"Y      29"       9.308Y
IRELANT             si      t4b  4,480        6.37Y        51.8         …-Y  _      _      98        93        94          29         _             98           81        14       11.00
JOPLAN              79      2.2   ;,200       4.3"          7.2        19   44   18        7Q0       97S       85          32         7.2           94           44X       20        14.00
LEEBAGNCE           79      2.3      --         --            6            …  -   ---      ---       96X       --          19        ---            ---          46X       --       27.80 Y
MOROCCO             80    19.5       ,4       6.3""        17.53       36   44   20        28        56"Y      35          39        19.7           40           25X       21         4.50
OMAN                79      U.9   3,530       3.7"7         4.9a7Y                  _                45Y        -          23"                      --            7,        9       --
PORT;;GAL           79      9.86  2,060       3.6          22.2        50   28   il        78        97        20          19"       12.8           88"          45X       17"        8.30X
ROMAN0IA            78    22.1   2,100        3.9bY         6.2Y                           98       106b6      ---         23b                      98           34bX      22b       10.60bY
SPAIN               76    37.0   4,920        2.1Y          6.8Y       ---  ---  ---    --- 8…Y                            29b                      --           67bY               24.10bY
E.YRIA              ?a8     3.6   1,170       4.4P         10.3        39   25   26        58        g77Y      80          35b       ---            68           41bY      zîb       12.60
TUhlSIA             79      6.4   1,130       7.OP         19.0        42   39   1R        62b      100"       eo          39b       12.8           30           30S       30         6.00
TIRKEY             ,79      4.3   1,380       3,6f-7       18.6        ---  --  --         60       105-S       --         30"       --             ---          41"       2/         7.07"Y
YEM;ER A.R.         80      6.8      420      5.0p"        12.0        94     7    7       21b       37        12"         38Y       61.0           85            3        20         1.10
YEENT P.D.R.        80      1.9      a24      6.0          10.5        63   14    8        45b       65        53          24        22.4           81           22        16         2.50
S.t'B(1.5:                                                            FOOTNOTES:
--   DATL  UNAVAILA2LE                                                 A . DAT0 M PRIOR TO BASE YEAR
...  YACSITUrE NIL IR HEGL1C1BLE                                        R . DATIR4 MOUE RECENT  840TN BASE YEAR
?  0TUY QOUES-IONABLE                                                 N- CURRENT PRICES
*  INCLI0DES PART-TINE STUDENTS                                       P - CDP
COMBINE, 11T0  FRIMARY                                             Q - INCLUDES FOREIGN AID
COH8I.NED  ITH HIG8 ER0                                            R . CENTRAL C00VRRN9IEET ONLY
S  HMINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY
T - 40AE 0N40 0TA10 GOYVRN1fENT ONTY
V - PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ONLY
X   INCLUDE- S OVER-ACE SrTDENTS
Y   UNESCO SOCRCES
SOURCES!
Co1i.n.  1 and 2:  W-rId Bak AtlaS o, IBRD mIseRons.
CoUI=ns 3 tL   1  I3Rl vlD os   Go-ev-est .OtR.es .d!Ar U-vess Sttistia-  Y.ea.b-Ok.
Campacactie Ed-cattan DSae ave uantal in the ccal,atîsv ai various educatte cyslters and aoal7sls of relative  tages nf ed-oatio-al d-velop=ent betuteen varRau
c-aterica.   Hvvvvr, an che bOasis c  tEhe p-esee dAata, crosa-national ceepatOsan sheuad be epprcaChed vith  reaz raution.   alta preacvted in the abeve table hacc
becs collected largely  y  a Eak eisates  evfroa gerv.et aaarces; the re aaider ar-  vtaff ect4.alea or data fro= Unesco.  Effa-ts have bece  =ade tl  standardire
dcfiteoet    ar.d,  ithin lisiAs, te cheRC the a_c-racy o  th.e data.   -evertheles, sach  ata are  îtill ieperfees  i  several re-pe-ts a-l thv   B-ak la vrfkiîrg t.
i-prave 16cr prt oraslce.y ce che cocastoc sof it  aFecatorsal  ets.  IS  the ase af these daEt, the follovisg quali'icatiosa  shoalo  he lept in misd:
(1)   Fdation  as devfied i  the table includes all eduatian acd IralcOvE. bath forcal and noe-orcal.
(2)  PFIoar7  edacatio-.  -f-ers to cootavice et the first le-e  avd "-ecvsdary  edacazioe  reSte Es oail cducatioe  at the sreodary level regardls oe  f type
(e.N., Renetal, levRelcal, egnicaltaral).
(3) 'Literacy races  (cl,- 6) are oftev                        ...atted  Troc vcoutry ceeaase".  le ..a.oaantrles they are saly approxîsitioc   and it is doubtful that anyv uiform
definitian eT .  terace" `has brce  foli-ed cAossteatly.
(4)   Psblir capeyAdit.tc  c  educdatinc    (rein. 4 and 5) refe-s tv ail capitai a-d recavenet epcsdltoures decoted tE  edo bayion  Sy poblir and quasi-public
ageolea .
(0)  'Lvnc.llevvsecttes   (cols. 7, l acd 141 vfoet te .ceool  -ea: ,vd ans *he  -erceotage of vlGgihle RhîlAvec enrolled fuli-tirein  the aFpv,oFraEe school,
publir anA prîcare vy lecel.   They arr cft-e  aubJcot to e vide  -argin  et -r rr (c the d-vcrpi9og r-.crloes oving Es variations la t1e atccuray  f l-asic
data (i.e, age-sToile  ppoplaeAti         ..d ellevts).  0rr Ilvent figares froque :lo ar   ighehr sbae the caebcr vf atdrents actbalî thl  soiafi.  rver-eged
stadentes obesoencoiccs ts icdica-td by iootvaîes alsa ccv  iSa te ton rossas.



ANNEX I
TABLE 2
_ 47 -                                  Page l of 2
BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY  EDUCATION
GROSS ENROLMENT RATIOS BY COMMUNE (1978-1979)
Gross
Enrollment   Enrollment
Province           District           Commune         P7-12          Primary    Ratio
BUBANZA
Bubanza                          22,287           3,949        17.7
Mpanda           9,994          2,086        20.9
Musigati        12,293          1,863        15.2
Cibitoke                         27,914           5, 013       18.0
Buganda         10,375          1,283        12.4
Bukinanyana      7,681          2,556        33.3
Rugombo          9,858          1,174        11.9
BUJUMBURA
Bujumbura                        24,077         14,230         59.1
Bujumbura       20,510         13,336        65
Ville
Mutimbuzi        3,567            894        25.1
Mwisale                          41,683          11,304        27.1
Buyenzi          7,645            894        11.7
Isale            9,491          2,347        24.7
Kabezi           8,047          1,992        24.8
Kanyosha         5,091          2,585        50.8
Mingongomanga   6,174           2,721        44.1
Mutambu          5,235            765        14.6
BURURI
Bururi                           53,134         17,139         32.3
Burambi         12,602          1,707        13.5
Bururi           8,617          4,320        50.1
Matana          11,417          5,604        49.1
Mugamba          6,799          1,985        29.2
Rumonge          8,161          1,611        19.7
Rutovu           5,538          1,912        34.5
Makamba                          25,210           4,698        18.6
Bukemba          5,638            399         7.1
Mabanda          4,598            844        18.4
Makamba         10,107          2,252        22.3
Nyanza-Lac         824               0           0
Vugizo           4,043          1,203        29.8
GITEGA
Bukirasazi                       34,729           8,757        25.2
Bukirasazi       8,449          1,425        16.9
Itaba            5,144          1,190        23.1
Makebuko         6,913          1,962         28.4
Nyabiraba       14,223          4,180        29.4
Gitega                           37,751           9,695        25.7
Bitare           9,106          1,997        21.9
Giheta           7,007          2,479        35.4
Gitega          11,389          3,256        28.6
Mutaho          10,249          1,963        19.2
Karuzi                           24,644           4,028        16.3
Bugenyuzi        7,872          1,893        24.0
Buhiga           8,366          1,175        14.0
Nyabikere        8,406             960       11.4



ANNEX 1
TABLE 2
- 48 -                             Page 2 of 2
Gross
Enrollment      Enrollment
Province          District       Commune           P7-12        Primary        Ratio
MURAMVYA
Muramvya                       27,093                         32.2
Bukeye            6,204         1,708           27.5
Kiganda           9,254          3,097          33.5
Mbuye             5,423          1,616          29.8
Muramvya          6,212          2,295          36.9
Mwaro                           28,557        10,825          37.9
Bisoro            6,554         2,443           37.3
Kayokwe           4,540          2,128          46.9
Makamba           5,265          3,147          59.8
Ndava             6,150         1,760           28.6
Nyabihanga        6,048          1,347          22.3
MUYINGA
Kirundo                        4711683                        14.9
Busoni           12,069         1,406           11.6
Bwambarangwe      8,523            905          10.6
Kirundo          11,929          2,320          19.4
Ntega             7,865          1,105          14.0
Vunbi-Bukuba      6,782          1,277          18.8
Muyinga                        32,084          5,718          17.8
Buhinyuza         7,318          1,235          16.9
Butihinda         6,595            811          12.3
Gasorwe           5,185            901          17.4
Muyange-Gashoho  5,827             970          16.6
Muyinga           7,159          1,801          25.2
NGOZI            Kayanza                          63,187        10.055           15.9
Banga             7,530         1,783           23.7
Busiga            6,764         1,161           17.2
Gahombo           7,001         1,383           19.8
Catara            8,554         1,615           18.9
Ijene             6,744            617           9.1
Kayanza           6,910            537           7.8
Malongo           7,481          1,475          19.7
Rango            12,203         1,484           12.2
Ngozi                            49,689         9,222          18.6
Gashikanwa       10,049          1,043          10.4
Kiremba           8,063            831          10.3
Marangara         5,570          1,625          29.2
Mvumba            6,461          1,421          22A0
Ngozi             7,899          2,050          26.0
Ruhororo          5,996            793          13.2
Tangara           5,651          1,459          25.8
RUYIGI
Cankuzo                         1        6 ,6616               37.1
Cankuzo           6,563          1,884          28.7
Gisagara         10.098         4,292           42.5
Rutana                          16,716          3,850          23.0
Mpinga-Kayove    7,467          1,535           20.6
Musongati         4,809          1,343          27.9
Rutana            4,440            972          21.9
Ruyigi                           22j950                        2048
Butaganzwa         5,334           770          14.4
Bweru              4,685         1,157          24.7
Kinyinya           3,346           329            9.8
Nyabitare          4,796           771           16.1
Ruyigi             4,789         1,754           36.6
Source: Ministry of National Education - Latest available figures by Commune



ANNEX I
49                                                                                TABLE  3
CCH  CCCI  C  C  -~~~   C           C.   C                                .0    CCC. 
- L   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                  -- C-                                    -          --         -     -_--       -      _  _- _
-     -     -~      .      -     -     -    C                    -    -        -   -     -    -     -    - -                  
&CC9C   -    C    C    C                  C    C          -      -    -    -C                       -            
CCtCC     ..C          -    -   C   -       C    C        -   C    C    C    C       -    -    -   C    C    C    C    -- -    I
.CC.CC.'..    . C            C         .    C      C     C.C. .           .   r.         rr.r.       .      
-            -I   -      -    -       C-        C    C-C-  -        C- -      C    C    C C-     -    - 
---                   -     -C -C    C      -     -       -     -C        -C-        -     -     C       C -CC -                          
C             C.   C    C    C         C      C C C C CC,                     C C.-7-   77   C~:  C7
T   _ _  _          -    _-       _   _-_-_                     _-_-_                     _-_-_                     _-_-
C    …………………                                                                                                                                             CC-       - - -       - -       - - --  
C…………………C.OII.I3CS
C      CCC             -CC        -   C    C  CC5 C C C C C                              C~   C CC-               CD   c7  I        C 



BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1/
PRIMARY EDUCATION ENROLLMENT
1975/76 - 1980/81
Grades
School
Years         Sex        1            2            3            4             5             6          Total
1975 - 1976       B       16,824       13,695       13,321       12,287        12,309        11,116       79,552
G      11,408         8,850        8,705        7,774        7,252          6.056       50,045
T      28,232        22,545       22,026       20,061       19,561         17,172      129,597
B      17,880        13,681       12,744       12,224       12,154         11,370       80,053
1976 - 1977       G       12,115        9,080        8,458        7,886         7,438         6,308       51,285
T      29,761        22,761       21,202       20,110       19,592         17,678      131,338
B      20,815        15,039       13,212       12,900        13,644        11,336       86,946
1977 - 1978       G       13,406        9,792        8,801         8,405         8,452        6,432       55,288
T      34,211        24,831       22,013       21,303        22,096        17,768      142,234
B      20,494        15,978       13,916       12,787        13,420        11,936       88,531
1978 - 1979       G       13,743       10,423        9,175        8,476          8,483        7,185       57,485
T      34,237        26,401       23,091       21,263        21,903        19,121      146,016
B      23,486        17,375       15,146       13,870        13,793        13,239       96,909
1979 - 1980       G       15,652       11,329        9,807        9,859          8,934        8,039       62,820
T      39,138        28,704       24,953       22,929        22,727        21,278      159,729
B      25,412        19,523       16,801       15,213        15,034        14,521      106,513
1980 - 1981       G       17,036       12,799       10,943        9,808          9,943        8,823       69 352A
T      42,448        32,322       27,744       25,021        24,977        23,344      175,856 
Source:  Ministry of National Education - Directorate of Planning.                                                             >
1/  Public and Government-Aided Private Schools.
2/  Excluding 1,004 pre-primary and 9,293 non-aided private school students.
The breakdown of private school enrollments by sex and grade is not available,



BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1/
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
1972/73-1980/81
Schools                                                                Enrollments
School Year       Central      Branch      Total      Classrooms      Teaching Staff        Boys       Girls       Total
1972 - 1973         213         354         567         3,616             3,954             83,410    47,748    131,158
1973 - 1974         n.a.        n.a.        571         3,651             4,021             79,420    47,304    126,724
1974 - 1975         228         349         577         3,751              4,154            80,649    48,869    129,518
1975 - 1976         228         352         '80         3,771              4,209            79,552    50,045    129,597
1976 - 1977         228         353         581         3,791             4,245             80,053    51,285    131,338
1977 - 1978         228         347         575         3,818              4,382            86,946    55,288    142,234
1978 - 1979         248         325         573         3,908              4,466            88,531    57,485    146,016
1979 - 1980         272         341         613         4,015              4,602            96,909    62,820    159,729
1980 - 1981 2/      274         407         681         4,259              4,805           106,513    69,352    175,856
Source:  Ministry of National Education - 1980/1981 Statistical Year-Book
1/ Public and Government-aided private schools.
2/  Excluding 1,004 pre-primary and 9,293 non-aided private school students.
I-14



ANNEX I
- 52 -                                                    TABLE 6
BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1/
SECONDARY EDUCATION
DISTRIBUTION OF STUDENTS BY SEX AND GRADE
(1980/81)
Total                                 Total               As 1
Junior                                Upper      Grand    of
7      8       9       10   Secondary  li    12         13    14  Secondary Total   Total
1.  General Secondary Schools                B    734    800    977    804    3,315    614    640    571    -   1,825    5,140
(Enseignement Secondaire Général)        G    198    249    272    313    1,032    223    195    163    -             581    1,613
T    932  1,049  1,249  1,117    4,347    837    835    734    -   2,406    6,753   37.0
2.  Junior Secondary Schools                 B    372    323    167    119          981      -       -       -      -       -        981
(Cycle d'Orientation)                    G     52      64      61      61       238      -       -       -     -       -        238
T    424    387    228    180    1,219          -       -      -      -       -      1,219    7.0
3.  Teacher Training Institutes              B    484    533    559    468    2,044    254    220    216   171    861    2,905
(Ecoles Normales)                        G    345    380    396    370    1,491    204    157    153    85    599    2 090
T    829    913    955    838    3,535    458    377    369   256  1,460    4,995   28.0
2/
4.  Assistant Teacher Training InstitutêsB    120    186    195    100               601    130      -       -      -      130       731
(Ecoles Moyennes Pédagogiques)           G    215    261    231    200          907    216       -       -     _      216    1,123
T    335    447    426    300    1,508    346           -      -      -      346    1,854   10.0
TOTAL GENERAL AND TEACHER TRAINING   B  1,710  1,842  1,898  1,491    6,941    998    860    787   171  2,816    9,757
G    810    954    960    944    3,668    643    352    316    85  1,396    5,064
T  2,520  2,796  2,858  2,435   10,609  1,641  1,212  1,103   256  4,212   14,821   82.0
5. Technical Schools
(à) Ministry of National Education (MNE)
(i) Niddle Level Technicians (A2)            B    -       -       -       -          -      186    132       86    38    442         442
G    -       -       -       -          -      147    130      92    68    437         437
T    -       -       -       -          -      333    262    178   106    879          879    5.0
(ii) Skilled Workers (A3)                     B    226    217    176    153           772     83      -       _       _      83       855
G    -       -       -       -          -       _       _       _      _       _        _
T    226    217    176-   153          772      83      -       -      -      83       855    4.5
(iii) Semi-Skilled Workers (A4)                B      41      66    103       67       277      -                             -        277
G     -       12       5       7        24      -       -      -       -      -         24
T     41      78    108       74       301      -       -      -       -      -        301    1.5
Sub-Total Technical MNE                B    267    283    279    220    1,049          269   132       86    38      525   1,574
G     -       12       5       7        24      147   130      92    68       437      461
T    267    295    284    227    1,073          416   262    178   106        962   2,035   11.0
(b)  Other Ministries                       B      -     231      161    116       508      227   128       92    33       480      988
G     -       -       -       -         -        96    62       51    33      242      242
T     -      231    161    116         508      323   190    143    66        722   1,230    7.0
TOTAL TECHNICAL                        B            514    440    336    1,557         496   260    178    71   1,005   2,562
G     -       12       5       7        24      243   192    143   101        679      703
T    267    526    445    343    1,581          739   452    321   172   1,684   3,265   18.0
GRAND TOTAL                            B  1,977  2,356  2,338  1,827    8,498   1,494 1,120    965   242   3,821  12,319
G    810    966    965    951    3,692          886   544    459   186   2,075   5,767
T  2,787  3,322  3,303  2,778   12,190   2,380 1,664  1,424   428   5,896  18,086  100.0
Source:  M{inistry of National Education - 1980/81 Statistical Year-Book
1/  Comprehensive table including all secondary level education and training
2/ Including the Islamic Assistant Teacher Training Institute



ANNEX I
TABLE 7
BURUNDI                                Page 1 of 2
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1/
SECONDARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
(1974-1975 to 1980-1981)
STAFF
SCHOOL           TYPE 0F             CLASS- Teaching   Administra-
YEAR           EDUCATION             OOSm              tive                ENROLLMENTS
M     F    M        F     Boys    Girls   Total
General Secondary       154   186    48    36    14    4,053    1,204   5,257
Teacher Training        n.a.  104    24    23    18    2,240         908   3,148
1974-1975        Assistant Teacher       n.a.   64    39    16    23         893    1,037   1,930
Training
Technical              n.a.  133    -       36      2       905       19      924
Junior Sscondary       n.a.   43       8    20      8      470       568   1,038-
TOTAL                   -     530   119   131    65    8,561    3,736  12,297
General Secondary      n.a.  227    43    42    31    4,467    1,306   5,773
Teacher Training              151    38    38    15    2,228         974   3,202
1975-1976        Assistant Teacher       n.a.   66    47    18    25         908    1,271   2,179
Training
Technical              n.a.  103    -       47      2    1,074        25   1,099
Junior Secondary       n.a.   28    28       5    20       742f    628   1,370
TOTAL                  n.a.  575   156   150    93    9,419    4,204  13,623
General Secondary       172   351    79    43    20    4,391    1,497   5,888
Teacher Training         98   149    60    33    20    1,817    1,303   3,120O
1976-1977        Assistant Teacher        65    71    36    16    28    1,002    1,416   2,418w
Training                                                      I
Technical                51   124      7    27    4      1,195 |      21   1,215
Junior Secondary         22     Included in General        480       216     696»
-  Secondary
TOTAL                   408   695    182  119   72       8,885    4,452   3,337
General Secondary      193   297       59   57   33      5,005    1,470   6,475
Teacher Training       111   120       36   32   28      2,544    1,575   4,119
1977-1978        Assistant Teacher        S2    66      33   17   13         784    1,128   1,912
Training
Technical                71   131       8   31    7      1,211       240   1,451
Junior Secondary         26    35       6    7    7        565       358      923
TOTAL                  453   649    142  144   88    10,109    4,771  14,880
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _      _    _      _ _     _._            I _   _   _    _



ANNEX I
TABLE 7
-54 -                                Page 2 of 2
STAFF
Adminis-
School         TYPE OF             CLASS-   Teaching       trative         ENROLLMENT
Year          EDUCATION            ROOMS    M      F M          F      Boys    Girls    Total
General Secondary    201   300    67    49    35   5,127    1,623    6,750
Teacher Training       132   189    54    61    36   2,803    1,779    4,582
Assistant Teacher       49    58    25    16    27        746      990    1,736
1978-1979         Training
Technical               80   122      9    24      4   1,269       322    1,591
Junior Secondary        26    52    24    26    12       703       419    1,122 l/
TOTAL                 488   721   179   176   114   0,468    5,133   15,781
General Secondary    201   374    80    67    43   5,286    1,695    6,981
Teacher Training       132   252    53    43    42   2,781    1,934    4,715
1979-1980         Assistant Teacher       48    72    21    19    31        722    1,088    1,810
Training
Technical               85   152    27    28       6   1,516       402    1,918
Junior Secondary        26    40      7    13      6     767       219       986
TOTAL                 492   890   188   170   128  11,072    5,338   16,410
General Second1ary    208   359   104    58    45   5,140    1,613    6,753
Teacher Training      138   246    58    52    48   2,905     2,090     4,995
1980/81          Assistant Teacher       48    82    26    15    28        731    1,123  | 1,854
Trainin8 g
Technical              100   214    25    63    23   1,574         461    2,035
Junior Secondary        31    41    17    12       6      981      238    1,219
TOTAL                  525   942   230   200   150  112331    5,525   16,856
Sources:  Ministry of National Education, Statistical Year-Book 1979-1980
Unesco Sector Survey, June 1978 (n)
l/  Ministry of National Education.  Statistical Year Book 1978-1979
2/  Excluding agricultural education (800 students) and specialized
training provided by ministries other than the Ministry of National
Education (430 students including 287 in health).



» t a  5         P «    <             >r,  t J          On 2                          'n e    
001                              r,                                                       '           :F5   ftpn 0.
55 O           o.                      4           h              t' e           t3
4.4 en                                             -                             t'       'i  g*tge           
tO           _h sh                               G                  1                 Ul 
C0            0Z   01    W                                                     I-1  
j  t     4.    4.   1h           -    ".
œ ~            ~             4 ô0 o                       I>XO    , s'Mj
4.   _4   14         I    s r       0  ,  D     l _       4.         0 VlD 4  
D  D  O  W _ In S _    s 5                5           n                   1 
1h    O    0                    .                             14     C_ oI    I o  j
4.   v4       O           .4    14.                           .4o       0440Œ1-
_4   C4    14      I    0.041                         I  A0    _4hOÔ_ 
o    W    ;   | | j  ^ j     S  g g  S : g     -4 
O     O    4.       ,     . 0       1       â4              4.       4  XX  
~~~0~ ~                 55  _ 1 41 0 0  0         1  
4.    4 a.4                            1.4            ..4            .        04
I          4..   O               14.44.                   14 14.                I



BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION
(in FBU millions - Current Prices)
ACTUALS                     ____________1/PROJECTIONS
ITEMS                           1974     f975      1976     1977      1978     1979      1980      1981     1982      1985       1987      1990
I.   GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT                25,282   30,467   36,272   42,513   49,120   63,467   74,056   82,694   97,395   142,017   186,659   284,659
II.  GOVERNMENT CAPITAL EXPENDITURES          252       331    1,015    2,041    3,392    2,622    4,322    4,782    6,089          7,740    10,641    17,302
As % of I                             1.0       1.1      2.8       4.8      6.9       4.1       6.8      5.8       6.3        7.5       5.7        6.1
III. MINISTRY OF EDUCATION CAPITAL
EXPENDITURES                           -         -      11.4    113.3       242       157       252      321       200        387       532        865
As % of I                              -         -       0.03      0.3      0.5       0.2       0.3      0.4       0.2        0.2       0.3        0.3
As % of II                             -         -       1.1       5.6       7.1      6.0       5.8      6.7       3.3        5.0       5.0        6.0
IV.  GOVERNMENT RECURRENT EXPENDITURES    2,903    3,205    4,180    4,922    6,656    8,973    9,899   10,628   14,360    16,876    22,272    34,260
As % of I                            11.5      10.5     11.5      11.6     13.6      14.1      13.4     12.9      14.7       11.9      11.9       11.9
V.   MINISTRY OF EDUCATION RECURRENT
EXPENDITURES                          619       710      863    1,174    1,465    1,684    2,024    1,984    2,564         3,800      4,900      7,300
As Z of I                              25       2.3      2.4       2.8       3.0      2.7       2.7      2.4       2.4        z./       2.6        2.6
As I of Il                           21.3     22.2      20.7      23.9     /Z.0      18.8     2 0.4     18.7      17.9      22.5       22.1       21.2
VI.  PREMARY EDUCATION RECUIRRIEI 
EXPENDITURES                          294       325      379       520      650       757       889      864    1,039      1,700      2,350      3,700
As % of V                            47.5     45.8      43.9      44.3       44        45        44       44        41         45        48         50
2/
VII. PRIMARY ENROLLMENTS (in 000's)           128       130       130      135       144      151       165       186      210        350        470       570
(245)     (280)      (325)
VIII.7-12 AGE-GROUP (in OOO's)                530       540       555      570       585      600       615       650      670        735        782       857
IX.  GROSS ENROLLMENT RATIO (%)                24        24       23        24        25       25        27        29       30         46         61        66
(33)      (36)       (38)
X.   TEACHERS                               4,066    4,172    4,221    4,292    4,416    4,527    4,678    4,822    5,000           6,100      7,000     8,100
XI.  PUPIL TEACHER RATIO                        31       31        31       31        33       33        35        39       42         57         67         70
_ _________    ______       _______   _ _  _______________    _  ________________     ___________________._________________            (40)       (40)      (40)
1/ Budget Figures for 1982
2/ Theoretical alternative enrollment projections based on the following hypotheses: (a) Budgetary allocation to primary education increases
progressively to 50% of the MNE recurrent budget in 1990; (b) double shifting is progressively introduced into 75% of existing schools.
Single-shift data equivalent is given between parentheses.  Student unit costs and student:teacher ratios vary along -ith the DroRressive
implementation of double shifting.
Sources! Ministry of Planning (Projections for GDP  and Governmnent 2aoptal and Recurrent ExoendittIres) and M n;stry )I  Nationai Eiucat on
(Capital and Recurrent Expenditures).
H >
rOr
rsi~
io -



BURUNi71
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION
RECURRSENT BUDGET 1978-1982
(in FBu million ft current ptices)
.sOuf   OaîerIesi    A..uf         dOTAL                         dOTAL   Salas-inA    AsTuf                         AsTof                          AsTof   lalariesA        As%of                      AsTAt
Expenditues   Exp..   Feilowships    Expn.           Boerding      Expn.        Expenditurer   Expn.   Fellowships   Enpn.           Boadin8       Expn.        Expendieures   Expn.   FIlowships   Expn.    Bun3ding                 Expn.
1. ADMINISTRATION                             24           2%           21         887.                                       17           1%           16         94.                                         21           1%           20          95%
2. FNIMARY                                   858          44/.        642          99%                                       7257         45AI         241         987                                        889          44%         866           97%
(i) Friry                               648                       641         95%                                       752                       737          987.                                      868                       852          98%
(ii) Nan-formaI                             2                        1          58m%                                        5                        4          80%                                        21                        LA          67%
3. SECONDARY                                 481          33%          281         58/.        176          37%              544          32%          333         61%7        189          35%               659          33%          420          64%         Z14           32%
(i) GOn. 6 Teacher Treining             397                       230         58%         159          40%              456                       280          61%         168          37%              555                       356          64%.        190           34%
(88) T-chni-al                             84                       51          60/.         17         207.               88                       53          60/,         21          24%              104                         64         62/.         24           23%
4. HIGR8R                                    31i          21%          216                                                   366          22%          252          69%                                       455          22/,         312
(1) Onlverslty                          157                        63         40%                                       190                        76          4Gb                                       239                        96          40%
(if) Felowships                         153                       153                                                    176                      176                                                    216                       216
5. TOTAL                                    1465         10D%        1160          79%         176          12X             1684         100%         1342          80%        189          ]1%              2024         100%         1618          80%         214           11%
(i) Gelas-i.                                                     1007          69%                                                               1166          69%                                                                1402          69%
(IL) Fellowshipe                                                   153         1I%                                                                 176          11%                                                                 216          11%
-8---------------------------- 1981 ----------------------------    -------------------…------ 1982 (Bndgmt) --- …--------…-_                        --     -                                __T_…_
An % cf  saCI-ie- A   As % cf                     As X cf                       As % cf   S1-rinr &   Au % cf                     As % of
tapmndiinren   lEps.   FmliIowhipt   Expn.           Boardihg      Expa.           Budget       Budget   Fellowshipn   Budget    Bnarding    Budget                        Inn-1den Iiie.ir  n- Cabinet. InspettoPrate  planning Unit,
Osorollienin-aes(Peina-y, Seeondary  -md High-t
_                                                  E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ducution) and Notions1  iomsninnlnn fns- Unesco.
1. ADMINISTRATION-Y                           26           1%           25         96%                                        36           1%           31         86%
__                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2/   n-înd-n subsidien  ru prinata  n-hool.
2. FRIMABY                                   864          44%          852         997,                                     1039          41%         1020          98%                                                    4.0 million (1978)
3.5 million  (1979)
(i) Frima-y                             835                       825          99%                                      995                       983          99%                                                    7.0 million  (1980)
7.0 million  (1981)
(Ni) Non-forYal                            29                       27          93%                                        44                        37         84%
3. SECONDARY                                 554          28%         308          56%         219         40%               889          35%         559           63%        250          28%               SOURCE:
(1) Gem. & Ta.c.hr Trninlng             460                       257          56%        194          427.              747                      478          64%         220          29%              Mininrsy of Finance
(If) Taahnical                             94                       51          54%          25         27%               142                       81          57%          30          21%
4. NGiHER                                    540          27%          360                                                   600          23%          384          64%
(i) Univ-rsity                          300                       120         40%                                        360                      144          40%
(ii) Fellowshipn                         240                       240                                                    240                      240
5, TOTAL                                    1984         100/.       1545          78%         219          11%             2564         100%         1994          787         25D I0 10%
(i) OSIarias                                                     1305          66%                                                               1754          69%                                                                                                                     o
(11) FelltwdhiFt                                                   240          127.                                                               240           9%



ANNEX I
- 58 -                                                TABLE 11
BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION
1/
ENROLLMENTS, TEACHERS AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
ALTERNATIVE PROJECTIONS 1982/83-1990/91
Gross
Gross   Enroll-  Enroll-  Total    Total          Annual 2/                   3/
7 year        7-12      Intake  ment       ment      Enroll-  Active    Require-  Recurrent Costs by FY in FBU million
Age Group   Age Group  Ratio   Ratio    Grade 1  ment           Teachers  ments           FY      Costs       as % of Budget
Years        1          2         3         4          5         6          7        8           9          10              il
Alternative 1 4/
82/83   122,400       671,000    41        30       50,000   199,000    4,430        -          1983      1,010             35
83/84   126,300       692,000    43        32       54,300   220,000    4,400    190            1984      1,115             34
84/85   130,400       713,000    46        35       60,000   246,000    4,480    300            1985      1,250             33
85/86   134,500       735,000    49        38       65,900   276,000    4,600    340            1986      1,420             33
86/87   138,800       758,000    52        41       72,200   308,000    4,750    380            1987      1,600             33
87/88   143,300       782,000    55        44       78,800   341,000    4,880    360            1988      1,850             33
88/89   147,800       806,000    57        46       84,200   372,000    5,310    680            1989      2,220             35
89/90   152,600       831,000    59        49       90,000   403,000      5,76u    720          L99u      2,640             36
90/91   157,5G0       857,000    60        51       94,500   433,000    6,190    720
Alternative 2 4/
82/83   122,400       671,000    41        30       50,000   199,000    4,500        -          1983      1,050             36
83/84   126,300       692,000    43        32       54,300   220,000    4,540    260            1984      1,170             35
84/85   130,400       713,000    46        35       60,000   246,000    4,690    380            1985      1,340             35
85/86   134,500       735,000    49        38       65,900   276,000    4,890    430            1986      1,540             36
86/87   138,800       758,000    52        41       72,200   308,000    5,130    490            1987      1,760             36
87/88   143,300       782,000    55        44       78,800   341,000    5,330    460            1988      2,030             36
88/89   147,800       806,000    57        46       84,200   372,000    5,810    750            1989      2,430             38
89/90   152,600       831,000    59        49       90,000   403,000    6,300    780            1990      2,890             40
90/91   157,500       857,000    60        51       94,500   433,000    6,780    790
l/ In current prices
2/ Assuming a 5% attrition rate for the teaching force.
3/ Computed on the basis of the 1981 unit cost with an annual inflation rate of 10%.  Budget figures are those
provided by the Ministry of Planning. They allow for a 13.9% budgetary increase per annum for the Ministry
of National Education.
4/ Alternatives 1 and 2 are based on Goverament's objectives to reach a gross admission ratio of 60% for 7-year olds
in Grade 1 and to introduce automatic promotion as from 1982/83.  Alternative 1 (high variant) assumes that double
shifting can be introduced into 75% of existing schools resulting in a student:teacher ratio of 70:1, as compared with
40:1, presently considered as a realistic country-wide average on a single shift basis. Alternative 2 (low variant)
assumes that double-shifting can be introduced into only 60% of existing schools resulting in a student:teacher ratio of
64:1.



SMRY OA    f ENPIIIEMT AU  OITINATED PR0JECY C90TS
1HIR0 EDUCATION 00IICY
EXCHAIOIE RATE! i US $ y 90.000 F90
SCALE FACTOPI fl (00> MILLIONS
ElOrIN LEVEL          No.   AlFA        SITE IEYELF8               BUILDING                FRNIToî*E               E0I1IPIT              PROUF, SEROCO            FELLOWSAIPS              EXPERTE               PROJ. 0908$          PROJEC  IR1  F90         $00
NO,    PR01C1 ITEM                                   TYPE PLACES  38 M LOCAL FOREI81   TOTAL LOCAL FOREIGN  TOTAL LOCAL F000100  fTUTU  15<01 FUFEIGO   TOTAL LOCAL F10116   TOTAL LOCAL F00016   TOTAL LOCAL FOREIeO  TOTAL LOCAL F0RE160  TOTAL LOCAL F000060   TOTAL  TOTAL
1.00     10111 900080  LEMONI*88 018, 24 GRADE 1-6
1,10     EXICLUOINGM6W        oSM , 22       SR 0EI1-6 S5280    11330             4     7       Il    74*   137*       211       O     25        33      1      21       22                                                                                              -        87     189     2%6   3067
FOOT8$TE 1                                0  22          -        0      0        i      4       0       12                                                                                                                                               - -4             8      13     141
1.20      IMIIFL1OIGcE K, 2                  8R00E 1-6A0480           1128       0      1         I     et    15*       23       I      3                O       2        2    --                               --                                                                10      21      0*     336
FIRTOOTE!                                 0      2       -        0      0        O      O       1        I         -   -                            ……………                                                                                                                  1       I      13
TOTALOF SECTURF1.00          OYOKT              0 5760    12450        4      8       12  82        152      234      Y      218       V      i       S       24--                                                                                                     'A     210     »à6  3403
H0060800          *24            -        0      0        I      5               13…-                                                                                                                                                      S       9      14     1%4
YOTAL                        12450        4      8       12    80    161        24'             28       37     1      23       24…-                                                                                                    IYl    219       320   3557
2.00      .IOR ISEEOIWAY SCHfiS, 4    GRA0E 7-10351280                3620        4     8        12    34*      04*      98      2       7       10     I      le       19      O       2        2--                                                                             42      q8      III    1564
0  20       1320        1      1        2     5#      90       15    -       -         -     -       -        -       O       0        O…-                                                                                     il       i'    184
3.00      TEAOE0TRAINING81STI1T ES  2 GRADE  7-12 S960                2446        3     6         9    22      40        62      2       6        a     I      14       15      *       I         1…-                                                                            38      68       96  1065
0  328      2750        4     7        10    248     458       69      2       7           O          2         2     0        1        2…-                                                                            30       61      921- 018
0    18    1584         i     2         3     70    13*        21l            -        -                              0       O         O-                                                                               8      16      24     268
4,00      SOIAL aFERS. 20                    N'A.         £ 2400      9475        3     5         7    520    970       149      Y      14       19      I     27       28…-                                                                                                      61    142    201   2254~,
FOOTOOTE 2
5.08  ?EAC010AIO P0OEMJTION                  HA.4         S  -                                               -                                          4   70   74  - -                        - -              7    7  -    5   95  -   -                              -         4  2727  175  1949
0.00      PROIECTAD81MIST0ATIO8              0,A.         0    --                                                                                       2      43       45…         …       …      …       …      …       …      …      li      Ili    59       25       8       61    179       240   2667
BASELI9E  81T!IN   FNU                                                           20    36        56  231      4219      659    21       62       82  10       197      207      I       5         6              7        7    -       286      2*6    59       25       84     34!    966    1307
INI US                                                          218   404       622  2564   4763    '327   229    68'           916   11!   2186    2301    13         53       67      -       5        75    -    228        2285   653    280        933   3793  10733  14526
m(INGOENI1ES
IUNRESEEN   IN   FOU                                                             2      4        6    23      43        66      2       6        I     I      10       10      O       0         1    -       -         -      --   -                   6       3        0      34       66     09
IN05 3St2    40                                                                  622'56       476       733     23      6Q       02     6    109       115      1       5         7     -       -               -       -        -      65      28       93    374    '28    1102
PlICE         IN   F90                                                           5      9       14    59    110        169      5      té       21     3      48       51      O       1        2     -         2        2    -        40       48    15        6       22      87    241       328
IN  US g                                                         56   104       160   658   1222       1879    59    176        235    21    535       563      3      14        17     -       I1       17    -       533      573   160        '2     239      912   2073    3644
GMITOTAL   68   FOU                                                            27    49         76 313       581       895    28       84      11213l    255          268      2       7        a               8        O            5        254    8*       34      114     462    12'2   1734
INI  US $                                                       2m    548       844  3479   6461       9939   311    932       1243  j*4    2830    2979    le         72        90     -       92       92    -      2818    2818   606    380        1268    5138  14133  192'11h 
1*0L  ALMSPOVI1039  BASIC ENJCOTION F60 OUT OF 801004 YIOM  AND 01011£
2-088968PR80IDE0*ON F0481 EMXATION AND T8INIOG EXCLIISIKY



- 60 -                                    ANNEX I
BURUNDI                                    TABLE 13
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED COST BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE
FBU (millions)               US$ (millions)         % of
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign  Total   Total
1. CIVIL WORKS
(a) Site Development               20        36         56      0.22      0.40    0.62       4
(b) Construction                  231       429        660      2.57      4.76    7.33    51
Sub-Total (a+b)               251       465        716      2.79      5.16    7.95    55
2.  FURNITURE                      21        61         82      0.23      0.69    0.92       6
3.  EQUIPMENT & VEHICLES           10       197        207      0.12      2.19    2.31    16
4.  PROFESSIONAL SERVICES           1         5          6      0.01      0.06    0.07       1
5.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
a) Specialists' Services        -       206        206       -        2.29    2.29    15
b) Fellowships                  -         7          7       -       0.08    0.08       1
Sub-Total (5)                   -      213         213      -        2.37    2.37    16
6.  PROJECT ADMINISTRATION         59        25         84      0.65      0.28    0.93       6
BASE COST (Jan 1, 1983)       342       966      1,308     3.80    10.75   14.55   100
(Total 1-6)
7. CONTINGENCIES
(a) Physical (8%)                  34        66        100      0.37      0.73    1.10
(b) Price (23%)                    87       241        328      0.97      2.68    3.65
Sub-Total Contingencies       121      307         428      1.34     3.41    4.75
TOTAL PROJECT COST            463    1,273       1,736      5.14    14.16   19.30
(Total 1-7)
Of which duties and taxes   64             -        64      0.7        -      0.7



ANNEX I
TABLE 14
- 61 -
BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ million)
Accumulated               Undisbursed
Quarter 1/            Disbursements             Disbursements                Balance
1.  FY84                   0.5                      0.5                        15.3
2.   "                     0.3                      0.8                        15.0
3.                         0.3                      1.1                        14.7
4.   "                     0.3                      1.4                        14.4
5.  FY85                   0.4                      1.8                        14.0
6.                         0.8                      2.6                        13.2
7.                         1.0                      3.6                        12.2
8.   "                     1.0                      4.6                        11.2
9.  FY86                   1.0                      5.6                        10.2
10.                         1.0                      6.6                         9.2
I1.   "                     1.2                      7.8                         8.0
12.                         1.2                      9.0                         6.8
13.  FY87                   1.2                     10.2                         5.6
14.   "                     1.2                     11.4                         4.4
15.                         1.2                     12.6                         3.2
16.                         1.2                     13.8                         2.0
17.  FY88                   0.9                     14.7                         1.1
18.   "                     0.6                     15.3                         0.5
19.                         0.3                     15.6                         0.2
20.                         0.2                     15.8                          -
_/ From date of effectiveness



BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION, 1981
Primary Level                          Junior Secondary Level          Senior Secondary Level                       Higher Level
Primary Teacher Training
{><                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~universityJ-
General Secondary Ed ucatio n              E GTG                    {    TE
{3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                CC   L        AG   MED
.  |        ~~~Agricultural Education
i                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Degrees and Qualifications
l                           ~~      ~      ~~~~~A2  A2   -  Middle Level Technician
Primary Education
A4   -  Semi-skilled Worker
PC                                  Medical Sciences                            AG   -  Agronomist                                       0Œ
L|)  <e_E_                                  AN    -  Assistant Nurse
Literaty Programs                   c     -  "Candidature" (Junior College or
LiteracyaPrograma                                                         SA  AN, SAJ                                    Higher Technician Training Course)
…Yagamukama)                                                                                                   D4   -         Assistant Primary Teacher
,-                                     iD7   -  Primary Teacher
L ____   _   _ _    _    _ _ _    ______2                            +             EW     -  Extension  W orker  (Agriculture)
,r i, pSTechnical Education2                                       HT, N           HT   -  Health Technician
/ La;co icadAmitao;AsScnea ecnoy cuue uin.enaLTa  License (Be.A.
Trinin  and Phsica Ed io potsP ic nSoiaSiece;nMicMED -eDoctor in Medicine
A3, ST    A2   A2, SI           N     -  Nurse
PC    -  Primary Certificate
_/The duration 0f the  antaryAssistant raininCourseha been tn     frm twtothreeearsn1981SA    -  Sanitary Assistant
Si    -  Social Instructor
V  Examination                                                             A4         A3                    A2             ST    -  Shorthand Typist
Entry into practical r ife missi
o Law; Economics and Administration; Arts; Sciences and Technology; Agriculture;Education, Secondary Teacher
Training and Physical Education ancl Sports; Political and Social Sciences; and Medicine.
j/Mechanics, Public Works and Construction, Electricity and Electonics, Metalwork, Woodvvork, Masonary, Commerce,
Accountancy and Secretarial Skills, Social Work, Home Economics, Tailoring and Needlevvork, Management, Law, Art.                                               
3J The duration of the Sanitary Assistant Training Course has been extended from two to three years in 1981.                                                                              ;2
Source: Prepared by the mission                                                                                                                    Worid Bank-22918                         H



BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATION PYRAMID 1980/811/
As % of
Levels   Years                       Boys                                                     Girls                    TotalV            Age Group
5                                                   32  3                                                    35
4                                                  177  29                                                  206
Higher     3                                                  261  61                                                  322                   0.7%
2                                                  347   117                                                464
538   228                                                766
1,355 (76%)    438 (24%)                                       1,793 (1%)
84]                                                242  186                                                 428
7                                                 965    459                                               1,398
6                                               1120      544                                              1,644
5                                              1,494      886                                              2,380
Secondary                                                     ,    :|2.6%1
4                                              1,827      951                                              2,788                                                01
3                                             2,338        965                                             3,303
2                                             2,356        966                                             3,322
1                                              1,977      810                                              2,787
12,319 (68%)      5,767 (32%)                                    18,086 (9.0%)
6                         14,521                                       8,823                              23,344
5                        15,034                                          9,943                            24,977
4                        15239,808                                                                        25,021
Primary                                                                                                                                      28.0%
3    16,801                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 10,943            27,744
2                 19,523                                                     12,799                       32,322
1        25,412                                                                    17,036                42,448
106,504 (61%(                                        I                           69,352 (39%)         175,856 (90%)5I
I      I               ~       ~I      I              I               I               I                                                           r-.  H-
30,000         20,000          10,000            0            10,000          20,000         30,000
1J Including post-primary specialized education under the Ministries of Education; Agriculture; Health; Public Works, Energy and
Mines; and Transport, Posts and Telecommunications.
j/ Figure in parentheses indicates share in total enrollments.
~J Excluding 821 students under training abroad.
4/ Includes enrollments in primary teacher training and commercial, industrial, agricultural and health education.
5/ Excludes about 9,300 students enrolled in private non-aided schools and about 1,000-students enrolled in pre-primary courses.
World Bank-24132
Source: Ministries of National Education, Agriculture, Health, and Planning



ANNEX I
CHART 3
-64 -
BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUDATION, 1981
Minister                            University
Planning Office
Inspectorate      |
M_nisters Cabinet                                   National Commission for
Minister's Cabinet                         . IC_ 
.  .        UNESCO 0
World Bank Project Unit j g
I
Accounting Office
Directorate General                 Directorate General                  Directorate General
of Primary Education               of Secondary Education                 of Higher Education       I
Directorate of                      Directorate of                       Directorate of
Primary Education                  Secondary Education                    Higher Education
Rural Education                   Secondary Education
Bureau (BER)                       Bureau (BEPES)   J
Di recto rate of                    Directorate of
Non-Formal Education                    Technical and
Vocational Education
Technical Education  |
Bureau (BEET)    j
Source: Ministry of National Education.
World Bank-22916



ANNEX I
- 65 -                                           CHART 4
BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE RURAL EDUCATION BUREAU
(BUREAU D'EDUCATION RURALE-B.E.R.>
,   SECRETARY
DISTORAGEUAND Dfi            ASSISTANT                                                     ASSISTANT
RIBUTION                  DIRECTOR       IMANAGEMENT COUNCIL                            DIRECTOR
ADMI NIST RATION            MAA  MN  ONIL            }EDUC ATION
TRANSPORTA
|                               ~~~~~~~~~COORD INAT ION
COMMITTEE
GW PW PS AVW ~~ I~EE1EZILEkEi rMEECW  SW
EtITEHEIIH~~~~~~~rK W FW    VDIIe
GENERAL EDUCATION                 RURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAMS AND METHODS
DOCUMENTATION                          TRAINING
EVALUATAION
IN-SERVICE TRAINING
~~cj~~~  wc~~~  ~       (     c. 
ce  LU Ir  Z m        -J        w   ta         2<
AVW~~~~~~~~~~~ - Aui-Vsa Wokso  GW  - Grphc Wokso                          Note <h Irde aoe indicat
Q<   0<       a-~ <    H 
<CWCr   < CraftsWorkshop  PS   - Print Shop      the ProjectImplement
A BB R E V iATiO NS:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Dw   wO                            0 C
DSW  - Domestic Science Workshop       PEW  - Physical Education Workshop                 tion Unit.
ESW  - Environmental Studies Workshop  PW   - Photography Workshop
FW   - French Workshop                 RDW - Rural DevelopmentWorkshop
Source: B.E.R.
World Bank.-22919



BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1982            1983       t       1984            1985              1986              1987          1988
YEARS/QUARTERS                              1   2   3   4    1   2   3         1   2   3   4    i 2 3 14               2   3   4    1   2   3 _          
A.  CIVIL WORKS, FURNITURE
ANC EQUIPMENT
(1)
1.  Multipurpose Learning Centers      a(7)  +++ +.+ ooo  ooo ooo xxx xxx  xxx xxx -   --- ___
(MLC)                             b(7)                      .t- --- ooo  ooo ooo xxx xxx  xxx xxx --- ---  --- -
c(8)                                       +++ +++ ooo  ooo ooo xxx xxx  xxx xxx --- ---  --- ---
2.  Junior Secondary Schools           a(2)        +++ +-+  +++ ooo ooo ooo  xxx xxx xxx xxx  xxx xxx --- ---  --- ---
(JSS)                             b(2)                                                              xxx xxx  xxx xxx xxx xxx  …-- --- --- ---
3.  Teaching Training Institutes       a(1)        +++ +++  ooo ooo TTT xxx  xxx xxx xxx xxx  xxx xxx --- --- … -- ---
(TTI)                             b(1)                                    +++ +++ +++ ooo  ooo ooo xxx xxx  xxx xxx xxx xxx  --- --- -XX    ---
4.  Social Centers                     a(6)    +++ +++ ooo  ooo ooo TTT xxx  xxx xxx xxx ---  --- --- ---
(SC)                              b(7)                      -++ .+. ooo  ooo ooo TTT xxx  xxx xxx xxx ---  .-- --- ---
c(7)                                       +++ +++ ooo  ooo ooo TTT xxx  xxx xxx xxx ---  --- --- ---
5.  Teaching Aid Production                                 4+4 t++ ooo ooo  xxx xxx xxx xxx  /I /// /// /I  Il! /I /I ///  /I /I
B. TECHINICAL ASSISTANCE
1.  Specialists' Services
(120 man-months)                                                 555 444  444 555 555 444  444 555 t11 111 111 111
2.  Fellowships (36 man-months)                                                          4 444  444  44
*** ***  *** *** *** ***  *** *** *** ***  *** *** *** ***  *** *** *** ***  *** *** *** ***  *** ***
C. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
Related Technical Assistance                                              666 666 666 666  666 666 666 666  666 666 666 666  1t1 1 1 111 t11
(228 mian-months) (2)
Legend   + Survey of sites, design work                                                             (1)  Two additional MLCs are included in the two TTIs.
o Preparation of (tender) documents
for civil works, furniture and equipment
T Tendering  and contract awarding                                                         (2)  Until December 1983, specialists' services are
x Construction and manufacturing and delivery                                                   financed under Credit 976-BU.
of furniture and equipment
- Defects and liability period
/ Teaching aid production
1 Man-month of technical assistance
Estimated Key Dates
Credit Signing        4/83
Credit Effectiveness 7/83
Project Completion   12/87
Closing Date          6/88



- 67 -                                ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies Related to Popvlation, Manpower and Education in Burundi
1. Plan Quinquennal de Développement Economique et Social du Burundi, 1978-1982.
Five-year 1978-1982 Development Plan (Main Report and Annexes IV and V)
Ministry of Planning, Bujumbura.
2. L'Economie Burundaise en 1980. Status of Burundi's Economy in 1980, Ministry of
Planning, June 1981.
3. Recensement Général de la Population. Résultats Provisoires.
Population Census. Ministry of Interior, Bujumbura, February 1980.
4. Burundi - Les Effets des Facteurs Démographiques sur le Développement Social et
et Economique.   The Impact of Demographic Factors on Socio-Economic Development
in Burundi, The Futures Group, 1029 Vermont Avenue, N.W., Washington D.C. 20005,
January 1982.
5. Modèle d'Adaptation de La Formation Technique à l'Emploi. Model for Technical
Education adapted to Employment, J. C. Castagnos and C. Echevin, Bujumbura,
February 1981.
6. De Nouvelles Prévisions en Matière des Sortants de l'Enseignement et leurs
Comparaisons avec les Besoins en Personnel Qualifié, 1980-2000. Projections of
School Output and Skilled Manpower Needs, Ministries of Planning, National
Education, and Social Affairs and Labor, January 1981.
7. La Politique de l'Education Nationale, Education Development Policy Paper, MNE,
1982.
8. La Lutte contre l'Analphabétisme au Burundi. Report on Private Literacy
Programs (Yagamukama), Centre d'Entr'aide et de Développement du Burundi,
December 1977.
9. Burundi - Education Sector Memorandum. World Bank Report 3692-BU, November 20,
1981.
10. Burundi - Education: Priorités et Perspectives.
Education Sector Survey. UNESCO, Paris, June 1978.



- 68 -                           ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
l. Etude de Faisabilité de la Double ','.cation et du Passage Atutomatique dans les
Ecoles Primaires du BurLindi.  Study on Dou!,ie Shiftlng and Automatic Promotion in
Primary EducatIon, IMNE/BER, May 1981
2. Evaluation de lEducation de Base au 8turundi.  Evaluation of Basic Education, G.
G. Rauet, Eujumbura, April 1980.
3. Les Déperditions Scolaires dans l'Enseignement Primaire au Burundi.
Promotion, Repetition and Drop-Out in Primnary Education, MNE/Planning Office,
1980.
4. Rapport Final du Séminaire National sur l'Ecole Comzunautaire.
National Seminar on Commur.itv School, 1MNE/-3ER, May 1981.
Proposition de Mise en Place des Nouvelles Ecoles D6 Dour 1982/83.
Proposal for Implementation of the New Primary Teacher Trairing Syst-n in 1982/83,
M*IE/BER, December 1981.
6. Projet Banaue Mondiale Education III.  Description du Projet:           Secteur C
Form&tion Normale 2ricnire.  Description of the New ?rlmarv Teacher Training
Systemri, SNE/BER, February i982.  '11) Secteur D Para£colailrc.  Descriotion of
Practical Subject Pro?,rams for Out-of-School Youths and Primiary Studenzs ir,
Mult.purpose Learning Cer.ters, MNEE'BZR, March 1982.
7. Promoticn Sociale - Ranrort Annuel 1q8l. Social Centers. 1981 Statzstical Year
Book.  Ministry of Social ..ifairs and Labor, 1P81.
8. Proposltion de Regroupement des Cvcles Supérieurs et de révelopcemernt des Cycles
Inférieurs.  Proposal for the Reorganization of Secor.dary Education, :ri2ts,
Marcii 1982.
9. Test Natlona. 82.  Moyennes Par Ecole.   Analysis of 1982 Secondary School
Leaving Examination, MNE/BEPES, June 1982.
10. Requête adrorséa Par le Gouvernement du Burundi à la Banque Mondiale pour le
Financement  ?IInv-estissemencs daris Le Domaine de l'Education.   Governraeut
Request for the financing of a Third Education P'roject, Bujumbura, Mlarch 1982-
C. Working Papers and Tables
1. Architectural Working Papers.
2. Educatioral Working Papers.
3. Education Indicators for ?roject Supervision.



Iran00                                        30' 35
BU RUND
First Education ProjecE Schools.                                                                         THIRD   EDUCATION    PROJECT
49  M,[tîp,rpose Le-nnsg C-onlos (60>             Rnoed-Enusîo  Zone (5)                                                                                                    2ris
G  Prnlico Sk)oî                          --      Mjo Ronds, P-sd
fo-nehInîn  Conter                              oorRonds, Unpnood                                               o'Or1E                   210     32      40      53
Second  docoîin Projns Sohols,  -    S.cosdoîy Rocos, jsponedMisI200
Â oolfor RobI c Works .,lid>yNîoniCpîo                                                                                                                                   
t   oslorFnEdos Trnîning Scinnol           Proornool Copîtols
a  Meconnics Dlepnrîroî                             nonseon   îInc)kot                                            R      WN      A      N       D      A
Bookkoep,ng Deponiment                        4,- rros ss--rIBosnro
Third Ediscorion Proeci ~SchooLs-        -.-Posnrl-t          noro                       
* Multîpurpos- eone CorIer (24> )                                                                                       .--~~
CSocio Conter, (20>                                                                                           Y.                        t
N                                 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
,Kirunîdo    ~ 'c      OOOOO   
r   I             N    ~~~~~~~~~~~~R  W  A  N  D  A    ,                                    »~~00~<-  Y
'N'                               -- A
\  Cibitok.,s,                                                 g          ~           cr,                       ~      ~      - 
KarbV"s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ~~~~~~~~~3 00 
~~MmrEn i g a ~ ~ ~ ~     -Ï a'uz           K,bl~>5   b.
*  Cauks~~~~~~~rn  *  e ~~~~Cankuzo
lR1~ ~ ~ 007N j                                         ,
Bujumhu ra         <ENOH                                 /     -         E,,      ~     BR,roMEn
-sîsoî r,~~A?nJ ,eGitego aî                                               
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U' 3 VA 2TES  'R rE
z  A   1  R   E  I                                   Otîs wo9i roSi    ,                                      s.o,* 
3          5,M B     OR.o,        <r,rb
I~~~~~~SZ
f                                    j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    'Oj 000A A
-'j           flh                                  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A     e    O/iAA                                  3ü0
's ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~GNA
Buro   Boko                           RuaJkîRmba~
-       e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K Ilf   .20-
t E NI E O  J                                                       4'00'~~~RAND
-                 Osier,                                   e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ky
O                                     ukAe Z m AlbAo-
I~~~~~~~~~~AR
N/its',5    i    nAnTAN Ni   ZAA  NeN  n
Nonesoso          -                           .,,o~~~~~~~~~~~-,-'-,-s,. Oss,s2~~- 3  MAAW
h            TANZANIA                                                                          -----'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZA



