Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                          1PY7
Report No P-3526-BU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT ON SDR 14 5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
April 20 1983
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwîse be disclosed wîthout Worid Bank authoruation



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit         =        Burundi Franc (FBu)
US$1.00                        FBu 90
FBu 1                 =        US$0.011
SDR 1.00              =        US$1.08995,
US$1.00               =        SDR 0.91747
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDF            -  African Development Fund
BEET           -  Technical Education Bureau (Bureau d'Etudes de
l'Enseignement Technique)
BEPES          -  Secondary Education Bureau (Bureau d'Etudes des
Programmes de l'Enseignement Secondaire)
BER            -  Primary Education Bureau (Bureau d'Education Rurale)
MLC            -  Multipurpose Learning Center
MNE            - Ministry of National Education
MSA            - Ministry of Social Affairs
PIU            -  Project Implementation Unit (Bureau des Projets Education)
PSTIC          -  Practical Subject Teacher Training Center (Centre de
Formation des Maitres Pratiques)
SC             -  Social Center (Foyer Social)
TTI            -  Primary Teacher Training Institute
YAGAMUKAMA      -  Private Religious Functional Literary Organization
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Republic of Burundi
Amount                       SDR 14.5 million (US$15.8 million)
Terms:                       Standard
Project Description:   (i) Purpose:  To assist the Government in (a) expanding
and improving formal primary and non-formal education
and training in rural areas; (b) expanding junior
secondary education; (c) improving primary teacher
training; and (d) providing technical and logistical
assistance to key ministerial services.
(ii)  Components: (a) the construction, furnishing, and
equipping of twenty-four Multipurpose Learning
Centers; two Primary Teacher Training Institutes
including Junior Secondary Schools; four Junior
Secondary Schools and twenty Rural Social Centers;
(b) materials and equipment for teaching aid
production; and (c) the provision of vehicles,
equipment, specialists' services and fellowships for
project implementation, educational planning and
teacher training.
(iii)  Benefits:  improving the quality, equity, efficiency
and cost-effectiveness of the education subsectors.
At the primary level the Project would increase
enrollment ratio from 29 to 36 percent and develop
practical, community-oriented basic education. At
the secondary level, school capacity would be
încreased by 12 percent, distribution of schools
would be improved and boarding facilities would be
phased out. The Social Centers would offer about
2,500 rural youths and adults, mostly women, the
possibility of upgrading basic skills for self
improvement or employment.
(iv)  Risks: No major risks are anticipated in the
construction and equipment component since major
works would be implemented by the PIU under force
account procedures. As regards the educational
objectives of the Project, the major risk would be
the lack of participation of local communities in
MLC's activities. Careful location of the MLCs and
attention to the requests of local communities would
minimize this risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



US$ (Millions
Local              Foreign            Total
I.   Civil Works, Furniture
and Equipment
1. Multipurpose Training
Centers                       1.13                  2.44             3.57
2. Teacher Training
Institutes                    0.74                  1.61             2.35
3. Junior Secondary
Schools                       0.54                 1.21              1.75
4. Social Centers                0.67                  1.59             2.26
Sub-Total             3.08                  6.85             9.93
II.    Teaching Aid Production           0.04                 1.91              1.95
III.    Project Administration            0.68                 1.99             2.67
Total Base Cost
(January 1, 1983)              3.80                 10.75            14.55
IV.    Contingencies
Physical (8%)                  0.37                  0.73              1.10
Price (23%)                    0.97                  2.68              3.65
Total Project Cost
(I-IV)                       5.14                14.16              19.30
(of which taxes)              (0.7)                  -                (0.7)
(US$ Millîon)
Financing Plan                   Local                     Foreign               Total
Government                        3.50                        _                   3.50
IDA                               1.64                      14.16                15.80
Total                     5.14                      14.16               19.30
Estimated Disbursement:
(US$ Million)
IDA FY         1984        1985        1986       1987        1988
Annual                     1.4         3.2         4.4         4.8         2.0
Cumulative                 1.4        4.6         9.0        13.8        15.8
Appraisal Report: Report No. 4220 BU dated April 20, 1983
Map: IBRD 16655



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the Republic of Burundi for the
equivalent of SDR14.5 million (US$15.8 million) on standard IDA terns
to help finance a Third Education Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum was distributed to the
Executive Directors in March 1981. Updated country data are provided
below and in Annex I.
3.        Background.  With an average GNP per capita of about US$235
in 1981, Burundi is one of the poorest countries in the world and is
designated as "least developed" by the United Nations. Of a population
of about four million, only 100,000 are wage earners; the remainder
depend mainly on subsistence agriculture. The Government is facing
several critical problems in its efforts to develop the economy: the
capability to prepare and manage programs and projects is weak; the
agricultural labor force is largely untrained; and population growth
keeps straining Burundi's productive resources, particularly in
agriculture. Despite a stated policy of "spaced births", the problems
of population pressure cannot be solved in the immediate future. A
major effort must therefore be made to increase agricultural
productivity. During the past decade, per capita agricultural
production has stagnated. The search for more arable land has caused
large-scale deforestation and severe shortage of firewood in the rural
areas, which makes the development of alternative energy sources
urgent.
4.        Burundi is a landlocked country dependent upon limited
transport routes through neighboring countries. Shipments of imports
and exports through the principal outlets via Tanzania have frequently
encountered delays owing to bottlenecks in the port of Dar-es-Salaam,
and underinvestment in the railway link between Tabora and Kigoma on
Lake Tanganyika, and often incur losses because of theft. However,
1/  This part is substantially the same as that in the President's
Report No. P-3250-BU on a Pilot Project to Assist the Local
Construction Industry considered by the Executive Directors on
April 13, 1982.



action is being taken to make external connections more reliable. The
link via Rwanda and Uganda to the port of Mombasa (Kenya) is becoming
increasingly attractive with the continuing improvement of national
highways between Bujumbura and Mombasa.
5.        Government Development Strategy.  Since 1977 the Government
has designed a new strategy to achieve social justice, ethnic
reconciliation and improved living conditions in the rural areas. The
poll tax, which was levied on all males, was replaced by compulsory
deposits which can be withdrawn after three years. In addition, the
traditional obligation for small farmers to provide services to
landowners, in exchange for the right to cultivate land, was
abolished. Likewise, land which was obtained in an irregular manner
for speculative purposes was returned to the State or to the farmers
who cultivated it. Other aspects of the new policies, which are
embodied in the Third Five-Year Plan (1978-82), are: (a) emphasizing
agricultural production to meet the increasing needs for food of the
rapidly growing population; (b) increasing the opportunities and
providing more income to the poorest segments of the population; (c)
raising the investment rate significantly; (d) giving the Government a
more active role in mobilizing financial and manpower resources, and
greater participation in mixed enterprises in the commercial and
productive sectors; and (e) fostering decentralization of economic and
social activity away from the capital city through the creation of
development poles and voluntary settlement of the peasant population in
villages. To facilitate the implementation of its strategy, the
Government strengthened the role of planning by elevating the former
planning organization to the rank of Ministry and by giving it a key
role in selection and monitoring of public investment.
6.        Recent Economic Developments.  The period 1976-81 constitutes
an important phase in Burundi's economic history, as it witnessed an
acceleration of economic growth to an annual average of over 4 percent
in real terms, as well as a major effort by the Government to raise the
country's investment rate, traditionally among the lowest in the
developing world. During this period, the investment rate rose from 9
percent of GDP in 1976 to more than 17 percent of GDP in 1981. This
effort, which was led and implemented by the public sector, had
important repercussions on the pattern of demand, inflation, and the
mobilization of domestic and external financial resources.
7.        The growth of domestic demand in Burundi accelerated at the
end of the 1970s owing mainly to high producer prices for coffee during
1976 and 1977, and to the rapid growth of public sector expenditures
during 1978 and 1979. Public consumption and investment expanded at a
rate almost triple that of the private sector during the period
1976-79. Government expenditures more than doubled in current terms
and increased from about 16 percent of GDP in 1976 to 21 percent in
1979. Capital expenditures, particularly for infrastructure and for



- 3 -
the financing of public enterprises, contributed most to this growth.
The Government overall deficit, which increased from about 3.3 percent
of GDP in 1976 to 7.3 percent in 1979, was covered to an increasing
extent through recourse to the domestie banking system (about half in
1979).
8.        Owing to a significantly lower coffee crop, a fall in the
volume of investment, and a slowdown in Government spending, GDP growth
decelerated during 1980 to 1.8 percent in real terms; expansion of
domestic credit was contained below the 1979 rate; and, in spite of
continued inflationary pressures from abroad, domestie inflation slowed
from about 26 percent in'1979 to about 14 percent.
9.        Burundi's external current account registered surpluses in
1976 and 1977 but showed deficits in 1978-and 1979. In 1979, the
current account deficit was about US$57 million, equivalent to 7
percent of GDP. Underlying this shift was an adverse movement in the
country's terms of trade as well as an unprecedented increase (55
percent) in the volume of imports. Owing mainly to a one-third decline
in the volume of coffee exports, a 16 percent fall in the terms of
trade and notwithstanding a decline in imports in real terms, Burundi's
current account deficit widened to US$100 million in 1980, equivalent
to 11 percent of GDP. The country's growing deficit has been financed
primarily with project-related aid to the Government and parastatals
from multilateral and bilateral agencies.  During 1979-80, these flows
averaged US$64 million per annum (equivalent to 32 percent of Burundi's
1979-80 imports), compared to US$18 million in 1976.
10.       In 1981, the Burundian economy registered significant growth
owing to a resumption of investment activity and an exceptionally good
agricultural crop. According to preliminary data, in 1981 GDP and
investment both grew at about 5 percent in real terms.  Coffee
production increased from about 15,200 tons in 1980 to about 41,000
tons. Because of Burundi's quota under the International Coffee
Agreement (ICA), however, during 1981 coffee exports were limited to
24,000 tons. The increase in export volume more than offset a
significant decline in the world market price. The balance of payments
registered an overall deficit in 1981 of about US$30 million owing
mainly to increased imports, a decline in net capital inflows, and a
depreciation of the banking system's foreign exchange holdings in terms
of the US dollar. By the end of 1981, Burundils gross reserves had
fallen to about US$60 million, equivalent to 3 months of imports of
goods and non-factors services. Domestic inflation slowed down again
in 1981 to about 8-10 percent. The relatively low level of domestic
inflation reflects not only an improvement in supply conditions
(partîcularly of foodstuffs), but also the depressing effects on import



prices, expressed in local currency, of the appreciation of the Burundi
Franc (which, because it is pegged to the US dollar, has followed the
upward movement of the US dollar vis-à-vis the currencies of Burundt's
major European trading partners).
11.       External Assistance, Major Issues and Prospects.  Because of
the unfavorable outlook for world coffee prices, the medium-term
prospects of the economy are not good (coffee exports constitute about
90 percent of Burundi's merchandise exports). According to current
forecasts, the price for coffee could fall by about 35 percent in real
terns between 1978-80 and 1985. The impact of this decline would have
to be absorbed by the small farmers (through lower producer prices in
real terms) and by the Government (through lower coffee tax receipts in
real terms).  Even with a policy of demand restraint, it will be
difficult for Burundi to reduce its current account deficit to below 10
percent GDP.
12.       Burundi's future external capital requirements are therefore
likely to be higher than in the recent past. Although Burundi has been
remarkably successful in mobilizing external resources, recently a few
high priority agricultural projects have not attracted sufficient
financing.  The composition of aid flows also would have to be changed,
since direct balance of payments support (and/or commodity assistance
for essential imports) would have to be provided to a greater extent
than before.
13.       Restraining the growth of domestic demand and stimulating the
productive sectors would help Burundi obtain needed external aid. This
would imply close coordination of policies on several fronts:
Government expenditures, the taxation of consumer goods and imports, as
well as price policies. Together with the Government's investment
program, a more flexible pricing strategy should constitute the
cornerstone of a policy to expand domestic production. Recently, the
Government has taken important steps in this direction by raising
significantly electricity and water tariffs, domestic transport fares,
gasoline retail prices, and by selectively lifting rent controls.
14.       The Government has already taken steps to realign its
investment objectives with the likely availabilitiy of resources, but
an important issue remaining is whether the Government will attain its
objective of directing investment to the productive sectors,
particularly agriculture. Population pressure on available land, and
its adverse effects on soil fertility, foodcrop production and
nutrition, underlines the urgency of accelerating rural development.
The Government recently launched a number of integrated rural
development projects which, over the next few years, are expected to



benefit an increasing number of small farmers. However, the
preparation of integrated rural development projects has been hindered
by limited knowledge of intensified cultural practices and of the
willingness of small farmers to adopt them. The first major projects,
which began implementation in 1981, remain in many respects
experimental and will have to be complemented by adaptive research.
15.       Government policy is to establish regional development
companies (RDCs) to promote integrated rural development, appropriate
technology, village-level organizations, and decentralization of
government services. To this end, the RDCs will manage all
agricultural, forestry and veterinary government staff working in the
*           proposed project areas.  These integrated rural development schemes cut
across the functions of various ministerial departments. Although the
Government expects RDCs to eventually cover part, if not all, of their
expenditures with their own earnings, opportunities to make commercial
profits will only develop slowly, and RDCs will probably depend on
Government budgetary allocations for a number of years. In spite of
this financial dependence, the Government intends to endow the RDCs
with full management autonomy.
16.       Despite certain successes, a number of parastatals have been
affected by inadequate coordination with the central government,
management problems, lack of career incentives for staff, financial
weaknesses and, in the case of agricultural parastatal, lack of small
farmer participation owing to insufficient incentives. Increasing the
efficiency of the paras tatal sector cons titutes a top Government
priority. With IDA assistance (para. 25), the Government is assessing
the situation of the parastatal sector with the intention of providing
it with the resources, autonomy and flexibility it requires to achieve
satisfactory economic and financial performance.
17.       To complement the efforts made by the RDCs, it will also be
necessary to promote rural development more actively by stimulating the
activities of small and decentralized organizations such as
Government-sponsored and private cooperatives as well as private
secular and religious groups, and by supporting the communal efforts
under the sole political (UPRONA) party. The scope and efficiency of
the activities of communes (the basic administrative unit) could be
greatly improved by providing more resources to local authorities.
Available evidence suggests that these organizations can play a key
role as "transmission belts" between the small farmers and the rest of
*            the economy.  Rural development projects now face the difficult
challenge of combining the vertical integration needed for increasing
the production and quality of coffee with the more participatory
arrangements necessary for increasing foodcrop production and meeting



-6-
other basic needs. This reconciliation is critical since the
satisfaction of basic nutritional needs to a large extent guides the
socioeconomic behaviour of the farm family. The scarcity of land is
already such that, in a number of regions, farmers face a choice
between continuing coffee cultivation and gradually shifting to
foodcrop production.
18.       If the Government continues to focus on development, pursues
improvements in policies and strengthens its administration, it may
achieve a steady, albeit slow, improvement in per capita incomes. If
mining of Burundi's nickel resources proves feasible, the prospects
over the next ten years would be much better. However, the commercial
viability of exploiting these deposits has yet to be established.
19.       Regional development in Central Africa will also be important
to Burundi's economy. In September 1976, Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire
signed a convention establishing the "Economic Community of the
Countries of the Great Lakes" (CEPGL). The Community, which has its
seat in Gisenyi, Rwanda, aims inter alla at stimulating and
intensifying intra-regional trade and cooperation in a wide range of
activities. A major objective of the Community is the electrification
of the Great Lakes region. To this end, a regional hydroelectric
project on the Ruzizi River, which is cofinanced by the European
Development Fund, the regional Development Bank (BDEGL - see below),
and Italy, has been negotiated and will be presented to the Board
shortly. The glass container project which was approved by the Board
of IFC in 1981 will be the first major regional industry to be
implemented under the aegis of the CEPGL. The three countries have set
up a joint development bank (BDEGL) to finance regional development
projects, in particular exploitation of methane deposits around Lake
Kivu and development of a fishing industry around Lake Tanganyika.
They have also instructed the secretariat of CEPGL to investigate ways
of improving the transport system around the lake in order to ease the
transport bottlenecks affecting Burundi and Rwanda.
20.       In 1977-80, total long-term capital inflows to Burundi
amounted to about US$220 million, of which US$90 million (41 percent)
was in the form of grants.  Most of the assistance has come from the UN
agencies, the African Development Bank, Belgium, the European
Development Fund, IDA, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the
People's Republic of China. On December 31, 1981, Burundils external
medium and long-term debt amounted to about US$407 million (including
undisbursed amounts), of which IDA held 25 percent.  Debt service                          e
averaged 5.6 percent of export earnings. Notwithstanding the
relatively low debt service ratio, Burundi, because of its poverty and
the instability of its   export earnings, cannot afford to borrow on
commercial terms. External aid should therefore be on grant or very
concessional terms and should continue to include a substantial share
of local cost financing.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
21.     Bank Group assistance started in 1966 and initially foeussed on the
improvement of highway maintenance and construction and the development of
coffee production. Since then Burundi has received twenty credits totalling
US$156 million, mostly for agriculture, infrastructure and human resources
development. As of March 31, 1983, seven credits, totalling US$25 million had
been totally disbursed. IDA is now one of the main sources of financial
assistance to Burundi (para. 20).
22.     One credit (US$1.1 million) helped improve water supply to Bujumbura;
six credits (US$50 million) were for agriculture (two for coffee production, one
for fisheries, one for forestry and two for agricultural development); four
credits (US$44.4 million) helped start and support a highway maintenance and
improvement program; two education credits (US$25.0 million) finance the
improvement of primary education and vocational and technical training; two
credits (US$4.0 million) were made for technical assistance; and the National
Economic Development Bank received a credit of US$3.4 million. A US$15.0
million credit for an Urban Project aims at improving the conditions of the poor
in the city of Bujumbura and a US$7.7 million credit for a Telecommunications
Project will contribute to reducing the country's isolation and improving
internal telecommunications. A Nickel Exploration Project is financing a review
of the viability of exploiting the country's nickel deposits. Finally, a local
construction industry project aims at developing small scale enterprises
operating in this sector and the production and utilization of local
construction materials. In June, 1981, IFC approved a glass container project
(para. 19). Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits, notes on
projects in execution, and the status of disbursements as of March 31, 1983.
23.     After some initial difficulties, performance in project implementation
has improved in most sectors, as indicated by the improvement in the
disbursement rate (para. 24). Most projects have suffered from start-up delays
and some were not completed as initially foreseen because of cost overruns.
Disruptions on Burundi's external supply routes were on several occasions the
cause for these delays. For instance, for most of 1979, equipment, cement and
fuel could not be imported because of the Uganda-Tanzania war. Furthermore,
external difficulties were often compounded by poor project management due to
lack of appropriately trained personnel at all levels and high management
turnover.  This has been remedied through provision of technical assistance in
the case of education, highways, and other infrastructure projects. Technical
assistance has been less successful in improving project management in the case
of agriculture and DFC.  On the whole, given existing constraints, project
performance can be considered satisfactory.
24.     Disbursement performance has improved continuously since 1977.  In
fiscal years 1979-82, disbursements for Burundi totalled US$44.3 million
compared to new commitments of US$65.7 million. In the same period the average
disbursement rate (ratio of disbursements to undisbursed balance) was 24
percent, which is above the average of 21-22 percent for countries of the
Eastern Africa Region.



- 8 -
25.     Future IDA operations in Burundi will aim primarily at increasing
agricultural productivity, improving the transport and communication network,
developing energy resources and strengthening absorptive capacity through
training and technical assistance. A regional hydroelectric project on the
Ruzizi river has been negotiated and will be presented to the Board soon. The
proposed Project would strengthen basic and junior secondary education. A third
technical assistance credit, recently appraised, will continue to assist the
Government in its efforts to improve the planning process and will provide
assistance to improve the management and control of the public enterprise
sector. A rural water supply project and an agriculture project are to be
appraised in FY84. To strengthen the analytical basis for our lending program
and assist the Government in the definition of appropriate sectoral policies,
several sector studies or reports have been recently completed or are underway.
An energy assessment report was issued in June, 1982, and follow up studies,
among which studies to investigate the possibility of importing petroleum at a
lower price than at present, will be financed by the UNDP Bank Joint Management
Program and under the Third Technical Assistance Project. A financial sector
study was recently discussed with the Government. A health and population
study, an agricultural sector report, and an industrial sector study are being
prepared.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
26.     During the first half of this century, formal education was introduced
by Christian missionaries and expanded under Belgian administration. Until
shortly before independence (1962) the main emphasis was placed on primary
schooling. Education was generally based on European patterns with little
relation to the local environment and reached only a small percentage of the
population. In 1962, primary enrollment represented only 18 percent of the
relevant age group. Despite substantial progress since then and in particular
during the period of the Second Plan (1978-1982), the primary enrollment ratio
remains one of the lowest in the world, at 29 percent, and the literacy ratio is
only 25 percent. Although private non-formal institutions (the Yagamukama
Centers) enroll an additional 40 percent of the age group, the education
provided in these institutions does not allow students to proceed to secondary
education. At the secondary education level, the enrollment ratio is also among
the lowest in the world at 2.5 percent and is insufficient to provide an
adequate base for middle-level manpower training programs. The higher education
ratio, at 0.9 percent is quantitatively sufficient for the country manpower
needs although higher education is not fully oriented towards practical
employment requirements.  Since 1973, the Government, with UNESCO assistance,
was introduced a comprehensive reform of the education system to adapt education
to the local environment and make it more responsive to the country's
development needs.



- 9 -
27.     Administration and Planning.  The Ministry of National Education (MNE)
is generally responsible for the development of education policies, management
of the education sector and coordination of vocational training which is under
the jurisdiction of other ministries. The implementation of the primary reform
and the supervision of the primary system has been entrusted to the Rural
Education Bureau (BER), while the reorganization and reform of secondary
education are being introduced under the responsibility of the Secondary
Education Bureau and Inspectorate. The Technical Education Bureau, which was
created in 1977 within the Directorate General of Secondary Education, is
responsible for the development and implementation of technical education
reforms. Educational planning is carried out by a Planning Unit established in
1977.  The Ministry of Social Affairs (MSA) is responsible for the non-formal
*          basic education and training provided to unschooled children and adults in
Social Centers located mainly in rural areas.
Formal Education
28.     Primary Education.  At this level, the 1973 reform emphasized the use of
the national language, Kirundi, instead of French, and initiated courses in
environmental sciences and practical subjects. The basic objective is to
prepare students for productive life in their environment, rather than for the
next level of education.   Primary schools were to be progressively converted
into Multipurpose Learning Centers (MLCs), i.e. community schools for children
and adults which would be the focal point for training, civic activities and
rural development programs. While the reform is still implemented, encouraging
results have been obtained for primary education and "Kirundization" is
generally successful. Although practical subjects are still neglected, and lack
of coordination among agencies involved has prevented primary schools from
becoming effective community schools, efforts are being made to reach these
objectives. Improvements to teacher training programs are underway.
29.     Secondary Education.  Secondary education comprises general secondary
education, teacher training, and vocational and technical courses. General
secondary education, which consists of a common junior course of four years and
a senior level course of three years, has been expanding at about 6 percent per
year between 1978 and 1981, which is in line with the objectives of the
Government. The 1973 reform aimed at diversifying secondary courses in order to
meet manpower needs more adequately. Curricula were to be modified to place
more emphasis on sciences and mathematics and increase the use of the national
language.  The results of the reform so far are mixed: although a greater
diversification has been achieved, the professionalization process aiming at
preparing students for employment upon completion of senior secondary education
has not been successful, as all options, even teacher training, still primarily
prepare for the university due to the prestige of higher education among
students, parents and teachers. In spite of the overall increase in enrollment,
admission to the first year of secondary education has stagnated because of
shortages of student places resulting from increased senior secondary enrollment
and the substantial number of repeaters. The proposed Third Education Project
and the African Development Fund Project (para. 42) would be the first projects
aiming at expanding secondary education since the reform. Further efforts are
being made by the MNE to improve the curricula and teaching methods.



- 10 -
30.     Technical Education.  Skilled worker and middle level technician
training courses of two to four years' duration are given in woodwork,
electrical technology, mechanics, metal work and construction. In addition,
there are three agricultural schools, one school for public works, and four
paramedical training centers. Technical education has been growing rapidly at
about 13 percent per year over the last five years, in line with the 1978-82
Plan targets. Under the reform, new production-oriented curricula have been
introduced, trainees with higher general secondary background have been admitted
and cooperation has been strengthened between the MNE and employers.  The output
is sufficient at present to meet manpower requirements for middle-level
technicians, but is insufficient for semi-skilled and skilled workers.
31.     Higher education is provided by the National University of Burundi which
offers an adequate choice of options and applies international quality
standards. The Government is attempting to reduce training abroad as the
heterogeneous backgrounds and levels of education obtained by students abroad
create difficulties in the work place. Enrollments almost quadrupled between
1974 and 1979. Entrants are now strictly selected and Government fellowships
have been reduced. This has resulted in better control and stabilization of
enrollments at the planned level. In addition, orientation of students has
resulted in better matching of skills with labor market needs.
Non-Formal Education
32.     Non-formal education include: independent religious Yagamukama centers
(para. 26), government-sponsored Social Centers and adult training courses in
the Multipurpose Learning Centers (MLCs). The Yagamukama centers teach
functional literacy and numeracy, crafts, health, nutrition, sanitation and
improved cultivation of foodcrops to primary school age children and adults who
cannot be served by the government system.  These programs have been very
popular and effective considering the scarcity of resources available to them.
However, parents prefer public primary education, when available, as it is the
only program which can lead to secondary education. Adult literacy and training
programs have traditionally been provided by the Social Centers. These Centers
are mostly private organizations, run by religious parishes, which receive a
contribution for recurrent expenditures from the Ministry of Social Affairs.
The rapid increase in the enrollment of the centers is due to their efficient
management and realistic objectives which are geared more to self-improvement
and self-employment than to salaried employment. Since 1980, the Ministry of
National Education also provides a two-year basic program for adults and
unschooled youths in the MLCs (para. 28). The results of this program have so
far been rather disappointing as they were not always adapted to local needs and
sometimes fostered expectations of salaried employment which could not be                  a
fulfilled upon graduation.
Manpower Needs
33.     It is estimated that 95 percent of Burundi's labor force is involved in
subsistence agriculture and that at least one third of manpower resources in
this sector are underutilized. Better education of the rural population is
essential to increase agricultural productivity and for the success of programs
aiming at controlling population growth (para. 3). The modern sector,



- il -
concentrated in Bujumbura, employs only about 100,000 persons in construction,
industry and trade, of which 70 percent are in the public sector. Despite the
small size of the modern sector and the recent increase in the output of
technical education, there remains an imbalance between the needs of the sector
and the output of the education system which does not train enough skilled and
semi-skilled workers.
Education Finance
34.     Public education in Burundi is virtually free for the users and financed
from the budget. However, secondary and higher education students are required
to pay a small fee.  The secondary school fee has recently been doubled from
*        US$11 to US$22 equivalent p.a. per student, and finances about 6% of the
recurrent costs of secondary education.   More than 95 percent of Government
financing of education is through the MNE.  In 1981, total expenditures for
education averaged 15% of total Government expenditures, representing 2.8% of
GDP. The MNE capital expenditures over the last five years have ranged between
3% and 7% of total Government capital investment and are projected to average
about 5% during the remainder of the 1980s. This allocation should be
sufficient as primary and secondary enrollments are to be expanded through less
capital intensive investments than previously (para. 35), even though more
emphasis is being given to school maintenance and rehabilitation.
35.     The share of education recurrent expenditures in the Government's budget
decreased from about 22 percent in 1978 to 19 percent in 1981 and is expected to
return to 22 percent in the late 1980s. While this is a heavy burden on the
Government's budget, it is similar to that of other African countries at a
comparable level of development which give high priority to education. In 1981,
recurrent expenditures for primary education absorbed 43 percent of total
recurrent education expenditures, while recurrent expenditures for secondary and
technical education represented about 28 percent, higher education about 27
percent and non-formal education 2 percent. A more reasonable pattern for the
1980s would be about 50 percent for basic (primary and non-formal) education, 30
percent for secondary, and 20 percent for higher education. These percentages
are consistent with the present targets of the Government to reach a 7-12 age
group enrollment ratio of 80 to 90 percent in basic education (50 percent in
formal primary education and 30 to 40 percent in non-formal programs), an
enrollment of 25,000 at secondary level and of 2,500 students in higher
education by the end of the decade. The targets are realistic provided that the
major cost savings measures already decided upon are implemented. These
measures include: (a) the introduction of double shifting and automatic
promotion at the primary level; (b) the phasing out of boarding at the secondary
level; (c) an increase in secondary school fees; d) more careful screenîng of
entrants and limitation of fellowships at the university level.
36.     External Assistance.  Total foreign aid to the education sector amounted
to an estimated US$30.0 million in 1981, representing about 50 percent of total
educatîon financing.. While the Bank Group is a major source of external
assistance for capital investments in education, a number of other donors
provide substantial technical assistance and some funds for capital projects and
recurrent expenditures in the sector. Belgium is the major source of bilateral
assistance and provides a substantial number of teaching staff, technical



- 12 -
advisers and fellowships. Belgium also provided capital investment for the
extension of the Bujumbura Technical Secondary Sehool and university students'
boarding facilities. The European Development Fund (EDF) provides fellowships
for training overseas and has financed part of the construction of the Faculty
of Agronomy. France provides teaching staff, technical assistance and
facilities for technical education and the Faculty of Medicine. UNDP assistance
has concentrated on textbook production, evaluation and teacher training mainly
for primary education, and the establishment of the Faculty of Engineering. The
World Food Program is providing food aid to assist secondary school boarding.
UNICEF is helping to improve primary school teacher training and non-formal
rural education. Action-Aid, a British non-governmental organization, finances
the construction and furnishing of public primary schools and 75 percent of the
salaries of the teachers staffing these schools.
Bank Group Experience in the Sector
37.     The two education projects financed by IDA were designed to assist the
Government in implementing its educational reform in two particularly critical
sub-sectors, namely primary and technical education. The objective of the First
Education Project (Credit 679-BU) was to assist in introducing the reform of
basic education by expanding the capacity and improving the geographical
distribution of primary schools and primary teacher training institutes and
developing adult non-formal education. Its main components were: (a)
construction and equipping of 100 MLCs and a practical subject teacher training
center; (b) expansion of the MNE printshop and provision of paper, vehicles and
storage facilities; and (c) provision of technical assistance to the Primary
Education Bureau(BER) for the development and production of teaching aids and to
the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The objective of the Second Education
Project (Credit 976-BU) was to assist with the implementation of the reform of
technical education and the training of middle-level technicians and skilled
workers in industrial and tertiary sector trades. It also aimed at
strengthening the MNE's planning, supervisory and project implementation
services. The project includes the construction, furnishing and equipping of
two new boarding technical schools for public works and construction trades, a
Mechanics Department and a Typist and Bookkeeper Training Department in two
existing schools and staff housing.
38.     The PIU is carrying out the construction program of both projects under
force account procedures and coordinating the implementation of other
components. It was necessary to establish the departmental force in May 1978,
when it was found that local building contractors and religious missions were
not in a position to build the MLCs, as originally planned. The PIU is
adequately staffed and is one of the most efficient project units in the
region. The implementation of both projects is satisfactory. The construction
program under the First Project stopped for nine months in 1978-79 because of an
interruption in supply of cement due to the Uganda-Tanzania conflict. When it
resumed in 1980, the price of cement had increased from US$120 per ton at
appraisal in 1977 to about US$300. For these reasons and because of the
enlargement in the scope of some works, requested by the Government, the project
encountered cost overruns estimated at $4.0 million dollars. As no
supplementary financing was available, the project scope was reduced and only 50
MLCs will be built. Some equipment and materials which had been purchased at



- 13 -
the start of the Project, but were no longer needed because of the'reduction in
project scope, and technical assistance services were used to start building the
schools of the Second Project, which resulted in savings of about US$1.0 million
under the Second Project. The development of teaching aids proceeded well
although problems were encountered in their production and distribution. The
situation improved following the replacement of the manager of the printshop.
The technical assistance and fellowship program was generally satisfactory. The
adult education programs had disappointing results as insufficient attention was
given to local constraints and needs and the programs created expectations of
salaried employment which could not be fulfilled. The objectives and content of
the programs are being reviewed. The credit was fully disbursed by the original
closing date of March 31, 1983. The implementation of the Second Education
Project has been far smoother as the PIU is now experienced and fully
operational. The construction of the two new school departments has been
cowpleted ahead of schedule, and the other two major schools will be completed
on schedule. The Project Unit is conducting a survey of secondary school
maintenance and equipment needs. The Planning Unit and the Technical Education
Bureau have been strengthened. The Planning Unit is preparing a school map and
the Technical Education Bureau is redesigning the curriculum of technical
schools, in cooperation with employers, to make it more practical. As the cost
of the project is expected to be lower than estimated, because of the use of
resources of the First Project and of early completion of works, the Development
Credit Agreement was amended to finance construction and equipment of twenty
five of the fifty MLCs which could not be financed under the First Project and
the maintenance and improvement of five secondary schools.
39.     During the implementation of the First and Second projects, and the
preparation of the proposed project, discussions took place with the Government
on such sector issues as equitable access to primary education and distribution
of project schools throughout the country (paras. 28, 43 and 48), rural
orientation of the primary course, curriculum and textbook development aiming at
more self-contained programs at the various levels (paras. 28 and 37);
non-formal versus formal education and cooperation with private education and
self-help programs (para. 32); teacher training (paras. 28 and 37); educational
planning and management (paras. 48 and 49); and cost recovery measures (para.
35). As a result of this dialogue, several decisions have been taken by the
Government which will result in a more efficient and equitable education system.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.     The proposed Project was identified by a UNESCO Mission in March 1982
and prepared by the Government with UNESCO's assistance. Appraisal took place
in June 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington from March 23 to 25, 1983.
The delegation from Burundi was led by Mr. Isidore Hakizimana, Minister  of
National Education. A Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 4220-BU dated April
20, 1983) is being circulated to the Executive Directors separately. The main
features of the project are highlighted in the Credit and Project Summary given
at the beginning of this Report. Special conditions of the Credit are
summarized in Annex III.



- 14 -
Objectives and Description of the Project
41.     The Project would assist the Government in:
(a) expanding and improving formal primary education and primary
teacher training as well as improving textbook production
and distribution;
(b) expanding junior secondary education and improving its distribution,
to provide a better general education base for manpower training
programs at middle levels, and to progressively phase out secondary
boarding facilities;
(c) expanding non-formal education and training to reduce illit-
eracy and provide follow-up training to primary leavers and
new literates; and
(d) providing technical and logistical assistance to key minis-
terial services.
42.     Specifically, the project would finance: (a) the construction,
furnishing and equipping of twenty four Multipurpose Learning Centers; two
Primary Teacher Training Institutes including Junior Secondary Schools, four
Junior Secondary Schools; and twenty Rural Social Centers; (b) materials and
equipment for teaching aid production; and (c) the provision of vehicles,
equipment and specialists' services for project implementation, educational
planning and teacher training. It is expected that the African Development Fund
(AfDF) will finance a complementary project in 1984 to further assist primary
teacher training and junior secondary education. The total cost of the AfDF
project would be about US$12.5 million. Both projects would be implemented
according to similar construction and education standards. However, each
project would be justified on its own merits and could be implemented
independently. The AfDF Project is expected to be appraised in the second half
of 1983.
Primary Education
43.     Multipurpose Learning Centers (MLCs).  The project would finance the
construction and equipping of twenty-four MLCs providing 5,760 new student
places. Each MLC would include six-classroom units offering a full primary
course on a double shift basis.  To accommodate the double shift system, MLCs
would be located in order to ensure that there is no competition with existing
schools and that a sufficient number of prospective entrants live within
acceptable walking distance. (Section 3.04 (b) and (c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). As the experience under the First Education Project has
demonstrated that the commitment of local communities and authorities and the
proximity of water were essential to the successful operation of the MLCs, it
was agreed during negotiations that MLCs would be located in areas where they
are requested by the local authorities, and where there is a source of water in
the vicinity. (Section 3.04 (a) and (d) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). In addition to the primary course, the MLCs would also provide
literacy and multipurpose rural training in home economics, agriculture, animal
husbandry, masonry and woodwork to about 1,500 adults and out-of-schools
youths.



- 15 -
44.     Teacher Training Institutes (TTIs).  The Project would finance the
construction and equipping of two primary TTIs in order to assist in expanding
and regionalizing teacher training. Five additional institutes are expected to
be financed by the AfDF (para. 42).  The TTIs would include a junior secondary
course providing the regular four-year lower secondary program with an
enrollment of 320 per school and a two-year teacher training course, with an
enrollment of 160 per school. This new six-year program (D6) presently under
experimentation will progressively replace the five-year course (D4) which
trains assistant primary teachers and the eight-year course (D7) which trains
primary teachers. D6 teachers will be better trained than the present D4s and
will have higher pay and status. As they will be obligated to serve for five
years as primary teachers and would need an extra year of education before
qualifying for the University, it is expected that they will serve longer than
the present D7s. To provide better training conditions, all teacher trainees
would be boarders. The University of Burundi and the Practical Subject Teacher
Training Center now provide a sufficient number of teacher trainers for the
TTIs. However, to ensure high quality training, it would be necessary to
establish a new corps of trainers who would be selected following an upgrading
and orientation course. It was agreed during negotiations that (a) the
proposals for the upgrading program would be furnished to the Association not
later than June 30, 1984; (b) the training program would be introduced by
September 30, 1984 and (c) the TTI's to be constructed under the Project would
be staffed by September 1, 1985 with experienced teacher trainers acceptable to
the Association who have satisfactorily completed the upgrading program
(Sections 3.05 and 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Junior Secondary Schools (JSS)
45.     In addition to the two schools located within the TTIs, the proposed
Project would finance the construction and equipping of four JSSs offering 320
student places each. The AfDF would finance three additional schools. As the
Government intends to phase out boarding in secondary schools to save costs
(para. 35), it is necessary to ensure that these schools are located within an
acceptable walking distance for qualified new entrants. As part of the broader
countrywide school mapping exercise, a limited mapping was carried out to
demonstrate that the location of the JSS makes them easily accessible to their
students.
Social Centers (SC)
46.     The project would finance the extension of 18 Social Centers (SCs) and
the establishment of two new SCs, which would provide 2,400 student places for
rural youths and adults, mostly women. This would represent a 33 percent
increase as compared with present enrollment. Most of the centers would be
located in rural areas where the primary enrollment ratio is below the national
average (29%), where local populations and authorities have requested them or
where SCs have been successful in the past. Two centers would operate in
communes where, although enrollment ratios are above the national average, the
prospects for marketing their craft production are very good. Wherever
possible, Project SCs would operate as production units and would provide
courses in textile dying and printing, cotton weaving, tailoring, market
gardening, animal breeding, masoury and woodworking. No difficulty is expected
in recruiting additional teachers and instructors for the SCs since staff could
be drawn from the Social Worker Training Schools and Teacher Training Institutes
or would be recruited among the most qualified graduates of the SCs. SC
graduates could also become practical subject instructors for the MLCs.



- 16 -
Teaching/Learning Aid Production and Distribution
47.     The Project would provide (a) 200 tons of paper and printing materials,
to produce about 800,000 students' textbooks and about 120,000 teachers' guides
and related literature; (b) complementary printing equipment to rationalize and
improve the output of the printshop; and (c) vehicles, to deliver the teaching
aids to the schools. National technicians would be trained to progressively
replace expatriates in the printshop (para. 50). It was agreed at negotiations
that the Government would appoint four national technicians to the printshop,
namely one maintenance mechanic, one textbook designer, one production manager
and one photo compositor by September 30, 1983 at the latest. These
technicians, whose qualifications and experience would be satisfactory to the                   A
Association, would receive fellowships and would commit themselves to serve at
the printshop for at least five years upon completion of their fellowship
(Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
48.     The management of the printshop, presently under the BER, has strained
the resources of the Bureau. This has resulted in planning and managerial
deficiencies detrimental to the production and distribution of textbooks. As a
condition of Credit effectiveness, the printshop would become a separate unit,
assisted by the PIU, and placed under the direct authority of the Minister of
National Education, (Section 5.01 (c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Thus teaching aid production and distribution would benefit from
the high quality and efficiency of PIU management for accounting, procurement
and transportation in rural areas. To facilitate coordination between textbook
development, which will remain under the BER, and textbook production, a
teaching/learning aid production plan, satisfactory to the Association, would be
established annually by the Ministry of National Education, presented to the
Association for comments by July 1 each year, starting from July 1, 1983, and
adopted no later than September 1 of each year (Section 3.09 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
School Mapping
49.     The Planning Unit of the MNE  has begun a countrywide school mapping
exercise (para. 45) which is essential to correct the present erratic
distribution of schools, reorganize secondary education, phase out boarding
facilities at the secondary level and obtain the highest possible return from
the recent decision to introduce double-shifting and automatic promotion at the
primary level. The overall country school mapping exercise would be completed
by June 30, 1985 (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).  To
assist the Unit in this task, the Project would finance short term
consultancies, equipment, materials and part of the operating costs.
Project Implementation
50.     The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be responsible for the
execution of the Project including administrative and financial control, and
coordination with the various ministries and agencies involved. The Unit is
presently headed by a Burundian director assisted by a chief architect, a
procurement officer, an accountant and four architects and engineers, most of



- 17 -
whom are financed under the Second Education Project until January 1, 1984;
these positions would continue to be financed under the Third Project (nineteen
man-years). In addition to the staff of the Project Unit, the Project would
finance the services of: (a) two teacher training specialists to assist the BER
with the implementation of the new D6 teacher training and upgrading programs
(four man-years); (b) a printshop manager (three man-years); and (c) one or two
specialists in rural women's education and training (two man-years). (Section
3.02 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
51.     The PIU would carry out the design and supervision of construction of
all buildings under the Project. It would also carry out most of the
construction works under force account procedures. Experience of the First and
Second Education Projects has shown that the private construction industry is
either not interested or not yet ready to effectively implement construction
programs such as the one proposed under the project. Therefore, the use of
force account procedures, under the prevailing circumstances, appears to be the
most effective method to carry out the work in the remote rural areas of the
country. However, about ten schools located in the vicinity of urban areas
would be subject to local competitive bidding to provide continued cost
comparison and work opportunities for the local construction industry.
52.     Project Cost and Financing.  As of January 1, 1983, the total cost of
the project has been estimated at US$19.3 million (including domestic taxes
amounting to about US$0.7 million) of which US$14.2 million (or 73 percent) in
foreign exchange. The cost of technical assistance, representing 29 man-years
of specialists' services and 3 man-years of fellowships, is estimated at US$2.9
million including contingencies. The average man-month cost of experts services
including international travel and housing allowance would be US$ 8,750 for
experts assisting the Ministry, who are likely to be recruited through United
Nations Agencies, and US$5,400 for the six PIU specialists who will be recruited
under individual contracts. Price contingencies are based on estimates of
inflation rates, both international and local, as follows: 1983 - international
8.0%; local 15%; 1984 - international 7.5%; local 15.0%; 1985 - international
7.0%; local 12.0%; 1986 - international 6.0%; local 12.0%; 1987 - international
6.0%; local 12.0%. For physical contingencies, 10% has been added to the base
costs, except for equipment (5%) and technical assistance (nil). All sites have
been selected. Preliminary designs have been completed and furniture and
equipment lists are expected to be completed by April 1983. Tender documents
and construction specifications, developed under the first two education
projects, are being adjusted for the proposed project.  The proposed US$15.8
million IDA Credit would finance about 85% percent of total project cost net of
taxes. This proportion of IDA financing, including the financing of US$1.6
million of local costs, is justified in view of Burundi's very limited financial
resources (para. 20). The Government's net contribution would amount to US$2.8
million which would represent about 15.0 percent of project costs excluding
taxes. Incremental recurrent expenditures generated by the project have been
estimated at about US$1.1 million equivalent annually, not including the
contribution of local communities (para. 54), which amounts to about 4.0 % of
the recurrent budget of the Ministry of National Education in 1982. This
increase appears reasonable considering that the recurrent budget of the
Ministry of Education is expected to increase by about 3 percent a year during
Project implementation.



- 18 -
53.     Cost Recovery.  A small portion of recurrent costs generated by the
project would be recovered through the secondary school fees (para. 34), the
sale of textbooks, the sale of products from the MLC and SC workshops and
agricultural projects. The amount which would be recovered cannot be precisely
estimated but could represent about 2 percent of recurrent costs of secondary
education. In addition, local communities are expected to contribute to the
cost of upkeep and maintenance of school facilities.
54.     Special Account.  Foreign suppliers will be paid directly by the
Asssociation on behalf of the Project Unit as under the previous projects. In
order to ensure that funds for the project's local costs would be made available
when needed, a Special Account, operated by the PIU and financed by the project,
would be established in a commercial bank. An initial deposit of US$750,000
would be made from the credit at the time of effectiveness; the account would be
replenished on the basis of documentary and other evidence, to be provided to
the Association by PIU, of payments made from the account for goods and services
required for the project (Section 2.03 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Establishment of the Special Account on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association would be a condition of Credit effectiveness
(Section 5.01 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In order to
ensure that the Government's counterpart funds also would be available when
needed, the Government would establish as a condition of Credit effectiveness a
separate Project Advance Account with an initial deposit of FBU31.5 million.
Thereafter, at the beginning of each semester, the account would be replenished
with at least the same amount, corresponding to the Government's share of
project costs for that semester (Sections 5.01 (b) and 3.01 (b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
55.     As indicated above (para. 51), the PIU would carry out the major part of
the construction (US$9.2 million, out of which US$5.0 million for materials to
be procured by ICB) through force account. It is expected that the remaining
civil works (US$1.6 million) would be carried out by local contractors under
contracts awarded in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures which
are acceptable to the Association. The PIU would also continue to sub-contract
to private firms most of the transport of materials, the supply of local
building materials, plumbing and electrical installation; these contracts would
be awarded in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
the Association. Furniture, equipment and vehicle contracts are estimated at
US$4,2 million including contingencies. Of these, an estimated US$3.3 million
would be awarded on the basis of ICB in accordance with the Bank Group's
guidelines for procurement, except for contracts costing less than US$100,000
equivalent each, which would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the
Association up to an aggregate amount of US$900,000. Contracts for furniture
and equipment would be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage
competitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement. Domestic manufacturers of
furniture and equipment would be allowed a preference of 15% over the c.i.f.
price of competing foreign suppliers, or the existing applicable rate of import
duties, whichever is lower. Specialists and consultants would be recruited in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.



- 19 -
Disbursement
56.     Disbursement would be as follows: 70% of total expenditures for civil
-works; 100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures, respectively,
for construction materials, furniture, equipment and vehicles; 100% of foreign
expenditures and 80% of local expenditures for consultants and specialists
services; 100% of foreign expenditures for fellowships; 50% of total
expenditures for salaries of the Project Unit's staff and operating costs of the
PIU. An initial deposit of US$750,000 would be made into the Special Accov'r
In order to ensure prompt project start-up, retroactive financing of up to
US$1.0 million equivalent would be available for expenditures incurred after May
1, 1983 for technical assistance, civil works and the purchase of construction
materials. All disbursements would be fully documented except for: (a) work
executed by the PIU utilizing force account methods; and (b) salaries and other
operating expenses for project administration, for which disbursements would be
made against certificates of expenditure to be signed by the Director of the
PIU.
Audit
57.     As under the two preceding projects the PIU would maintain separate
accounts for all project activities in conformity with national accounting
practices. No later than six months after the close of each government fiscal
year, the management of the project would submit to IDA suitable financial
statements. Financial statements are currently audited by Ministry of Finance
officials. For the proposed project, it was agreed during negotiations that
project accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors, acceptable
to IDA (Section 4.01 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Particular
attention would be given to expenditures reimbursed under certificates of
expenditures.
Benefits
58.     The expansion of basic education would benefit about 13,000 primary
school-age children, out-of-school youths and adults every year. At the end of
the project implementation period, primary enrollment would have increased by
about 7 percent over the 1980/81 level. The teacher training component would
provide 960 additional student places. This would help the Government to
establish an improved primary teacher training system in new facilities. The
Junior Secondary Schools would benefit about 1,300 students annually and would
assist the Government in increasing the capacity of secondary education,
redistribute it on a district basis in areas so far deprived of secondary
education facilities, and phase out costly boarding facilities. Together with
r        the TTIs, the Junior Secondary School component would increase the very low
capacity of secondary school (paras. 26 and 29) by 12 percent, which would
relieve the bottleneck between primary and secondary education and allow
admission to secondary schools to increase by 17 percent. The Project Social
Centers would offer about 2,500 rural youths and adults, mostly women, the
possibility of upgrading their basic skills, for self-improvement or employment
and would complement the activities of the MLCs. This project component would
encourage the coordination of activities of two major ministries (MSA and MNE)



- 20 -
and private agencies involved in nonformal rural education. The
teaching/learning aid component would benefit all primary schools, and would
provide an opportunity to coordinate bilateral and multilateral assistance in
this field through the establishment of an annual production plan.
Risks
59.     No major risks are anticipated for the construction and equipment
component as major works would be implemented by the PIU under force account
procedures. Regarding the educational objectives of the project, the major risk
would be the lack of participation of local communities in MLCs activities.
However, careful location of the MLCs, taking into account the request of local
communities would minimize the risk. Difficulties may also be expected in
implementing double-shifting in a number of schools in areas where the
population is widely scattered. The ongoing school mapping exercise should
reduce this risk. There is also a possibility that automatic promotion may
result in a deterioration of the quality of education as long as primary
teachers are insufficiently qualified. The strengthening of primary teacher
training, which this project would support, would help reduce this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Burundi
and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
61.     Special conditions of the Credit are listed in Annex III of this
report.  Special conditions  of Credit effectiveness would be (a) the opening of
the Special Account (para. 54); (b) the opening of an Advance Account and
deposit of FBU 31.5 million (para. 54); and (c) the establishment of the
teaching aid unit as a separate unit (para. 48).
62.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen,
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 20, 1983



- 21 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
BURUNDI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BURUNDI                        REFERENCE GROUPS (UEIGHTED AVEnGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             27.8                                  MOST RECEIT            LO7 INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       17.2              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SARARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   60.0        200.0    235.0 Il/              250.8                   1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       10.8/c       10.8      16.6                  66.5                     610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  2851.0        3350.0    4097.0
ERBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  2.2           2.2       2.3                  17.8                     28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         6.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          18.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2130
POPULATION DENSITY
t                             PER SQ. FC4.                       102.4       120.4      144.5                  27.7                     54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    176.0        203.4      233.6                  86.7                    129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.6        43.8       43.9                  44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                          54.6        53.2       53.0                  52.3                     51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.9          3.0       3.1                   2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROETH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.6          1.6       2.0                   2.7                      2.8
URRBAN                              1.6          1.6       2.5                   6.2                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTE RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.9         44.4      45.5                  47.3                     47.2
CRUDE DEATB RATE (PER THOUSAND)      26.7         24.1      22.2                  19.5                     15.7
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0          2.9       3.1                   3.2                      3.2
FAMILT PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..
1S5ERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED W5OMEN)    ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          103.0        100.0      99.0                  88.7                     90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQIIIREMENTS)                   97.3        98.4       99.1/d                90.2                     93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           60.2        60.7       61.2/d                53.1                     54.8
OF N11H1CH ANIMAL AND PULSE      30.1         29.7      30.6/d                18.4                     17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      32.8         29.4      24.6                  26.7                     23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.2          39.7      41.9                  45.6                     51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           150.3        138.7     121.6                 129.9                    118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE NATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..                  23.9
IRBAN                                ..         77.0      94.0                  54.9
RURAL                                ..           ..        ,.                  18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..                  25.8
UIRBAN                               ..         96. 0     95.0                  63.1
t                             RURAL                                 ..          ..        ..                  20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          96566.7     55833.3   45020.0/e              32097.3                  14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4526.6       7494.4    6180.0/e              3264.6                   2213.2
POPULATION PER NOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             877.6        744.4        ..                1225.0                   1036.4
URBAN                              27.3        113.4        ..                 249.5                    430.8
RURAL                            3723.1       1074.9        ..                1712.1                   3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL SPD             ..          .. B.
HODSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OS PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTA1,                               ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCPSS TO ELFCTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DUIELLINrS)
TOTAL
IREAN
RURAL
J/ Atlas methodolcgy (1979-81 base period) estimates.



- 22 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
BURUNDI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHIET
BURUNDI                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  |b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOLiTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  18.0        27.0       23.0.1                 63.2                     83.3
MALE                  27.0         37.0      28.0 12                72.7                      96.1
FEMALE                 9.0         18.0      18.0 /3                50.3                      80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   1.0          2.0       2.0 14                10.2                     15.3
MALE                   1.0          3.0       3.0/5                 13.2                      19.4
FEMALE                 1.0          1.0       2.0/6                  6.6                      11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY) 35.0            23.7      11.9/d 17               7.9                      4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRlMARY                             35.7         36.7      32.8-                  47.4                     38.6
SECONDARY                           14.9         11.2      18.8|d t9              26.2                     23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         13.9/c         ..      22.6 /L1               34.0                      35.6
CONSUI4PTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.1          1.1       1.3/f                  3.0                     31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          20.0         19.4      37.3                   34.8                     71.8
TV RECEIVERS FER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..                   1.7                     17.9
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..          0.1       0.4/e                  2.9                     19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  O.1/c           ..       0.0                    1.1                      0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1494.5      1676.1    1944.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    45.9        45.3       45.1                   34.1                     36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               90.0        87.0       84.0                   78.4                     56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.0          4.0        5.0                   9.2                      17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 52.4         50.0      47.5                   41.4                     37.0
MALE                                  58.3         56.0      53.9                   53.9                     46.9
FEMALE                                46.9         44.4      41.5                   29.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9          0.9        1.0                   1.2                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVEID BY
HlGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HCUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     213.0                  134.3                    507.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     136.0                   82.9                    200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME                                                                                                                     a
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                   96.4                    523.9
RURAL                                 ,.          ..       37.0                   60.4                    203.6
ESTIMATED POPnLATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      55.0                   39.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      85.0                   69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages -for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic neans.  Coverage of countries
amoog the i.dicators depends on availability of data and is not unifotm.
/b  [Jnless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1962; /d 1977; /e 1975; /f 1976.
The following figures reflect the eost lrecentiv available estimrates
1/  29.0       21  35.0       3/  23.0       4/  2.6       5/  3.5
6/  1.7        7/  18.0       8/  37.0       9/  14.4      10/  25.0
Febru.ry 1983



- 23 -
ANNEX I
uwrie  FuPu  fcw                                                    Page  3 of 5
Âf: tho.eg  cl data arr J-n  trot souce  Pnotely jodsed thl  -ot  aaIrraleadrtaie   il  htetd alto ta nard tt thl! t, att ta dote--
tefaalytnaIbn  blase  ai tht loti ot erodardleeddt ittioa   retpt. osa  hy ditfarter coatitnl  oien                                   tht data.  Trt. Ue  at,es
Tht rtarttt  groualun  <1) thr auo  outr .oop cf oh. atbjtcso...orya . (2> )              osr   roop dî  tuthb    highrat teruat            - Itt n-ts   th .. totty Sroup
ofttabeI -toory (re.tap   for   "Utgh I-co          tt totrra          . ap  tirer  'Niddle lotte   -loot  Mo.i.. ood Riddit tEst" te  htoon  becatar ofstor
ocoa-tliaoluffotret .b  th.  anec   groTp data tht  cog.  are population etghttd atittetrit   -a  for - tout idlteto   Ild sthte  taly t
njorfty ofth. ooortat  a grt-p boa dora for- a  ledtt rr.Stor  fh.  -aorgt o> ooorfaot                                  thtelotr  depoodo ao thl ardlodlttpy ot data
ted lau  strioe  oaio tue  ho eoroto                  te rltiog oegsof ea-oiatrt   uthtr.  Thtst tertges are oly aunfe1 ln no.ptteg In. otit  of
eta Srdloef. or ut   tint  --ot  tht ro...try Il  .eruegroa
AMI  (tiot..ed aqi.>                                                                                tucis  u    urtt  e      onl   re,  e   ua                     Popultion  (total,
Total - T.ttn  srfc  ern  captctg laod eIl   atd  eioe.dvtrs  1979 dore.                           aIre nd rarel,) dlidrd  by tInt  reepotî   nate  oth. topital tod
Batonoa     ttet  ot ogrtalrte1 trlu  -d toatorolily et potaetati                          evelieti  la prklir ced prteute        -I. Ieerl a    pottlteed Ilopita1 ladte
for .ropa, pastotea, errke  ueo klate- grdtu on Lt lin  tEiia; 1929 dutu.                        hbtiliItalt  crtae   tespittic ara netalihia tne     peteatly ctsffd
iby AIi ...a  autn phyt~itt.  ttbitenepro-dang prîtipti,lycat.o
Ol   l   dIl(US$) -G19  pot copio nerintot ut cur-eet satt priots. . ca-                     dio   ar   -t rt icloded.  Roti1 hoapitale. hoane, lauluda hoaltt
orlao   y ee  corrieetttd al Oorld  eatk .irf. ta1979-80 taa>  19M.                           aed todital toror  at,   t pornetly atafod by e phoottiat (hot ty o
1970, aed 1980 data.                                                                               tod ito        l saîtat  are    ldttfn,  ttc.>  eah attet lt-patineruos
datica ted protide a liettod rout  cf adicaiteilrie.Po  atate-
INUIT CittSUSPTl0N PER CUPITA - Acnalotueinof cooil   gey> (otel                                     tîce1 pooPese  urtbe heepitel. laelado 98epinpa/rra.t iae
ted luaite. ptroln,a,  autare  att ou  hydt--  -uce-  ud georite-i ola-                  ted -taNIt tIra.I., mati or tete  thapatat -ad edice1 aud ~t_ton
c-                    er~~~~~~icîty) la  îooaeu  cooA -l neol    po   aIa   960. 1970. ueO 1979                          crie.Spetalieed h.spit.la  on 1lrlded yoipodetI  toa.
doat..                                                                                            dleoerrfeptild-Total eabn  etsdtsîu   ta otOdiergos.
POPULATION AND VITAL. STATISTICS
TotalPelei1           NdTe  (tioe_de)     A. of JlyI 1; 1960. 1970, aed 1980                  »Mrtît
da.t.                                                                                         Âare   inc    oail rrutrr IoeloIld -tte.aut t                              ed rota--
Irtt  ectaia  (rrtto   oe>-tR.it o> cr10 te Itota  popoletior;                                     A, thehl   etesc      topa   oitut                        in ...ogqatter
Y                                itno  detinitioau  cf oct. ut     -eeY affect ooraocbilttp cf dota                              ted t~iIr toto naî.  A baurdr or lodger  -ay orta -y t be  frlodnd i
tnt.g  otare;1961, 1970, od198t doae.                                                                    ...  iccIod.fortoirto    apma
Popotatino Projections                                                ioeraeeooéor: cf  eton   pet.. roe tota, uion., od total   -               AcSeg   tus-
PParaerte. an cn-  2000 - Coccro  popatocico prolectioce are ta...d or 1980                     ba   fpcoeptca.I   i   ca,ad rural accapid coanoo
Itota  popalurian ty agt od uo ood te    ourrat iiy aed frrrlily cîo                           elig,ratîoi.cttoeoîaotpneatrurren
int lafe nopacra...t  bith .Ioo...eg titi coatty'a por catira ittat                         Mot  to El-rtioiecj (croero  delee   -toal   ctt,ad tart 
lece  l,  t  laroî  il t  rpo ,1toocY oroiliio   aig I77.5 yorns.  Tir para-                  Ccteltn    ulirga tt   tccor        itgq rr   sprtri
neafoc ferrtity rero cIre htet rIrce 1eoîr  aea1              decline an                 cf ratul, achat, ad cote1 dnrllotnneI.pnctioniy.
fcrtiitttaocd tOtcicrctu            - oniad pue  (eellc  pleato  prortto
flot ocur.   thno eteltord ccc ortetctceorlccf thc-ltcI.tIdlf
aod f.terriY lo   rocd  for projeoretocro                                                   e iaa.ttd  -orcleet aoloes
Sttaiocaca torc1.iar    - it     ttiec .    papulatc   rhinela ec .  gocoh aicr                  Pritara actai - total, nie aed tesole - I... ratIl, toto ad fetole
rh ieticrh cure lu tqaitr tis   cairae  toIh    -  alecre .       rIl uctg r ce-ocrlnot cf ail aga an th. pticary 1-etel t   otorgaa  crrt
oceeoot.Thia ta arhloood colo oItrn  ftctili   tnn  dnctionI roPrtar   tohcel-tor papalatie..s; cttealYiy atlde- ohi"d-, egrd 1-il
rithp.    oun  leet cf acît ro  rpcdatlt  ut., ete- ceci gt...tar                                 oor  b- aodja.ttd ta- dif.Ir.tre  tetete cf prietoyedacotîe; fo
o> cen  cepla.o. itself otoottly.  Thir nttiouey popalutian rit  et                               tornnt it toue  odaoetin                          -elertaY nxod 100 ponceot
_tirlec  co rth  bceit cf rt  pI.jootd obrttt. tr   f th. popato--o                              eioc na     papilr Ile be1t or ab.thrri   ffiolo1 schcol ag..
fo rie y_oc 20008 l I. e,  i  tan  of dtcllso ti fnrility cote tc replac-.tooooalo -, ttl,tletd  eal   Couutnd ue  bhoo; eocotdary
ne -lco.                                                                                      cd,ot rqaIrnst laaert f-t  ynu-  cf appro-d pi-ayienote
9  "nootacoeac   pouaro  le roocitd - Thl y-a  choc utonra...   pcaanc                          pratîdre geccrai,Itcfît l,o   _oaIo_  IcIItdgoo Ilotd.. for papîle
aile tIlt ho  e-Ied.                                                                             aoa_lly ot i2 ta 17 peuru cf uectcptdoettoor rl                            ol
Pet te. le. -  id-pour ptpaI~ioti   ao-  kqoc ilcet-r (lO  fotuor   f                         tao  c        eaior(cencur cf tecoodecyt-coreittinroa
toa ca   960, 1971 ccd 1979 data.                                                      icico       hrieo1,  ldatia,      hccre  pregotat cuioooeteeod
ftn  ra. Lt. aela   laan ad -                ..eacda  oboc  for ugrica1tuca1  lot                rotly o   ndpottn    f erocdacy ioeItttto
otly; 16 1971 tId 1979 data.                                                                 ac-tootrio-cIrecy. crIl                   arap  Tot ta  rtdnorecrcln lei
lpacietiorAlot Stcoto   (troonor>  -ltdco(0-14 ynea.I             nckio-aa   ii-                  ccieeccteduooo      _c ico     dlode  t  tair-cueaio  l   i
64 y_ucr>,Ildreîr   (il potea aId  -ee) orpocttge   f rid-y..' topa-                             ccoe   -nle   et..
itc;1961. 1970. ar  1000 dtro.                                                            edaltlioayre (procent) - Lit-raroda1te  (tilt ta  -td Il0 -reine
Potiettue  =cebRt   rttt      aa      oa    coirt    ftrtad-Aaepenreog-ot  otl adlt pepa1orico a0d il yr-ce edcet
Papaetit Iaur Rot  (prtat -cbu-ouocI   iet  cotnacf aiton tpaP-                    CONSTiiTIO9
laricor foc 195040. 1911-70, acd~~ 197-0f                                            P.e.et..    Coe(c   haoc    ceaîo  -Oetgrcrecure   o
Cradn tci  tar  (pro Iocti       eaal- lieu biccie porth ...tot  cf elO-ynt                        cane tour mg leo  thon nigit poratta  ccc ldot tha...t,                ...crn.M
peeoit   9190, lf977. -d 19801 data,                                                      _t> ac    Ittc_t
Crae l  rr D race ~(t th ..ccec) - Abocal d.thrb  -n th-a.ard  cf aidy..ta                      Rodia oclee  co  th-trad tatpotat(-Abl ty,ot cff ..ian tttdi.
ppltc;19601, 1970. Ild cogo dota.                                                         broadcaR   erScIrIl peîoptiasdcfppaio;tidr o-
trcs InrodaciceMI Ot-hAroarl -ai- cf daagitnroero    ilt bro  ib                              li ictod toonicora la ocuetrIte mnl ytrac   hIno ongierrtI.   ecf  eli.
i-nt     I  n  Ila otadtiet p-rild if etc topro-lto     peenet anapc fito-                        Ilta tu  itoffeot; data fio  rocot  nac  -y cor ibapoai   nt
rafcrycon;_ataly fartcru  acroge ndlcg in 1960, 1970. ted 1980.                                  -t otrciaoiliboIdh.  lfcr..totg.
Pusîly Pletîta                  A O.crtr ...aco  (thi....tde(   A- O o  cadet cf acrrptona      T'aPnae                  ... ttod pplrc)-TVcc  ac  for icdnt.t
of hiith-catc  dtcoaee   aeîo   f coitlf aii Iplootino p-oaco.                                   grn- alo   r   ioadpoool                      cladre  -li  ..ocod TVroits
aI  tcinono    la Ion  og. goot.                                                                -aeieo    dSygnctitrreeP,pr  doficedouaoriadieo
pat>iletico  d-oarn   praaiIip  t  rncne   taaltr.It iecotidtre
POOD AND NsITITIOS                                                                                   ta ir  .dotsy,. if iteppeare  or Inat   a  tita  o.
todt cf totO  Prodartln ro  lotir(96-l a1              -lodet cf pot copitaoneatf               titan  AottAtea              n   et  pet..r-fea   et d         th. oc-et  f
pdatoof ai.   cdcndiio Pfadcdio -necadr  red IlIledIk ten   t                               or   e-Id duiagth ri  coor, ieclediedieg           ref  drion-inct.
cenpittalacrog   prc.-tcr  prIco night; 1901-i5, 1970, ted 1980 dora.                         Total L.ton Farce (thi...anda>  - rcolcIly ahtprce  itrlcdleg
Fe gatr  rpî  cfclnej        roo   freirci>-tuao   froc                                      tnld foan  ad aennpleynd bot etoladic    oeoros  aagte    t
ococfgy  cqdoic   f oct facd naPppitr  aclilb le  aoc  Par c-P,,                                carlgpplt               f aIT   gre..frffic   ccr a   ccrn 
pot day.  heoilbtir capplic    opoe    oentpodcio   iïwccte irea                                co   cuaaio   1960. 1970 Il   98  aa
ttparr, or  ciar nt  ttrt.   e  tapplior tacIad   acirel ferd, tend. Fda-   teoot-  rteito   oonu   rcang   dtera  Ib- fart.
qacort   saed b  (c        p prcte c    o  benne. b dlcitibortae.  Rour-hciatte(ecar       ac  force sefacIa  forry.lci    r
tttte   cet no batî y itAOo  ae-d et phipaic,iaril  -eed  to  cotan    oti                   fli.irg c   ocerg        f tarai tabac force; 1961   970 otd900 deto,
ityp td main   coednrlec                                    Incaacrrtttrrr,ldy erighte, oct     lodcerc  (peroror>  - Loo  fao   eedr    cercio    oource
ccd etc dtortabanioo cf poaaîo   e    laîgt   aco   o   ur   ttd elerrnit ica. aIle  ad g.a . te...otoo t rtl  oofre
-otlaalnr; 196145, 19701 et  1977 dor.                                                       ,190t1. 1970 ed 191  dora.
Pe   aia  crIc  crama (cas  pot day) -Prao_ conr  f pre tapira                                  Ponosatc  80c  (P.rrr          I-ttl  ni,edfai-prlltloo
cotpply of (ccd pot day.  Mot -.pply ci f-d ta defitd 0e ab-r  le-                            crioioy rott  are c...parnd outoal          1.i. ord irco1o  labor tcrtt
6airoreer      ..for eh   -ocrr bo richbt  hy UIDO. pr-odr for osade1                    pacctagef rtroT, aIt te   oorppftc    falar   rpoIn
olo uaIl 61 ba   af Itara  pootnit pot dy,  Ma  70 otanic oclol eed                       1900, f979.n  1990 dat.   birot   atat l.  dactsiPic ren
palan poi. o   ic   10 gtra   abaaId be  na  paoo ."Oi est. otatd-                              rftiaa -rseroaocf thapaont. aod lata tan  rnnad.  A
rdeon Ic -Ithocio noc  cIf 75 grea cf rcte1 pcotoieoe.d 23 gos   f                              ir - rfanaar Ic  noliat   surnt
a  Pa I trota.t . c ln ouo  toc rit  rai,dcrpra..td ba F80 ir rt:  ~iIrd                  MccscOnueo   oIc. - Roua cf Pcp.tlot  atdor 15 ted i  ord tort
OacId Pa  cottey; 1961-65, 1070 te 1 977         - ata                                          faho  ronot  .bloI are
Port rIre, PltOceotptcfe   cta                 a -1  fira_ini  se_.ppla cf tcod de-
cicod ict  eicl  ce   oie    lataas  po t day; 1961-il, 1979 ced 1977 dota.                 INCtOcE DISTRIBUTfIO
1110 (nt  1.41 Dtan  R-t  (ont rithotd>  -  eAa-I Octets 70e thi.asa.d io                       Focttb c   retrsocr ho   te oaa  cd kiod) - Rocricnd by fio.ton
teercp 1    prc,n  cuilOtt  la thisa ooeri         t  foc tac  dOnatige race-                 5 ptos iiteh  70 percent, peaceet 70 oeor  ad p-cec-  40 onthetI
ente. doi.tlOr        osif.  rtios-; 1960, 1970 eod 1980 doo.Ic.ounaie
B0AITH                                                                                          POVEIRTY 10G18T ItOIF
obrrh-tl;  96i,`19700 ad 1;989 daro.                                                            td hcicud la  -Ineprerrd  htt  concideroiecartt
tof-r tfocteiiny Ro. (,or th-co..nd>  - Amati d-ari  a  ici aute ander ... po-r                 Etinted ab-1tiar  Pcencre Ito lct  (1S5Pl pot -coc -t                 - .ala e   tartl
cf ae po thriacad lice blatrie; 1960, 1970 ted 1980 data.                                       Obtacten  poeltty  totonler  la niai th et oae tre1 blob    lilaa4i
Acot toI Sein Rater(cceo   f prlno - total, aIeAn, ad natl1 - Na-                                  cariiueiy   delto diot Plte..e....oin otfodeqirnesla aut
het cf people (total. aria, eed taai lti reucoil  accot  no eafe                                  ftdtt
nalnceoppiy (ioclado  iteatnd  -or oct water  or aetan   bar  Eoereiar                        tieatd Rolutiet Pavrt  tto   lce  (010 cetten pare> -nlburaed ren1 -
Cea  ac  ne titi froc pIlnt   coitt   prco   e  notara>  tulle>  oe                         erol cSalre porr-np intor     itee  la oe-ifc   f accrag  pot capOta
prooee   f tihooeperc   pooelo . laulaonoepoio                                            oeoIllctc  tht  oety   Ulbut le-e  la dOtrid ira, nia trai.
feIeeortodce   can I0cr -tare nt.  00  tertre  iras a hotte top te                             1orthnii ajauttt for hig>nr toa  of tlaieg  ir achat  -t..
causidnred abInte  nîthin  -asalonct cf thor hotte.  1. rotel atet                            tttttd Peptat_ lette  Absaltr  Pt_Iry toto  taco  (rettot  c ob.a
rceteetll   Icaneod iqrly thto  rie hitten lf  or teit  of INc ise.Inod                         atd toa -. Pcos1fpoeeie(acier ccd cae>   t 1                     e")ôl
doarhore to    udaOtpcoioeopeot af th. O.p  le fetetitg tht
facdLyt' cett  tda.
t tat to tett    iocoul (etnaf Pa-alaina  - total, uilna  auntl                   - . 
Outre cfprpe(rtai,l toise, td ratai  aora   y eccrta dlaptao  .
Po,.tretgts e fthintreorc    ooltas    ee    diepouel -a>  1alade
tht  uteta  tedti     .dipt. nth o  ..tat rtont. ofIht-cas                    e
ted              bye-  tr  pttrhoresare  or INe t-  of pinetit p        erd  titi-
M           Ileosia n t Prcefcrte - Fepetorito dliedod ip tiner et pnctiofg phyti-                                                    ttoe.-It ted Setial iteto Dttltio
caaqeeliftt  fre  A tditai.~ era t    aeion..cty bot1.                                                                      Erteceit dA-lpel  ted Poeroeltos
Peecltiosaur oreie  Patte -Popoltit  dieodod t>  ..,rre  o>para                                                                             e.Y 1982
nie Ic  tont  graduete  aoe   aiit               t.potciareor



- 24-                            ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981 (P)             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.    %         1970-75    1975-80    1980    1981 (P)
GNP at Market Prices          1005.6    100.0        O.9 /       3.8-1/    1.81     6.7
Gross Domestic Investment      178.0      17.7        6.6       12.1      -4.2      4.5
Gross National Savings          95.9       9.5
Current Account Balance        -82.1      -8.2
Exports of Goods, NFS           82.2       8.2        3.7       -5.7    -33.5      26.8
Imports of Goods, NFS          206.6      20.5       8.0         5.7    -13.2      16.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value added
US$ Mln.      %
Agriculture                                 492.0        51.1
Industry                                    141.4        14.7
Services                                    247.3        25.7
Other 2/                                     82.2         8.5
TOTAL                   962.9       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                             Central Government -
(BuF Million)    Percent of GDP
1980          1980   1976-78
Current Receipts                           12,715.6          14.3     14.8
Current Expenditure                        10,848.2          12.2     11.2
Current Surplus                             1,867.4           2.1       3.6
Capital Expenditures                        7,736.0           8.7       8.0
External Assistance (net)                   3,695.0           4.6       3.6
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                   1975      1976     1977      1978     1979      1980
(Million BuF outstanding at end period)
Money and Quasi Money                      3544.4   5220.9   8233.2   9411.2   11452.7 10619.7
Bank credit to Public Sector               1271.6   1125.0    270.8   1660.8    4150.4  4177.7
Bank credit to Private Sector               997.0   1532.2   1886.9   4491.3    6220.4  6864.4
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi as % of GDP                  10.8      13.2     16.8      17.0      16.1    13.3
General Price Index (1970=100)              153.1    163.6    174.6    216.4       272.1   310.2
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                          15.8       6.8      6.7      23.9      25.7    14.0
Bank credit to Public Sector                 41.7    -11.5    -75.9    513.3       149.9      0.7
Bank credit to Private Sector               -60.3      53.7     23.1    138.0       38.5    10.4
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered,
1/    Growth rates calculated on the basis of GDP at factor cost.
2/    Net indirect taxes and subsidies.
3/    Consolidated statement of Government finances.
(P)   Preliminary



- 25 -                               ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1979-81)
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
(Millions US Dollars)                             US$ Mln    %
Export of Goods  NFS    96.3    71.4   111.9    78.9    82.2    Coffee                 71.1    89.4
Imports of Goods, NFS   94.7   123.4   192.9   206.6   206.6    Cotton                  1.8      2.3
Resource Gap                                                        Skins               0.7      0.9
(deficit) = -)          1.6   -52.0   -81.0  -127.7  -124.4    Tea                    1.8     2.2
Interest Payments
(net)                  -0.6    -0.9    -1.3    -1.9    -1.6
Workers' Remittances       ..       ..
Other Factor Payments
(net)                 -13.1   -13.6    -8.9    -6.9    -5.2    All other
Net transfers            29.0    32.7    34.3    52.1    49.1         commodities       4.2   _ 5.2
Balance on Current
Account                16.9   -33.8   -56.8   -84.4   -82.1         Total            79.6   100.0
Direct Foreign                                                      EXTERNAL DEBT,
Investment              -       -        -       0.6      0.5        DECEMBER 31, 1981
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements          18.9    20.2    41.7    42.6    25.5                                US$ Mln
Amortization            3.5      2.6     2.7      3.6     3.0    Public Debt, incl.
Subtotal               15.4    17.6    39.0    39.0    22.5         guaranteed              153.6
Capital Grants           13.8    20.9    25.4    35.1    49.1    Non-Guaranteed Private
Other Capital (net)      -0.3   -24.6    -4.3       8.3   -17.0       Debt                       ..
Other items n.e.i.        0.2      3.2    -6.7      8.9   -19.0    Total outstanding and
Increase in                                                           Disbursed
Reserves (-)          -46.1    16.7      3.4    -7.5   -46.0
Gross Reserves                                                      DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981 /3
(end year) 1/          95.9    83.4    98.9   104.6    60.5 /2
Net Reserves (end                                                                                 %
year)                  86.0    69.3    65.9    73,4    27.4    Public Debt incl.
guaranteed                5.6
Non-Guaranteed Private
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Debt
Imports of which:                                                Total outstanding and
Petroleum             5.6     6.7    12.6    25.5    31.7         disbursed
Exports of which:
Petroleum              -       -        -       -        -
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                    IDA LENDING, MARCH 31, 1983
Through Feb. 1973                Since May 3, 1976                                         IBRD  IDA
US$1.00  -  BuF 87.5            US$1.00  -  BuF 90.0                (Amount expressed in US$
BuF 100  -  US$1.14             BuF 100  -  US$1.11                   Million)
Outstanding and
From March 1973 to May 2, 1976                                         Disbursed            -   71.6
US$1.00  - BuF 78.75                                                Undisbursed             -   84.6
BuF 100  - US$ 1.27                                                 Outstanding including
Undisbursed            - 156.2
1/ Central Bank
2/ November 30, 1981
3/ Ratio of Debt Service to Export of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available -   . non applicable



- 26 -                         ANNEX II
-26-                     P~~~~~~~a-g-elof 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
EXPRESSED IN US DOLLARS
(As of .March 31, 1983)
Amount
US$ million
Loan or                                                        (less cancellations)
Credit Number    Year    Borrower    Purpose             Bank    IDA 2/       Undisbursed
One loan 1/ and seven credits fully disbursed             4.8      25.07
626 BU            1976    Burundi       Fisheries
Development       -        6.00         2.10
731 BU            1978    Burundi       Development
Bank              -        3.40         0.32
773 BU            1978    Burundi       Second Highway
Project           -       14.00         0.04
917 BU            1979    Burundi       Second Technical
Assistance        -        2.50         0.20
918 BU            1979    Burundi       Forestry            -       4.30         1.90
976 BU            1980    Burundi       Second Education  -        15.00         6.12
1049 BU           1980    Burundi       Urban
Development       -       15.00        10.76
1058 BU           1980    Burundi       Telecommunica-
tions             -        7.70        6.40
1132 BU           1981    Burundi       Third Highway      -       22.11 /4    17.225/
1154 BU           1981    Burundi       Nickel
Exploration       -        3.56 /4      2.86-
1165 BU           1981    Burundi       Kirimiro Rural
Development       -       17.47 /4    16.71-
1192 BU 3/        1981    Burundi       Integrated Rural
Dev. Ngozi III   -         2.86 /4    15.32-v
1230 BU           1982    Burundi       Local Construc-
tion Industry    -        4.96 /4    4.63-/
Total             4.8    156.39        84.58
Of which has
been paid        4.8        .43
Total now held   0.0    156.14
Total undis-
bursed           0.0     84.58
1/ Extended in 1957 to the Belgian Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi for the
improvement of the Bujumbura-Muramvya road and the expansion of the Lake port
of Bujumbura. The loan shich was guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium has
been fully repaid.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/ Not yet effective.
4| Computed at March 31, 1983 rate of 1.07367
5/ Computed at market rate on dates of disbursement.



- 27 -                           ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(as of March 31, 1983)
Type of                  Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor             Business                Loan    Equity    Total
1981     Verreries du       Glass container
Burundi                                     4.8      0.8        5.6
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                          4.8       0.8        5.6
Total commitments now held by IFC                    4.8       0.8        5.6
Total undisbursed                                    2.5       0.1        2.6
C. Projects in Execution 1/
(as of March 31, 1983)
Credit No. 626-BU      Fisheries Development Project:  US$6.0 million of
June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: February 22,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This project is designed to increase the production
of fish through the provision of training, equipment and materials to
fishermen and to improve the distribution of fish throughout Burundi. The
project also includes financing for the preparation of rural development
plans for the coastal region along Lake Tanganyika and the implementation
of pilot development activities. The project is cofinanced by a US$1.2
million loan from the Abu-Dhabi Fund. Project implementation was initially
very slow because of problems encountered in the recruitment of both
expatriate technical assistants and their national counterparts and in the
procurement of goods, and subsequently in project management. About 200
metallic and wooden boats have been made available to fishermen, and an
experiment to use low quality local wood to produce longer lasting and
cheaper laminated wood boats met with some success.  Project management
remained however seriously deficient through Project implementation and
SUPOBU's activities related to commercialization and marketing of fish have
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular
to report any problems which are being encountered, and the action
being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and
with the understanding they do not purport to present a balance
evaluation of strenghs and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
been unsuccessful, causing severe financial strains on the Company and on
the Government budget. It was therefore decided not to extend the Closing
Date. The Credit accounts will be closed when the last authorized
disbursements have been made.
Credit No. 731-BU      Development Bank Project:  US$3.4 million
September 30, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 27,
1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
The project aims at providing funds for investment in
medium size productive entreprises and technical assistance to the National
Economic Development Bank (BNDE). Implementation of the Project started
slowly. Following, however, an amendment of the Credit Agreement of June
1980, which allows the use of up to US$1 million for financing loans to
small-scale enterprises, project execution has accelerated and the Credit
is almost totally committed. The recent creation of a second development
financing institution, the Société Burundaise de Financement (SBF), raises
serious concerns regarding BNDE's future operations as investment
opportunities do not justify two major term lending institutions in the
country.
Credit No. 773-BU      Second Highway Project:  US$14.0 million of
March 29, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 27, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project finances the paving of a major nation
road, Bujumbura-Rugombo (65 km), the start-up phase of an improvement
program for selected secondary and tertiary roads and bridges, the
construction of a new central laboratory, the strengthening of the
mechanized maintenance brigade and the provision of technical assistance
and equipment for the ongoing maintenance program. Project implementation,
in particular major road construction, was delayed by the lack of cement
and fuel supplies due to disruption in international transport through
neighbouring countries during the first half of 1979. Since then, works
have resumed satisfactorily. Because of these interruptions, and of higher
than expected price increases, the project is encountering high cost
overruns.  The improvement program for selected secondary roads is
completed. The construction of a new central laboratory is nearly
completed. The mechanized maintenance brigate is fully operational and has
received all the equipment financed under the project. The technical
assistance component is, in general, meeting its objectives; however,
difficulties in recruiting local counterparts and in retaining them in
service once trained have not made possible the reduction of expatriate
technical assistance as planned. Construction works are nearly completed,
and funds are almost totally disbursed. Therefore the Closing Date was not
extended and the Credit accounts will be closed when the last disbursements
have been made.



- 29 -                            ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Credit No. 917-BU      Second Technical Assistance Project; US$2.5 million
of June 1, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 27,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This project provides for the further strengthening
of the Government's planning mechanism and its project preparation and
implementation capacity. It includes continuation of the technical
assistance to macroeconomic planning at the Ministry of Planning, provision
of experts to the planning divisions of the Ministries of Agriculture and
Industry and financing of feasibility studies. The credit is also
financing consultant services to support the Government's effort in
restructuring public enterprises.  Project implementation is satisfactory.
Credit No. 918-BU      Forestry Project:  US$4.3 million and US$1.2 million
EEC Special Action Credit of june 1, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: October 22, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project assists the Government in initiating the
first stage for a long-term program to develop basic forestry services and
plantations to supply fuel wood, building poles and timber and to establish
long-term wood production and marketing policies. The project includes the
establishment of rural nurseries in 30 communes, a 2,000 ha eucalyptus
plantation and a 5,000 ha pine plantation, technical assistance (provided
by France) and financing of energy studies. The project is progressing
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 976-BU      Second Education Project:  US$15.0 million of
April 23, 1980; Effectiveness Date: July 21, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project assists the Government in training middle
level technicians and skilled workers in industrial trades and
secretarial-administrative skills.  It includes the construction,
furnishing and equipping of two new boarding technical schools, a Mechanics
Department and a Typist and Bookkeeper Training Department in two existing
schools and staff housing. Implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
The construction of the two new shool departments has been completed ahead
of schedule, and the other two major schools will be completed on
schedule. The Project Unit is now making a survey of secondary school
maintenance and equipment needs. The Planning Unit and the Technical
Education Bureau have been strengthened. The Planning Unit is preparing a
school map and the Technical Education Bureau is redesigning the curriculum
of technical schools in cooperation with employers to make training more
practical. As the cost of the project is expected to to be lower than
estimated, in part because of early completion of works, the Development
Credit Agreement was amended to finance the construction and equipment of
twenty five of the fifty MLCs which could not be financed under the First
Project because of cost overruns and the maintenance and improvement of
five secondary schools.



- 30 -                          ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Credit No. 1049-BU    Urban Development Project:  US$15.0 million of
June 24, 1980; Effectiveness Date: October 31, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This project seeks to redress the most urgent
infrastructure deficiencies in Bujumbura neighborhoods while laying the
foundation on for more efficient future growth. Essential improvements to
street, drainage, water and public lighting networks will improve living
conditions for 118,000 persons in Bujumbura, or 85% of the population.
Serviced plots and loans for house construction will be made available to
families between the 20th and 65th income percentiles. An artisan
promotion component is providing technical and financial assistance to
carpenters and metalworkers, the latter in conjunction with an energy
assistance program designed to improve the efficiency of charcoal-burning
metal stoves. The capacity of the Bujumbura municipality to collect
garbage and maintain streets, drains, and public buildings is being
strengthened. The pace of execution slowed in early 1982, but is now
picking up following agreements reached with new project management on
house construction at Kwijabe and solid waste collection. Street and
drainage improvements have been completed in the first neighborhood and at
the Kwijabe serviced site. Primary school construction and renovation and
the operation of municipal building and street maintenance units are
scheduled to start shortly. An urban tax designed to recover the cost of
operating, maintaining and replacing municipal services networks was
rejected by the National Assembly last Fall. The Bank has agreed to extend
the reimbursement of certain operating expenditures, originally provided
until December 31, 1983, to allow the Government additional time to set up
cost recovery mechanisms.
Credit No. 1058-BU    Telecommunications Project:  US$7.7 million of
August 7, 1980; Effectiveness Date: January 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 10, 1985
The project is a major component of the country's
1980-84 investment program for telecommunications. It aims at improving
the quality of existing services while extending the coverage to rural
areas and segments of the population presently unserved. It would also
strengthen the management of telecommunications parastatal company (ONATEL)
in order to establish the company as a financially autonomous entity, and
provide assistance for staff training. ONATEL started functioning in
January 1980 and is developing satisfactorily. The project became
effective on January 7, 1981 and is progressing satisfactorily. The
estimated project cost has increased by about 38% over appraisal estimates
(December 1979) due to higher bid unit prices and to the need to increase
the quantity of some project items as demand for services has increased
beyond expectations. The Government is seeking external financing to meet
this cost overrun.



- 31 -                        ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Credit No. 1132-BU    Third Highway Project:  US$25.0 million of
December 17, 1981. Effectiveness Date:
March 17, 1982. Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The main objectives of the Third Highway Project are:
(i) to contribute to reduce the country external transport constraints by
assisting the Ministry of Transport in establishing a planning capacity and
by financing the construction of a paved road section which would be part
of a variant "southern route" linking the capital of Bujumbura to the
Dar-es-Salaam railway at Isaka in Tanzania; and (ii) to improve the
national road network through construction of the same paved road section,
improvement of earth roads, and strengthening of maintenance activities.
Improvement works are progressing satisfactorily, and the contractor has
been selected for construction works which are scheduled to start in
February 1983. Construction works will cost about 24% more than estimated
at appraisal. As additional funds are expected to be provided for
equipment from the United Nations Capital Development Fund it is envisaged
to finance the increase in construction costs from funds no longer needed
for equipment under the IDA Credit.
Credit No. 1154-BU    Nickel Exploration Engineering Project:
US$4.0 million of July 15, 1981. Effectiveness Date:
August 31, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The objective of the proposed project is to develop
and analyze the basic data needed to reformulate the large scale Musongati
Nickel Development Project. The Credit for this project is considered as
the minimum investment required to bring the Musongati Project to a point
where both the Government and potential investors can make informed
decisions regarding the Project's viability, including whether or not to
proceed with a full feasibility study. The project includes the following
components: (i) nickel exploration; (ii) trial peat production; (iii)
engineering studies (high grade mineability, hydro-electric site, sulfur
sources, and process selection); (iv) overall review of the Musongati
Project viability and (v) management assistance. The project is cofinanced
by the Republic of Finland and UNDP. Project start-up was delayed because
of problems encountered in the selection of the management firm, and the
finalization of cofinancing arrangements.  Implementation is now
progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1165-BU    Kirimiro Rural Development Project:  US$19.3 million
of December 17, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
June 2, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The objectives of the project, which is implemented
by the Regional Development Company of Kirimiro, are to assist smallholders
in the Kirimiro area to improve the productivity of coffee and fooderop
cultivation; improve the quality of exported coffee and improve the rural



- 32--                       ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
living conditions. To reach these objectives, the project includes the
following components: strengthening of extension services, afforestation
and erosion control measures, construction and equipping of twelve
handpulping centers and six coffee washing stations, improvement of the
road and water supply network, pilot activities and studies. The start-up
of the project was delayed by the dismissal by the Government of the
technical assistance team and of the Project Director. A new Project
Director has been appointed and a new technical assistance team has been
recruited.
Credit No. 1192-BU    Integrated Rural Development Ngozi III:  US$16.0
million of March 29, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (not
yet effective); Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The objective of the project, which is implemented by
the Regional Development Company of Buyenzi, is to improve the standard of
living and productivity of approximately 150 000 farmers in the Ngozi
area. Specifically, the project would include: erosion control and
reafforestation; cash crop improvement (coffee); construction of coffee
washing stations; food crop development (crop and seed protection);
livestock development; agricultural credit; marketing; provision of health
facilities; studies. The Project is cofinanced by the International Fund
for Agricultural Development and by the Kuwait Fund. The Credit is not yet
effective but start-up activities are financed from an advance under the
project preparation facility, and from revenues from coffee washing
operations.
Credit No. 1230-BU    Pilot project to assist the local construction
industry: US$5.2 million of June 1, 1982;
Effectivenesss Date: November 12, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
This pilot project aims at removing some of the
obstacles (obsolete construction standards, heavy dependence on imported
materials, lack of financial and technical support) to the development of
the local construction industry. The project includes the following
components:  (a) at the sector level:  (i) development of the lime and
brick production and assessment of the viability of developing other local
construction materials to reduce the country's high dependence on imports;
and (ii) assistance to the Ministry of Public Works Energy and MInes to
improve its capacity to supervise and administer government-financed
construction projects, and to update and improve the construction code, (b)
at the enterprise level: financial assistance to producers of local
construction materials and contractors through a line of credit made
available to the National Development Bank (BNDE), and technical assistance
provided by the Project Unit in coordination with BNDE. Implementation is
progressing satisfactorily.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BURUNDI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetables of Key Events
Identification:                       1982
Preparation:                          Ministry of National Education
with UNESCO's assistance
Appraisal Mission:                    June 1982
Negotiations:                         March 1983
Planned Date of Effectiveness:        July 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) Multipurpose learning centers would be located in areas where they are
requested by local communities; their functions would not overlap with
existing schools; a sufficient number of entrants would live within
walking distance, and there would be a source of water in the vicinity
(para. 43).
(ii)  Proposals for an upgrading program for teacher trainers would be
submitted to the Association by June 30, 1984 and the training program
introduced by September 30, 1984 (para. 44).
(iii) TTIs to be constructed under the project would be staffed by September
1, 1985 with experienced teacher trainers who have completed the
upgrading program (para. 44).
(iv) Four national technicians would be appointed to the printshop by
September 30, 1983 (para. 47).
(v) Teaching aid production plan would be established annually by MNE and
submitted to the Association by July 1 commencing July 1, 1983 (para.
48).
(vi) Completion of a countrywide school mapping exercise by June 30, 1985
(para. 49).



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(vii) Expenditures on civil works, construction materials and
equipment, and technical assistance up to a total of US$1.0
million equivalent would be financed retroactively (para. 56).
(viii) Special conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a) The establishment of the teaching aid unit as a
separate unit (para. 48).
(b)  Opening of a Special Account on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association (para.54).
(c) Opening of a separate Project Advance Account with an
initial deposit of FBU 31.5 million (para. 54).



BU RUN DI
Firot duontns Proeot OhnelsTHIRD  EDUCATION  PROJECT
*  M.ftrpspooe[cors~o Cnter  40P-PrposeZ Edusotior Zone (5)                                                                                                                   0-
@ë  Protîcol Oso ~c                                   Mol or Ronds, Pos--roC.90222                                                                               9        C       5
Pencher rroînîng Ceroor         -   ~Mn1or Rood3, Unpeosos                                                                    '0       2I4C
SeodEooisPrejeo So~heel                                                                                                                                   2 eodr   od,  soe  1S9  0  :I9
ÀSohon F,fo Pool,0 Workr ord                          îcRs
Gis  Pogîseorîog           ))BW»~~NT  t0,o-.o Copîtol
*Meohonios Dnportnet                          ©     ArdisenDsritCotosR                                                          W       A       N       D      A 
W ere kîn ,els, nnd                           C.0000Sooro
os   oirSecoedory Sohools (2)                                                      I          >-        J         -
AJorse Se...ndnr  Slsol (4)                                                                         IDcc   o
O  Sone-l Gcrers, (2)9                                                                                              Rnrnf                                                                 j
2'l'20 0'
Kirondo                  OOcRN0
vl-~~~~~~~~ 
~~et0   ',  O          oho      Muyn    g
bitokee                                                                     e/O--.r9,.0,00Brrd
~~~~0gsncs ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     aynpD-,1-1I 
1       9           Oni       * 0F                                        9O55sr,ufg
4 Bubanzo                         9559
<c   §0  90000 ~~~~~9crgc                                                '~~~~o   Conkuzo
teO arntRVy      Miro,                                Olo-...o
-LE~                ®
mWIS0.019                     '0tc.eco  
>0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~          I
r  ~~'?V~   ~      S               dcinores                                                              Y
Y30,t                        ~~           wse8                  0~
m                                                                                     -J  ~ Qîen  iO
0L0  aN59<%teg     
Z  A    1  R   E  ;   ,        ,  .b   ~      ~     ~     ~     )           o                          uytt          ~         0or
i  t5c  .9  ~   409    00,09   'jr..  'O                                           190
2090~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    -
ocos  A t   ~ ~ ~ ~~~ A.choAesi 
s                           O      Urr            -b  i   0(                   ORer.
4,CD,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~uo                                     noro                      yRotj  0r
r          BoA
-       AN    A-           BA         eD  
A  c                                                                                         A~~oMcocs      009 N   t     
Z A 1 R E69
M  TkAm    N   Z         , A..NopoooA
000 ro,oororooor,           OnIf, O
DID                                                                                                                                                     MOZAMB~~~~~C~~'
j                toeoeoscn                                          ',.,o0,. eo,o-0 0' Or          on e~Do



