R  Cu¶A.TI I   COPY                                        RE'S
B@ ro ARCIYE DIVISION        CIRCULATING COPY           Report No. TO-583'
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
I1N CENTRAL FLLESS
This report was preoared for use within the Bank and its affiliated orgarizations.
TFey do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
rerbbii~Inifheri nor mav it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRIU;CTION AND DEVELOPMEN1
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BRAZIL
August 30, 1967
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                    New Cruzeiro (Ncr) $2. 70
Old Cruzeiro (Cr) $2, 700
New Cruzeiro $1         US$0. 3704
New Cruzeiro $1, 000, 000 US$370, 370
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha)          2.47 acres
1 Kilogram (kg)         2. 20 pounds
1 Metric Ton (m ton)    2, 204. 6 pounds
N. B. Throughout the Report, costs and benefits
for the Project have been calculated and expressed
in US dollars. Local unit costs and prices were
estimated in Brazilian cruzeiros and translated into
US dollars at the rate of Old Cr$2, 200 to the dollar -
the rate obtaining in mid- 1966 when the field appraisal
was conducted. The recent devaluation of the cruzeiro
fully compensates for cost and price increases since
the appraisal was made. Considering that a significant
proportion of Project output is likely to be exported,
and given the assumption of free prices for livestock
products, the economic and financial calculations
included in the Report remain valid.



BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMA.RY       --------------                             ----     - 
I.     INTRODUCTION         ----------                                          1
II. THE LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY ------------                        -                1
Background             --- -…--- ---                                1
Production - -------------------                                     2
Consumption ---       ---    -  3--------------        -
Marketing    -------------------------------------                   3
Taxation -----------------------------------------                  4
Price Policy -------------------                                    4
Nature and Supply of Credit -------------                            5
III.   THE PROJECT ---------------------- --- -------- -- --      -      -      6
Project Areas         --     -----------                            6
Main Features -         -       -------------- -                     7
Organization and Management ----             …      …-               9
Cost Estimates ----------------------------- - --- --              11
Financing ---       --------------------------                     12
Relending Terms                     -       ----                   13
Disbursements -------------------------- -----------               1
Operating Results ----------------------------------               15
Procurement   -----------------------------------------            15
IV.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ----------------------              -         16
V.    CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS --------------------------               18
This appraisal report is based on the findings of two Bank missions which
visited Brazil in August/September and October/November 1966. The first
mission was composed of Messrs. C.P. McMeekan, C.E. Eugenio, R. Picciotto,
J. Gerring, A. Davar (Bank), and P. Bono (FAO). The second mission was
composed of Messrs. C.E. Eugenio, R. Picciotto, J. Gerring (Bank), and
F. Milam (Consultant).



-2-
ANNEXS AND APPENDICES
ANNEX 1    -    Foot-and-Mouth Disease
ANNEX 2    -    Marketing of Cattle and Beef
ANNEX 3    -    Institutional Framework for Credit
APPENDIX 3-1 - Chart of Organization of the Central Bank of Brazil
APPENDIX 3-2 - Financial Position and Results of Operation of
-.          Participating Banks other than Banco do Brasil
ANNEX 4    -    Project Organization
ANNEX 5    -    Summary of Estimates of On-Farm Development Costs
ANNEX 6    -    Total Estimated Cost of Techniml Services
ANNEX 7    -    Research Requirements
ANNEX 8    -    Proposed Relending Terms
APPENDIX 8-1 - Debt Service of Typical Loan
ANNEX 9    -    Projected Statement of Receipts and Disbursements
ANNEX 10   -    Herd Development and Return Calculations
ANNEX 11   -    On-Farm Investments and Operating Costs
ANNEX 12   -    Economic and Financial Return Calculations
ANNEX 13   -    Production from Project Farms
MAPS
Map I   -   Regional Project I, Rio Grande do Sul
Map II -    Regional Projects II and III, Central Brazil



BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMNT PROJECT
SUIYI4R
Mi)       The Government of Brazil has requested a Bank loan equivalent
to US$ 40 million to finance a Livestock Development Project for increasing
beef, mutton, and wool production in selected areas of Brazil. The loan
would be used for making medium- and long-term loans to commercial farmers
and for related technical services.
(ii)      Brazil is one of the countries in the world with extensive
grazing areas, large stocks of cattle and sheep and considerable potential
for increased livestock productivity. There is a great need to diversify
agricultural production and exports. In contrast to the uncertain market
prospects for the traditional products of Brazilian agriculture, demand
for beef is strong, both in the domestic and the world market.
(iii)     The Project would be confined to specific areas of Rio Grande do
Sul and Central Brazil chosen for their high potential productivity,
proximity to markets, and high livestock population density. In order to
ensure adequate technical supervision, three separate Regional Projects
would be set up, one for Rio Grande do Sul and two for Central .Brazil.
(iv)      The Project would involve on-farm investments of about US$ 74.7
million and about US$ 5.4 million for technical services.  The proposed
Bank loan would cover half of the estimated total cost and the balance
would be contributed by the Government (31%) and participating farmers
(about 19%).
(v)       The Project would concentrate on productive on-farm investments
including land clearance, pasture improvement, fencing, wJatering and
handling facilities, farm buildings, farm machinery, and purchase of
breeding cattle. These investments together with improved livestock
husbandry-practices would result in increased herd productivity and stock
expansion on Project farms. It is expected that about 1,800 commercial
farmers would participate in the Project. Their loans would be repayable
in about 12 years including a 4-year grace period. Taking account
of Brazils inflationary climate, terms of lending to farmers would include
monetary correction on principal and interest.
(vi)      The Government of Brazil would be the Borrower. The Bank loan
would be channelled tihrough the Central Bank, which would be prepared to
rediscount 100% of any loan made to farmers uider the Project by Banco do
Brasil and other authorized participating banks. Participating banks,
both public and private, would be selected by the Central Bank under
criteria formulated in agreement with the Bank.
I,. c
I~. . ./



(vii)     In each of the three Project Regions technical advice to Project
farmers would be provided by qualified Brazilian livestock technicians
under the direct supervision of a qualified Regional Project Mirector. The
technicians would be responsible for assisting farmers to prepare farm
development plans, for recommending these to participating banks, and for
supervising the implementation of farm plans for which loans are made.
The Project Directors would be responsible to a National Honorary Commission
-composed of Federal government officials, bankers, and producers. Regional
Commissions including State government officials, bankers, and producers,
would operate in each of the three Project Regions in an advisory capacity.
(viii)    The Project is technically sound and economically justified.
The administration arrangements for Project execution are satisfactory.
Credit would be extended to commercial farms in areas of high livestock
potential, for investments having a great impact on livestock productive
and reproductive efficiency. Net income after taxes of the average
participating farmer is expected to increase by 150 per cent in 15 years.
The economic return on the investment expected from the Project would be
about 18 per cent. The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 40
million for 20 years, including 6½ years grace, subject to assurances set
out in the Conclusions and Recommendations.



BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Brazil has requested a Bank loan of Us$ 40
million to assist in the financing of a Livestock Development Project.
The Project seeks to increase beef production in Central Brazil and beef-
mutton-wool production in RIo Grande do Sul. It was prepared during
-1965-66 by a Brazilian Commission, comprising officials from the Ministries
of Agriculture and Planning and representatives from the banking community
and the livestock industry. Guidance in project preparation was provided
by the Bank and FAO.
2.        This appraisal report is based on the findings of two Bank
missions which visited Brazil in August/September and October/November 1966.
The first mission was composed of Messrs. C.P. McMeekan, C.E. Eugenio,
R. Picciotto, J. Gerring, A. Davar (Bank), and P. Bono (FAO). The second
mission was composed of Messrs. C.E. Eugenio, R. Picciotto, J. Gerring (Bank),
and F. Milam (Consultant).
II. THE LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY
Background
3.        With 850 million ha, Brazil is the largest country in Latin
America and the fifth largest in the world. Some 260 million ha, or 30
per cent of Brazilts area, are in farms. However, about 80 million ha
of the farms are forest, brush, and idle or unproductive land. Pastures
cover an estimated 120 million ha. Forty million people, about half of
the total population, are rural. Yet agriculture produces only about one
quarter of the national income. The present Government recognizes the
priority of agriculture for development of the economy.
4.        Livestock accounts for 8-10 per cent of the gross national product.
This is about one third of the value of agricultural production. In
physical terms, livestock production has risen roughly at the rate of other
sectors of agriculture during the past two decades. This has been barely
sufficient to keep pace with the rising population. Increasing per capita
incomes have meant a consistently high pressure on available supplies with
livestock prices rising faster than other agricultural prices.
5.        Despite considerable natural advantage for cattle farming, the
contribution of the beef cattle sector to Brazilian exports has been
small. During 1961-65, annual beef exports averaged 30,000 m ton, about
two per cent of the national beef production. The value of all livestock
products exported, including wool, hides, and skins, accounted for less
than four per cent of total export receipts.  In the 'ace of uncertain



-2-
prospects for coffee and sugar, the traditional products of Brazilian
agriculture, diversification of farm production and exports through expansion
of the livestock industry is most important.
Production
6.        Although a small number of commercial farmers has developed
efficient stock and pasture management techniques, the average efficiency
-of Brazilian livestock farming is low. A major limiting factor to increased
animal production is the lack of suitable feed during winter (June to
September). This feed deficiency coincides with the main calving season,
causing high calf mortality and a loss in weight in other stock. Many of
the breeding cows calve every second year rat er than each 12 to 15 months.
As a result, the average weaning percentagel! is only 45 to 55 per cent.
Take-off rate2  is around 10 to 12 per cent. The carrying capacity of
pasture is 0.3 to 0.8 animals per ha. It generally takes four to five
years for a steer to reach 200 to 220 kg carcass weight. Average wool
yield per head of sheep is only 2.5 kg.
7.        Animal production has also been adversely affected by a number
of disease problems (Annex 1), including foot-and-mouth disease, brucellosis,
anthrax, blackleg, and paralytic rabies which are either endemic or occur
sporadically in many areas of Brazil. In Rio Grande do Sul, a compulsory
vaccination program to control foot-and-mouth disease was launched in
December 1965, and is expected to cover the Project area in this State by
the end of 1967. In Central Brazil, vaccination against this disease is
carried out on a voluntary basis. Assurance was obtained during negotiations
that an expanded program of compulsory vaccination against foot-and-mouth
disease would be undertaken in the Project area.
8.        Brazil has enough animals3/, good land, and entrepreneurial talent
to permit substantial progress in the development of its livestock industry.
This is possible through better-management of the feed supply throughout
the year, use of mineral supplements, pasture improvement and fertilization,
fencing, and adequate supply of sanitary water. In many areas, weaning
rates have been raised, weight loss during winter reduced, and the breeding
herd increased by such measures. These improved practices would be
adopted by an increasing number of farmers if credit on adequate terms
and technical services were made available.
1/ Weaning percentage is the number of calves alive at weaning
expressed as an annual percentage of the female breeding herd.
i/ Take-off rate is the percentage of the herd or flock
slaughtered annually.
y/ Official statistics put the cattle herd at about 85 million
head and the sheep flock at 22 million head.



-3-
Consumption
9.        Available statistics indicate that the annual meat consumption
per capita is at least 25 kg. 'While consumption in the United States,
Argentina, and Uruguay is much greater (around 70-80 kg), Brazilian meat
consumption is on the high side when compared to Greece, Portugal, Turkey,
Kenya, or Peru (13-23 kg) wihich have similar per capita incomes. An
established tradition of beef production and consumption, rapid urbanization,
and the Governmentts long-standing policy of favoring urban consumers have
contributed to Brazil's strong domestic meat demand.
10.       Beef makes up 70 per cent of the meat diet.  Consumer preference
is for fresh beef, boned and clean of excess fat, except in rural areas
where it is sold bone-in. Consumer resistance to frozen beef is strong.
Lamb and mutton consumption is concentrated in the temperate South. Sub-
stitution of pork, chicken, and fish for beef has long been hindered by
Brazil's artificially low beef prices.  However, the price differential
between beef and other meats narrowed when retail prices for choice beef
cuts were freed. With substantial upward adjustments in beef prices during
1966, domestic beef consumption fell into line with domestic production
and prospects for gradual increases in beef supplies and exports appear
good.
Marketing (Annex 2)
11.       The dominant characteristic of beef marketing is the highly
seasonal pattern of fat cattle supply. Slaughter is high in autumn and
declines sharply during winter and spring. As a result, marketing facilities
are underutilized for many months of the year and cattle prices fluctuate
widely according to the season. Brazil has no auction markets for fat or
store cattle. Animals are sold directly to fatteners or slaughter-house
agents.  In Rio Grande do Sul, where the stock farmer is breeder, raiser,
and fattener, all in one, there are few middlemen and fat steers are
often sold throagh marketing cooperatives. In Central Brazil, where
distances between production and consumption centers are great, cattle
marketing usually involves several transactions and cattle brokers are
active. There is no cattle grading system in either area and dissemination
of market information is poor. Conditions for cattle transport are slowly
improving.  However, much cattle is still moved on-the-hoof for long
journeys, involving considerable weight losses. Nearly half -of the cattle
are slaughtered in small municipal establishments under poor sanitary
conditions, with wasteful use of by-products. The numerous deficiencies
of the marketing structure are not serious problems for the short run.
However, a study which would help set forth a program to bring the industry
up to modern standards of efficiency and sanitation would be useful for
the long-term development of the livestock sector. During negotiations,
assurance was obtained that such a study would be undertaken under terms
of reference agreed with the Bank.



Taxation
12.       Every sale of cattle, meat, and wool in Brazil involves payment
of a sales tax, levied by each State, representing 6.5 - 8.5 per cent of
the value of each transaction. This taxation system has had a considerable
influence on marketing. In Rio Grande do Sul, it has encouraged the
development of cooperatives, handling meat and wool processing and sale in
the name of their members. In Central Brazil, it has encouraged some
vertical integration of private livestock activity.  In both areas, tax
enforcement has been less effective with small-scale operators than with
large-scale, generally more efficient, units. Brazilt-s new tax codes to
be gradually implemented during 1967-69, provides for sales taxation at
all stages of marketing, based on value added. This would mean a lighter
tax burden on livestock production and trade, particularly in Central Brazil
where the number of transactions is high.
Price Policy
13.       Wool production is in excess of domestic requirements: out of an
annual production of about 30,000 tons during 1964-66, Brazil has been
able to export some 16,000 tons annually. Government regulation. of wool
marketing has been limited to approval of export applications. While
there have been occasional delays in approvals (particularly in 1964-65
where timely supply of domestic textile firms appeared endangered), wool
marketing has, by and large, remained free, and wool prices have tended
to reflect international market conditions.
14.       By contrast, Government policy with respect to beef, which is
in short supply, has often aimed at favoring the urban consumer at the
expense of producers and exporters. Price controls at the retail and
producer levels, export prohibition, and export quotas have intermittently
been imposed to ensure abundant beef supplies and low prices in the
domestic market. In 1965, frozen beef exports were subject to export
taxes: 30 per cent from Central Brazil; 20 per cent from Rio Grande do Sul.
Frozen beef exports from Central Brazil are now prohibited and the Govern-
ment still sets up guidelines at all levels of cattle and meat marketing,
with the exception of retail prices for choice beef cuts, left free
to fluctuate in accordance with supply and demand. Until mid-1966, these
guidelines were set unrealistically low and failed to take account of
seasonal price variations. However, the price situation has recently
improved. In November 1966, during the seasonal scarcity of beef, the
producer price for a fat steer reached Cr$ 1,400 per kg carcass weight
(US$ 0.29 per pound). This was slightly above quoted export prices, F.O.B.,
Porto Alegre. During negotiations, the Government assured that it would
remove all remaining price and foreign trade controls on livestock products
before the Bank loan is signed. In addition, assurance was obtained that
the Bank, at its option, may suspend the re-lending to farmers of the
proceeds of the Bank loan if the Government or any of its political
subdivisions or agencies or any agency of any political subdivision of
Brazil shall have adopted measures which would adversely and materially
affect the economic benefits expected to result from the Project.



-5-
Nature and Supply of Credit
15.       Loans to the livestock industry have been a small percentage
(about 5%) of total lending by the banking system. Although during recent
years Brazilian authorities have recognized the need for increased credit
assistance to agriculture, financing of the livestock industry has remained
almost at the same percentage level in relation to the total loans of the
banking system. The increase in loans for livestock as of the end of 1965
as compared with 1960 (Cr$ 198 billion in 1965 vs. Cr$ 25 billion in 1960)
is illusory. Considering that the agricultural price index in 1965 was
ten times that of 1960, loans to livestock, in real terms, actually decreased.
16.       Banco do Brasil, a semi-Government institution, has always been
an instrument of national policy and, accordingly, has supplied the major
amounts of funds to agriculture and livestock. However, the Government
which took office in April 1964 gave high priority to agricultural develop-
ment. Special agricultural funds were established in the Central Bank
(these special agricultural funds together with other funds for priority
investments in industry were collectively called "Fundo Geral para a
Agricultura e Industria" or FUNAGRI), which were channelled not only
through the Banco do Brasil, but also through State and private banks.
Since 1964l, therefore, banks, other than the Banco do Brasil, have assumed
a more substantial role in agricultural lending.
17.       Because of inflation and Government control of interest rates,
almost all loans granted are short-term. In Brazil, as in all countries
suffering from actute inflation, funds available for long-term use are
scarce. Furthermore, the low level of interest imposed across-the-board
has prevented differentiation of interest charges according to loan
maturity. These factors have forced bankers into the "safer" short-term
loans. Banco do Brasil has granted some medium-term loans to farmers
on concessionary terms but the amount actually lent for terms above 2-3
years has been small. It is interesting to note also that recent FUNAGRI
-activity in the field of agricultural lending has focussed on the short-
term financing needs of farmers (seeds, fertilizers, etc.). Interest rates
on official agricultural lending have long been around 12 per cent. However,
the National Monetary Council has recently passed a regulation to the
effect that agricultural loans of no more than 50 times the highest
minimum wage prevailing in the country must be charged interest of no more
than 14 per cent per annum; loans over the aforesaid amount must bear
interest at no more than 18 per cent per annum_/. Central Bank officials
have indicated that they would review regulations on medium- and long-term
agricultural lending so that these regulations would dovetail with the
lending terms provided in the Project. A description of the institutional
framework for credit is given in Annex 3.
1/ For agricultural loans currently financed by the Central Bank,
the 18 per cent lending rate is made up of:
7 per cent rediscount rate, 4 per cent interest surcharge for
monetary correctionand 7 per cent margin to participating
commercial banks.



III. THE PROJECT
18.       The Project, which would be in Rio Grande do Sul and selected
areas of Central Brazil, is a livestock credit operation through the Banco
do Brasil and other authorized commercial banks under a rediscounting
arrangement with the Central Bank. Its objective is to increase production
'of beef, mutton, and wool.  The total cost of the Project, including
technical services, is estimated at about US$ 80 million. Financing of
50% of this cost would be provided by a Bank loan of US$ 40 million and
the rest would be provided by the Brazilian Government (about 31%) and
Brazilian farmers (about 19%).
Project Areas
19.       The Project areas embrace stock farming regions which differ
markedly in climate and production characteristics. These regions were
selected for their high prodactivity potential, adequate infrastructure,
easy access to markets, and their relatively high livestock population
density. 'More than 70 per cent of the cattle and 60 per cent of the
sheep in Brazil are found in the six States in which the Project would be
located.
20.       The Project would be divided into Regional Projects for purposes
of administration (Para. 29). Regional Project I would be located in the
southern half of Rio Grande do Sul which is predominantly natural grass-
land of easy contour (Map I), ideally suited for livestock production.
The climate is temperate with an annual rainfall averaging 1,200 mm.
Abundant rains in winter and spring are normally followed by short dry
spells in summer. Mean temperatures vary between 160 and 190 C. Soils
are volcanic in origin varying from clay loam to sandy loam and are
deficient in both phosphate and nitrogen. Shallow basaltic soils with
rock outcrops predominate in the Southwest. The majority of farms are
engaged in a combined cattle breeding, raising, and fattening operation
in which European breeds predominate. Sheep flocks, mainly Corriedale
and Romney Marsh, are kept primarily for wool production, and cattle and
sheep graze together on the same pastures'. For decades, emphasis has
been placed on   selective breeding so that considerable benefits can be
expected to result from pasture improvement and better livestock husbandry.
21.       Regional Projects II and III would be located in Central Brazil
(Map II) and are mostly within the tropics. Tne topography varies from
extensive highland plateaux at altitudes of around 600 m to low-lying
flood plains of the Paraguay River and its tributaries. In the highlands,
a sub-tropical climate prevails and mild frosts occur in winter. Mean
temperatures range from 180 to 2>0 C. Summer temperatures are high on the
plains. Average annual rainfall throughout the area varies from 1,300 to
1,900 mm of which 90 per cent is received during October-April. Soils
vary considerably from deep clay-loam red soils of medium fertility to
poor sandy cerrado soils. The climax vegetation is heavy forest on the



- 7-
more fertile highlands, low open scrub-type canopy on the poorer soils,
and natural grasslands on the flood plains. The development of livestock
farming in Central Brazil has long been based on the expansion of land
under pasture through forest and bush clearance. In the Project areas,
the more progressive ranchers have become aware of the considerable potential
of their farms and of the need to intensify their methods. Cattle production
is based on criollo and zebu breeds and their crosses, well adapted to the
environment and responsive to improved management. Breeding and rearing
operations predominate, though some stock are fattened on farms close to
markets.
Main Features
22.       A total of about 1,800 farms in six States would be involved:
No. of Farm Plans to be Initiated
1st Year   2nd Year   3rd Year     Total
A. REGION I
Rio Grande do Sul            150        250        350          750
B. REGION II
Mato Grosso                   75        175        250          500
Sao Paulo & North Parana      25         50         75          150
100        225        325          650
C. REGION III
Goias                         50        100        150          300
Minas Gerais                  25         25         50          100
75        125        200          400
GRAND TOTAL                  325        600        875        1,800
23.       Since efficient beef and sheep farming requires a relatively
large-scale operation, it is expected that most participating ranches in
Rio Grande do SulJ would not be less than 800 ha and participating ranches



-8-
in Central Brazil would have no less than 500 heads of cattle2-/.  The herd size
is likely to vary from area to area but, on the average, participating farms
are expected to have an initial herd size ecuivalent to 1,100 animals unitsY/.
It is expected that the Project would initially involve about 2,300,000 cattle
and 1,800,000 sheep, or about 4% and 14% respectively of the estimated cattle
and sheep population in Project area States.
24.       There are enough comaercial farms in the Project areas to allow
adecuate selection by the Project administration. The criteria for selection
would be: (a) quality and potential of physical farm resources; (b) ability
and willingness of owner and manager to put into practice improved management
practices; (c) economic feasibility of farm projects; and (d) creditworthiness
of farmer. Selection would be confined to farms within the Project areas, but
in the light of the long-term deve'.opmental objectives, as the Project
progresses, a limited number of farms to serve as demonstration farms might
be financed in areas outside the specific Project zones, provided the Project
Director concerned ascertains that they can be adequately supervised and
serviced.
25.       The scarcity of thin cattle for fattening is a major limiting
factor to commercial beef production and, therefore, the Project would focus
on the breeding stage of livestock farming. In Central Brazil, it is
expected that the main business of four out of five participating ranchers
would be breeding.  In areas well suited to integrated-li.vestock production,
particularly in Rio Grande do Sul, Sao Paulo, and Parana, the Project would
be directed at raising the productivity of the integral farming operation,
including fattening.
26.       The Project would emphasize pasture improvement and better livestock
husbandry. All loans would be based on technically sound and economically
justified farm development plans. For the average participating farm
improved pastures would be established on 300-h00 ha over a 3-year period
and provision made for weeding, reseeding, replanting, and refertilization,
as required, for another year following pasture establishment. In Rio Grande
do Sul, improved strains of rye grass and clover would be seeded and adequate
dressings of phosphates applied. Trench silos would be built to conserve
surplus grass, as silage, principally for winter feeding.   In Central Brazil,
tropical grasses would be planted and trials with suitable legumes would be
carried out. In all areas, provision would be made for fencing, watering
facilities, and agricultural machinery related to improved pasture and
livestock management. More paddocks would ensure better care-of the breeding
herd at calving and of the calves at weaning. Livestock husbandry would be
improved by appropriate handling and animal health facilities. Finance wiould
be provided for storage of farm machinery and implements and for housing of
farm operators and laborers.
1/ In Rio Grande, ranch boundaries are clearly defined; in Central
Brazil, ranches are more extensive and number of stock rather than
acreage is more indicative of the size of the ranching operation.
2/ One animal unit equals one adult cow (4 years or over),
or five adult sheep (2 years or over).



-9-
27.       Livestock purchases would be from local sources and would be
mainly breeding bulls required for stock improvement. Except in Svio Paulo
and Parana where the nutritional level is already high and in North Goiass
where relatively large tracks of new land would be cleared, the additional
feed provided by the new pastures would initially be used for raising the
nutritional level of existing stock. Because of the low reproductive
efficiency of the present system, this would be more profitable than feeding
newly purchased breeding stock. Allowances for heifer purchase under the
Project is, therefore, small. However, participating farmers would need
short- and medium-term credit, estimated at 15 per cent of annual long-
term funds necessary, to complement the development finance provided under
the Project. During negotiations, assurance was obtained that the Government
would furnish the Central Bank with such loan funds as may be required to
provide participating banks with any other financing necessary to complement
the long-term investments envisaged in the Project,
28.       The Project is expected to increase beef annual output by 160 per
cent, after a 15-year development period. This would be achieved by an
increase in the weaning rate from about 50% to about 70%, a reduction in the
mortality rate of adult stock from around 5 to 3 per cent, and a progressive
increase in take-off .rate from 14 to 22 per cent gJ. The stocking rates of
participating farms would increase by more than 50 per cent over the develop-
ment period. Mutton and wool output would increase by about 270 and 80 per
cent respectively. At the higher levels of productivity projected; health
control measures assume major importance. Project technicians would ensure
that adequate stock control and health measures are implemented as a matter
of routine on Project farms. Vaccination against foot-and-mouth disease at
4-month intervals would be compulstory on Project farms and assurance was
obtained to this effect.
Organization and Management
29.       Technical service is essential to the successful implementation
of the Project. Because of the distances involved and the variations in
natural conditions already referred to, effective Project administration
requires establishment of three separate Regional Projects. Each Regional
Project would have a separate Regional Office, staffed with the full time
services of highly trained and experienced Brazilian technicians. The
Regional Offices would be headed by Project Directors to be internationally
recruited, advised by Regional Honorary Commissions which will include
representatives of the State Secretaries of Agriculture concerned, local
banks, and producers.  Regional Offices would be in Bage, Rio Grande do
Sul (Region I); Campo Grande, Mato Grosso (Region II); and Goiana, Goias
(Region III). A National Honorary Commission would be organized for setting
Project policies, hiring Project personnel, and dealing with Government
and the Bank. Details of Project organization are shown in Annex h.
1/ A take-off rate of 24 per cent might theoretically be possible in the
complete absence of disease (a situation which is, of course, unrealistic
to assume in any country). This-is based on the assumption that under
such ideal conditions weaning rate would rise to 90 per cent and no deaths
in adult stock would occur. Age of slaughter of 2-3 years, would remain
the same.



- 10 -
During negotiations, assurance was obtained from the Brazilian Government
for the creation of the above Comuiss ons and Regional Offices oefore the
loan agreement is signed.   The composition, powers, duties and responsibilities
of these bodies wfould be defined in agreement with the Bank.
30.       Loans to farmers would be based on farm plans approved by the
Regional Project Directors concerned. The financial evaluation of farm
projects, inspection of collaterals, and control of disbursement would be
the responsibility of participating banks. They would maintain close
liaison with the Project Directors. Individual loans exceeding US$ 200,000
would require prior Bank approval and assurance was obtained in this regard.
31.       The three Project Directors would have major responsibility for
the success of their respective Regional Projects. They would have all the
power and autonomy commensurate with this responsibility.   They would be
in charge of selection, training, and management of Project technicians.
Assurance was obtained from the Brazilian Government for the appointment by
the National Honorary Commission of three qualified Directors, satisfactory
to the Bank, before the loan becomes effective in each zone.   Assurance was,
likewise, obtained that adequate staff be employed to ensure the efficiency of
the Regional Project offices.   The technicians would be trained agronomists,
veterinarians, and economists. Brazil has enough technicians of this type.
The following numbers would be required.
1st Year   2nd Year   3rd Year     Total
RegionI          8          8          13         29
Region II        5          6          10         21
Region III       _          4           8         16
Totals:      17         18          31         66
32.       The Central Bank would supervise the lending activities of the
participating banks. Loans to be financed under the Project would be those
made only by banks authorized by the Central Bank under criteria establishod
in agreement with the Bank. Factors which would be taken into consideration
in the selection of participating banks would include the following, as a
minimum. (a) past experience and performance in agricultural credit; (b)
sound financial condition combined with satisfactory and stable earnings;
(c) character, capacity, and integrity of management; (d) number of offices
in the Project area; and (e) facility of communication among offices.
Besides Banco do Brasil, nine other banks have communicated their desire
to participate in the Project.  Together, these banks have sufficient
offices to service the Project area - the Banco do Brasil alone having more
than 100 offices. During negotiations, assurance was obtained from the
Central Bank that banks would be authorized to participate in the Project
under criteria established in agreement with the Bank.



33.           The Central Bank would rediscount up to 100 per cent of any loan
made by a participating bank under the Project; i.e., about 80 per cent of
the cost of on-farm investment, The Government has expressed its intention
to use non-inflationary soirces of finance for these rediscounts, e.g. the
proceeds of sales of Central Bank bonds to the conmercial banking sector*
Assurance was obtained that the rediscount of loans made by participating
banks to livestock producers would be given priority writhin the overall
credit ceilings that may be in effect in Brazil from time to time. Further-
more, in order to expedite rediscounts, assurance was obtained that branch
offices of Banco do Brasil w;ould be designated as rediscounting agents for
the Central Bank, when necessary,
Cost Estimates
34.           Total Project cost is estimated at about US$ 80.0 million, of
which about us$ 74.6 million would be for on-farm development and about
US$ 5.4 million would be for technical services. The foreign exchange
component of the Project is estimated at about US$ 14 million, or about 18
per cent of the total costfY.  Summary cost estimates, by regions, are shown
below. Details are given in Annexes 5 and 6.
Region    Region    Region   Nat.Hon.
I  II    -III       Comm,    Total
(U.S, $'000)
On-Farm Development Costs
Land Clearance . . . e e ,       -      2,100.0   2,200.0     -        4,300.0
Pasture Establishment. . .   15,750.0   6X120.0   3,665.0      -      25,535.0
Pasture Maintenance. . . .    3.600o0     690o0     455.0     -        4,745.0
Fencing. O e     . O * * * O  4,200.0   4,158.0    2,365.0     -      10,723.0
Water Facilities e .   .. .   2,100.0    2,070.0  1,010.0      -       5,180,0
Farm Machinery . . e v v .    3,900,0   1,765.0     970.0      -       6,635.0
Farm Buildings * O O e e e       -        760c0     43°0.     -        1,190.0
Silos. . . . v . . . . e .      150.0      -         -        -          150,0
Corrals. e o                     -        360o0     305.0     -          665,0
Local Purchase of Livestock      -      31600o0   1 870,0     -       5,470.0
Sub-Total. . a.    e G     29a700.0  321   eb 0             -       64,593o0
Add: Contingencies . . . .    4,650o0     357c0   2o060o0      -      10 067.0
Total On-Farm Dev. Costs .   34,350,0            15J3          -
Cost of Technical Services
Office Adm. & Farm Services   1,480.8   1,354.o   1,003.1   349.9      4,187.8
Project Research . . . . e      150.0     200.0     150.0      -         500.0
Marketing Study. * . . . .       -          -         -      200.0       200.0
Sub-Total. . . . .          1,630.    1,554.0   1,153.1   549.9 4.9b7,d
Add: Contingencies . . . .      163.2     155.5     115.3     55°0       489.0
Total Technical Services   e 12794.0        1 .604-.93
Grand Total. . . . . . a X   36,144.0  26j689.5  16,598.4    604.9    80,036.8
1/ The foreign exchange component included an estimate of the foreign
exchange cost of the imported element in on-farm investment items
procured from local manufacturers. For instance, some tractor parts are
imported for locally manufactured tractors.



- 12 -
35.       The above estimates.l/ were prepared by the appraisal mission on
the basis of farm interviews in the Project areas. The estimates are
based on conservative assumptions. A contingency of 15 per cent for on-farm
development costs, and of 10 per cent for technical services costs, was
included because of the hazards implicit in cost estimation in an inflationary
environment. This provision covers possible under-estimates both in quantity
and per unit costs of inputs. The cost estimates for technical services
include an allowance for carrying out research related to Project needs
(Annex 7) and a separate amoint for a livestock marketing study.
Financing
36.       Overall financing for the Project would be as follows:
On-Farm       Cost of Technical
Development Costs      Services           Total Costs
_%    ~(US $s M)  %       (US $ M     f       (US $ M)
a. Farmers            20        14.9     -           -       19        14.9
b.  Govt. and Banks   30        22.4     50         2.7      31        25.1
c.  Bank Loan         50        37.3     50         2.7      50        40.0
100        741.7   100         :;      100        80.0
.         =-      =
The expected contribution of the farmer is considered reasonable, taking into
account the likely increase in his operating costs because of-expanded
operations and of the need to retain animals in his herd for stock build-up.
Together with the share of Government and Brazilian financial institutionss,
the local contribution to the Project would be 50 per cent of total Project
costs; the Bank loan would provide the other $0 per cent. The Bank loan
would finance the foreign exchange costs of the Project (about 36 per cent
of the Bank loan), -and part of the requirements in'local currency. Despite
the Brazilian Government's difficult budgetary problems, in addition to its
contribution to the Project, the Government has assured that it would furnish
the Central Bank with all short- and medium-term funds necessary to
complement the long-term investments contemplated in the Project (Para. 54).
The Bank loan would be allocated to Regional Project I - US$ 18.0 million;
Regional Project II - US$ 13.4 million; Regional Project III - US$ 8.3
million; and National Honorary Commission - US$ 0.3 million. -During
negotiations, assurance was obtained that transfers of allocations would be
made only in agreement with the Bank. Assurance was also obtained for the
establishment of a loan Fund and a Technical Services Fund in the Central
Bank for the Project. The Government would be required to provide advances
to both Funds, to cover any lag between receipts and disbursements. Both
Funds would be audited by an auditor acceptable to the Bank. These were
confirmed during negotiations.
1/ The total estimate in the Braziliani proposal was US$ 10.7 million.
The difference is largely due to the exclusion of fattening regions
from the Project areas.



-13-
Rolending Terms
37.           The relending terms proposed for the Project, embodying
correction of loan principal, have been designed:  (a) to fit the repayment
burden to the slow-yielding nature of livestock investment; (b) to charge
interest at a positive rate, in real terms, whatever the future course of
inflation in Brazil; (c) to assure to a great degree acceptance of the
relending terms by commercial farmers by giving them inducements during the
early years of farm development; and (d) to assure the active participation
of banks in the Project by providing them a margin which is satisfactory
and in accordance with present agricultural credit practice in Brazil.
38.           A farmer would normally receive a loan for each of the four
years of his farm development plan. The terms of the lcans to the livestock
farmers would be as follows: (i) Loans would be for up to 12 years with a
grace period of up to 4 years. (ii) To maintain the value of the principal
while the general level of prices increased, the balance of the principal
would be adjusted annaally by an indax based on cattle and/or wool prices.
The adjustment index wJould be obtained by deducting ten points from the
price index for each year of grace or the inflation rate during the year,
whichever is lower. The base year for all adjustments would be the year in
which the loan is made.  (iJi) An interest rate of 14% applied to -the
adjusted principal, except during the grace period, when the interest
would be computed on the adjusted balance as of year one. (iv) The adjust-
ment of the loan and the payment of interest and amortization would be
annual and would take place at the loan's anniversax7. The repayment terms
and the adjustment formula are illustrated by the case of a Cr$ 1,000 loan
for 12 years with a grace period of 4 years:
(a) Payments during grace period:
1. Principal -    None
2. Interest    - Cr$ 1,000 x .1 = Cr$ 1h0 annually
(b) Payments during amortization (on the 5th year assuming index
price has gone up to 260 from the year of the sub-loan):
1, Principal - Cr$ 1,000 x (1,60 - .40) = Cr$ 150OO
d years-                      -
2. Interest    -  Cr$ 1,000 x (1.60 - .40) x .lh =' Cr$ 168o00
(c)  Payments during amortization (on the 6th year assuming indax
price has gone up to 170 from the year of the sub-loan):
1.  Principal  -  Cr$ 1 000 x (170   4o0) = Cr$ 162.50
years
2.  Interest   -  Cr$ 875 x (1.70 - o40) x ol4 = Cr$ 159.25
39.           If the rate of inflation does not rise above the recent level
of 40-50 per cent per armum, the proposed lending terms would mean a real



-14 -
lending rate to farmers of at least 7 per cent per annuml/. Amounts derived
from loan adjustment would be to the credit of the Government. This amount
would be sufficient to cover the exchange risk arising out of the Bank
loan and to help defray costs of technical services. During negotiations,
assurance was obtained that the Central Bank would require participating
banks to lend to Project farmers under terms and conditions established by
the Central Bank in agreement with the Bank. A full discussion of the
relending terms for the Project appears in Annex 8.
40.           For rediscounts with the Central Bank, participating banks
-would be charged one per cent above the interest rate of the Bank loan.
The Central Bank after meeting its own direct administrative expenses
connected with the Project (which are expected to be negligible), would
distribute the income from rediscounts as follows: all amounts required to
service the Bank loan would be credited to the Livestock Loan Fund; the
balance would be credited to the Technical Services Fund0 In view of the
fact that the farmers would be charged 14 per cent for the loans, it is
expected that a margin of 7 per cent (unadjusted) would accrue to participat-
ing banks to take care of administrative expenses and provide for net
profit. This is reasonable considering the additional costs which banks
would have to incur to process long-term loans of the type envisaged under
the Project. In case of default, the Central Bank would have recourse to
the participating banks for principal and interest unadjusted. However,
collateral pledged by farmers on Project loans would secure the entire
debt service burden, including loan adjustment. Assurance was obtained that
terms and conditions of rediscounts and advances to participating banks
would be established in agreement with the Bank.
Disbursement
41.           Pasture establishment would take three years and pasture
consolidation would require another year, Development would be phased
over this period to allow farmers to gain experience in pasture management
and to match the increases in available feed with the expected build-up in
herd numbers. The farm plans to be developed would be initiated over three
years (Para. 26), hence the disbursement period would cover six years.
42.           Withdrawals from the Bank loan for farm development would be
62.5 per cent of disbursements made by participating banks for this purpose.
This method is proposed since it would not be feasible to relate the
Bank's participation directly to individual items incurred for farm develop-
ment. Thus, documentation of the percentage reimbursements would consist
of audited statements (Para. 36) submitted by the Central Bank, showing
amounts disbursed by participating banks to farmers. Participating banks
1/ Because of the high income elasticity of demand for beef, it is
expected that over the long-run, prices for the output of Project
farms will rise at least as fast as farm input prices. The annual
deduction from the price index during the grace period is designed
to provide participating farmers with some safeguard against the
risk of unfavorable short-term price variations.



- 15 -
would be required to maintain separate accounts for loans to farmers over
the life of the Project.   The Bank would also finance 50 per cent of disburse.-
ments covering technical services against usual documentation. The National
Honorary Commission would see to it that adequate financial records for
control of technical services expenditures are kept and assurance was obtained
that these would be audited by an independent auditing firm acceptable to
the Bank.
Operating Results
43.       The expected financial operations of the Central Bank for the
Project are set forth in Annex 9. According to this projection, the Govern-
ment would have to provide contributions to the Loan Fund of about
US$ 22.4 million during the first seven years. In addition, advances would be
required to cover any lag betwTeen rediscounts and disbursements from the
Bank loan; the advances would be fuLly recovered by the end of the ninth
year. The projection also shows that about US$ 0.5 million derived from
loan adjustment would have to be transferred to the Technical Services Fund
to complement the one per cent interest charge provided for this Fund, from
farmer's debt service. This would make it possible to repay in full the
Government contribution to the financing of technical services. From the
ninth year, the Project is expected to have cash surpluses, largely because
of accumulations of Government contributions to the Project. Assurance was
obtained to the effect that such surpluses would be used as they. are
accumulated to further livestock development in Brazil, along the lines of
the Project. This revolving feature may be expected to benefit another
500-600 commercial farmers.
Procurement
44.       The Project is made up of a large number of individual farm
development schemes spread over a wide geographic area. It would involve
about 1,800 loans, averaging US$ 33,000, over an area almost the size of
continental Europe. The farm schemes are to be drawn up taking account of
the specific technical, economic, and financial circumstances of each farn
applicant. Procurement would, therefore, be in accordance with each farm's
needs. Under the circumstances, local trade channels, which have adequate
repair facilities and with which farmers have been accustomed to doing
business, would be appropriate for procurement requirements of the Project.
45.       There are a large number of major international firms manufacturing
tractors and farm implements in Brazil with adequate distribution and
service facilities in the Project areas, and these are very competitive.
Import duties of 30 per cent applies only to tractors in the medium power
range (25 to 70 H.P.). Imports of farm implements which have no similar
manufacture in Brazil, of breeding cattle, of seeds, and of barbed wire
needed for fencing carry no import duty. Rock phosphate is imported duty
free while super phosphate imports carry a modest import duty (10-20 per cent
of the cif value). On the whole, competition is keen among dealers which
supply machinery, fertilizers, seeds, and fencing materials and among
contractors installing fencing and water supply facilities in the Project
areas. The Government is pursuing a policy of gradual liberalization of the
trade in farm inputs. In the current economic circumstances of Brazil,
prices of such inputs can be viewed as reasonable.



- 16 -
IV. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
46.           Herd development and farm model return calculations are set
forth in Annex 10. The projections are based on seven models, representative
of the farming conditions encountered in the Project area. Cost assumptions
underlying the calculations appear in Annex 11 Expected results per
farm would be as follows:
Per Cent
Before                         Ijcrease
Develop-     After    After      After
ment      6 Years   15 Years  15 Years
(a) Rio Grande do Sul -
2,000 ha; Us$ 45,800
investment per farm
Herd, head . . . e a e o    1,100      1,200      1,700       55
Flock, head . . . . . .     2,L400     3,000      3,700       55
Cattle sales, head . . .      135        235        345      160
IWool sales, kg e . * * *   6,000      9,500     10,700       80
Net Value of
Production, US$    .      12,400    21,100     29.300      135
(b) Sao Paulo and Parana -
2,000 ha; US$ 41,000
investment per farm
Herd, head . . . . . a.     1,100      1,400      2,300      110
Cattle sales, head . . .      165        245        530      220
Net Value of
Production, US$  . . .   11,000     13,500     33,600      200
(c) Mato Grosso, Pantanal and
Araguaya areas, Goias -
8,500 ha; US$ 40,600
investment per farm
Herd, head. e v v  o o a    2j,000     2,200      3,000       50
Cattle sales, head . . .      270        440        530       95
Net Value of
Production, US$  . . .   13,500     25,700     27, 600     105
(d) I$ato Grosso, Planalto, SW
and Brazilia areas, Goias -
5,700 ha; US$ 35, 800
investment per farm
Herd, head  . . . . e v .   1,200      1,400      2,000       75
Cattle sales, head . . .      180        280        455      150
Net Value of
Production, US$ $   . .   9,200     16,100     26,1400     190



- 17 -
Per Cint
Before                          Increase
Develop-     After     After      After
ment      6 Years   15 Years   15 Years
(e) North Goias -
10,200 ha; us$ 56,ooo
investment per farm
Herd, head .  * , e  . .       5°°      1,300      1,500      200
Cattle sales, head . .          70        230        330      370
Net Value of
Production, US$. . .       3,500     10,800     17,900      410
(f) South Goias -
1,000 ha; US$ 20,000
investment per farm
Herd, head a. e    e   a e   1,000      1,100      1,600       60
Cattle sales, head . v .       130        190        325      150
Net Value of
Production, US$  . . .     7,900     13,200     22,200      180
(g) Minas Gerais -
4,000 ha; US$ 37,000
investment per farm
Herd, head  . . . . . .      1,150      1,250      2,030       80
Cattle sales, head . .         170        230        375      120
Net Value of
Production, US$  . . .     9,500     12,300     19,900      110
47.       Return calculations for the Project as a whole appear in Annex 12.
Substantially improved weaning rates, reduced mortality, higher carrying
capacity, and increased takeoff would underlie the expected productivity
gains, The projections show that the net operating income after taxes
would rise 150 per cent after 15 years for the average participating farmer,
representing an annual incremental net income of about US$ 14,500. In
addition, stock numbers would rise, representing an average increase in
value of US$ 50,000 per farm. These benefits would result from an average
investment per farm of US$ 41,500 including US$ 8,300 contributed from the
fanmer's own resources.
48.       The expected impact of the'Project on Brazil's livestock production
is described in Annex 13. The major benefit would result from the increased
sales of heifers and steers.  At full development, i.e. after 15 years, it
is expected that 150,000 additional heifers and 135,000 additional store
steers would be added to the national herd from Project farms. Moreover,
about 100,000 additional fat steers would be sold for slaughter - representing
22,000 to 25,000 tons of carcass beef. Annual wool sales from Project
farms would increase by 3,500 tons.  In terms of value added, production



from Project farms is expected to rise graduaIly from US$ 20.3 million before
development to US$ 50.8 million after 15 years. The life of on-farm investment
items provided under the Project is expected to average 20 years. On this
assumption and taking account both of the value of herd increase from Project
farms and of the expenditure incurred for technical services, the economic return
on investment expected from the Project would be about 18 per cent.
49.        The economic return calculation does not take into account the fact
that additional benefits would result from demonstration of modern production
techniques on Project farms and from training of Brazilian personnel in live-
stock development lending. Given the large untapped resources of Brazil's
livestock sector, these intangible benefits may prove to be substantial. As
a result of the Project, it is likely that demand for similar long-term credit
arrangements will rise and this may accelerate the strengthening of Brazil's
capital market in this respect. Again, the indirect benefits which would derive
from a banking structure made more responsive to the development needs of the
productive sectors of the Brazilian economy, could be of considerable importance,
though difficult to quantify.
50.        Assuming that 40 per cent of the increased production from Project
farms would be exported (this would correspond to the increased output from
Regional Project I), the gross increase in foreign exchange earnings resulting
from the Project would average about US$ 15 million a year over the life of
the Bank loan. Deducting the foreign exchange requirements of the Prbject
(36 per cent of the loan plus interest payments to Bank), the net foreign
exchange earnings should average about US$ 13.0 million per year.
V. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
51.        The Project is technically sound and economically justified.  Credit
would be extended to commercial farms in areas of high productivity potential,
for facilities having a great impact on farming efficiency. The administrative
arrangements for Project execution are well designed. Use would be made of
Brazil's well-developed banking infrastructure, and technical services for
on-farm development would be provided through adequately staffed Regional
Project offices headed by qualified Directors. The lending terms proposed are
adapted to the slow-yielding nature of livestock investment and include safe-
guards against problems of rapid inflation. The return on investment is
satisfactory both to individual farmers and to the economy as a whole.
52.        The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 40 million to the
Government of Brazil. It would finance 50 per cent of expenditures for on-farm
development and technical services. An appropriate term for the loan would
be 20 years including a grace period of 62 years. Under the loan arrangements,
the livestock producer would receive loans from commercial banks up to 80 per
cent of his investment with a term up to 12 years and a grace period up to 4
years. Since the last of these subloans under the proposed program would not
be made until 6 years from now, and taking into account the possibility of some
delays in repayments by livestock producers, it is necessary to provide a term
of 20 years for the final amortization of the Bank loan. Repayments from
livestock producers to the commercial banks and the Central Bank would, at least
if they were all made punctually, accumulate after 9 or 10 years in amounts
greater than those required to service the Bank loan. To this extent, temporary
surpluses would be available during the second decade of this loan operation
for further short-term lending in the livestock area.



- 19 -
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
of Brazil would, before the Loan Agreement is signed:
(a) Remove all price and foreign trade controls on cattle,
beef, mutton, and wool; and that the Bank may at its
option suspend the Bank loan if, at any time during its
life, the Government of Brazil or any of its political
subdivisions or their agencies shall have adopted
measures which would adversely and materially affect
the economic benefits expected to result from the Project
(Para. 14); and
(b)  Create a National Honorary Commission, three Regional
Honorary Commissions, and three Regional Project Offices
for the technical administration of the Project. The
composition, powers, duties, and responsibilities of
these bodies would be defined in agreement with the
Bank (Para. 29).
In accordance with these assurances, the Government of Brazil has already
removed all price and foreign trade controls on cattle, beef, mutton, and
wool and has already ,issued the necessary decree creating the Project
organization.
54.       During negotiations, the following non-standard assurances were
obtained:
(a) The Government of Brazil would:
(i)   Allocate the Bank loan as follows:   Regional
Project I - US$ 18.0 million; Regional Project II -
US$ 13.4 million; Regional Project III - US$ 8.3
million; and National Honorary Commission - US$ 0.3
million. Transfers of allocations would be made
only in agreement with the Bank (Para. 36);
(ii)  Establish a Loan Fund and Technical Services Fund
in the Central Bank. Make advances to both Funds
as may be necessary to cover the lag between
disbursements from the Funds and reimbursements
from the Bank Loan (Para. 36);
(iii) Furnish the Central Bank with such funds as may be
required to provide participating banks with any
other financing necessary to complement the long-
term investments envisaged in the Project (Para. 27);
(iv)  Undertake an expanded program against foot-and-mouth
disease and to require compulsory vaccination
against foot-and-mouth disease on Project farms
(Paras. 7 and 28); and
(v)   Undertake a study of cattle and beef marketing under
terms of reference agreed with the Bank (Para. 11).



- 20 -
(b) The Government of Brazil, through the National Honorary
Commission, would:
(i)   Employ, in agreement with the Bank, three qualified
Project Directors to head the Regional Project
Offices, as a condition for loan disbursement in
each respective zone (Para.. 31); and
(ii) Ensure that adequate staffing is provided the
Regional Project Offices (Para. 31).
(c) The Central Bank would:
(i)   Require that Project loans to a farmer exceeding
a total of US$ 200,000 are given only after prior
approval by the Bank (Para. 30);
(ii) Authorize the participation of banks in the
Project according to criteria established in
agreement with the Bank (Para. 3?);
(iii) Be prepared to rediscount 100 per cent of any
Project loan made by a participating Bank from
the Bank loan. The rediscount of such loans
would be given priority within the overall credit
ceilings that may be in effect in Brazil from
time to time (Para. 33);
(iv)  Require participating banks to lend to Project
farmers under terms and conditions established
by the Central Bank in agreement with the
Bank (Para. 39);
(v)   Agree with the Bank upon the terms and conditions
of rediscounts and advances to be granted to
participating banks (Para. 40); and
(vi)  Use any proceeds of collections from farmers over
and above what is necessary for servicing the
Bank loan to further livestock development in
Brazil through directed credit schemes along the
lines of the present Project (Para. 43).
August 30, 1967



ANNEX 1
Page 1
BRAZIL - LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Foot-and-Mouth Disease
1.        Of the diseases mentioned in Para. 7 which cause losses in live-
stock production in Brazil, ,Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD) is the most
prominent. It is not generally so well under control in Brazil as it is in
Argentina because effective vaccination programs are not yet in operation
on such a wide scale. The Bank has taken the occasion of this loan to
Brazil to insist during negotiations that vaccination against FMD would be
made compulsory on Project farms. Brazil has improved vaccination programs
in the forefront of its policy for controlling the disease.
2.        To carry out vaccination successfully with present vaccines
involves vaccination about every 4 months and this can only be done where
the system of livestock management is intensive enough to allow cattle to
be collected at suitable locations for regular vaccination. This involves,
amongst other things,fencing supplies and water points which are financed
under Bank livestock loans.
3.        Under the conditions of improved management which this Bank loan
to Brazil facilitates and with compulsory vaccination programs, losses due to
FMD on Project farms are expected not to reduce potential annual output
by more than 1 to 2 per cent a year. In the Project areas as a whole (on
both participating and non-participating farms) the reduction due to FMD
is not likely to exceed 3 per cent a year.
4.        It must be pointed out that there is considerable skepticism about
the validity of the often quoted figures of "25 per cent annual reduction
of cattle production due to FMD." (There was indeed considerable opposition
from some members of the Subpanel on Intensification of Animal Production
to the inclusion of such figures in the recent report of the President's
Science Advisory Committee). The figures are derived from some calculations
made years ago by an FAO Veterinarian and a recent check with the head of
the FAO Department concerned confirms that figures of 25 per cent loss
reaIly do not apply to the whole livestock production of any country but to
the losses which may be suffered in an infected herd during an outbreak of
the disease. The figure would not apply overall to all the livestock in
the country nor to a single herd except during a particular outbreak.
No one, of course, should minimize the losses due to FMD and other live-
stock diseases and constant efforts must be made to reduce losses and
bring diseases under control. There is no doubt that more should be done by
South American countries to control disease and to cooperate in programs
for RFID control. Because of the high cost of disease control programs,
the kind of program and its timing ought to be decided on economic grounds.
In the United Kingdom, it is policy to eradicate the disease by slaughtering
infected animals wherever the disease breaks out. In France and Germany
on the other hand, the policy is not to eradicate but to keep the incidence
of the disease to a low level by constant vaccination.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
5.        In Mexico, in 1946 when outbreaks of Foot-and-Mouth Disease occurred
in Central Mexioo, it was decided to undertake an eradication program not
only in the interests of Mexican livestock production but also to protect
livestock in the USA. The Program took 8 years. It cost the United States
about $135 million, and the cost to Mexico was also large. It required a
staff of about 8,000 veterinWrians and laymen, and 5,000 soldiers to enforce
it. The USA paid most of the cost of the Program because US farmers in
fact got most of the benefit and the US Government was under heavy pressure
from them to spare no expense necessary to eradicate the disease.
6.        Rough estimates were prepared in 1966 in the United States Department
of Agriculture (USDA) of possible costs of eradicating Foot-and-Mouth Disease
in Argentina. The figures quoted in this exercise, which can only be taken
as rough orders of magnitude, were that an eradication program might take
18 to 20 years, would require a staff of 40,000 civilians, and 15,000
soldiers for enforcement. To accomplish eradication would require the
slaughter of approximately 2 million head of cattle, sheep, goats, and hogs
out of a total existing population of about 94 million head. The cost
would be expected to be of the order of US$ 2-3 billion. Unlike the case
of Mexico, there would be no pressure from US farmers-for funds to assist
Argentina to eradicate the disease, so the full burden would presumably
fall on Argentina.
7.        Brazil is a much larger country, communications are less developed,
and its livestock industry is of a much more extensive nature, Moreover,
it has more than twice as many susceptible animals as Argentina. Conseauently,
an FMD eradication campaign there might require as much as 25 years and
approximately three times the staff, soldiers, facilities, and funds estimated
by USDA for Argentina.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BRAZIL - LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMT PROJECT
Marketing of Cattle and Bsef
Cattle Marketing
1.        A cattle producer in Rio Grande do Sul breeds, grazes and fattens
his animals on the same, or different farms belonging to him or through an
-arrangement with a few other producers. He often sells his fat cattle
through a marketing cooperative. The State is well served with slaughtering
facilities and the entire slaughter cattle supply comes from within the State.
Although same municipalities like Itaqui, Sao Borja, Piratini, etc., have nv
slaughterhouses, the location of slaughtering units is not a major marketing
problem in the State.
2.        Cattle production is not such an integrated operation in Central
Brazil. Quite a few sales transactions, from breeder to grazer to fattener,
intervene before an animal is sold for slaughter. Cattle are bred and
sometimes raised in Mato Grosso, Goias, Minas Gerais and Parana, which, by
and large, have lands of low or medium fertility.   With some exceptions
(e.g. Campo Grande in Mato Grosso) these States have negligible industr-al
sized slaughtering facilities, being mainly equipped with small miunicipal
and private slaughterhouses catering to daily local needs. As a result, a
great deal of store cattle flows from outlying states to conswaing centers
where soils are suited to fattening and the marketing infrastrEcture well
developed.  Railways and roads commimications, though improved, are inade-
quate. Hence, considerable cattle moves on foot from breeding or grazing
farms to rail or road transport heads, with considerable weight losses at
every stage. The rail or road journey to Sao Paulo State extends from 2
to 7 days. In the absence of basic arrangements for food and water on the
way, losses are relatively high.
3.        Brazil has no organized auction markets for fat cattle.   Cattle
purchases are handled by slaughterhouse agents or brokers. Transaction
procedures differ from area to area. In Rio Grande do Sul, the popular
practice is to purchase animals on a liveweight basis. If the animal is
purchased at a rail-head, the producer is offered a price per kg    live-
weight. The transport cost is borne by the slaughterhouse. AlternativJely,
the producer bears the transport cost and after delivery to.the slaughter-
house, the animal is rested with water for twelve hours and payment made
for the liveweight before slaughter. The cold dressed carcass weight syste-m
prevails in Central Brazil. The frigorifico bears the transport cost of
animals purchased at the railhead, and the producer is paid for the "com-
puted" cold dressed carcass weight of the animal.   This is assessed to be
around 52 - 54 percent of the liveweight of a fat steer and 50 percent of
a cow, during the "harvest", and about 16 - 50 percent between the "harvest'".
Alternatively, slaughterhouses, buy on the basis of cold dressed carcass
weight, less shrinkage of 2½ percent.   The latter method accounts for ove,
70 percent of the total purchases made by frigorificos in Sao Paulo.



ANNEX 2
Page  2
4.        The sale of cattle is based on weight more than quality.   Brazil
has no grading system. This has limited incentives to produce and market
better quality beef.  Of course, there is a heavy consumer demand for hind-
quarters, and slaughterhouses do charge different prices to butchers for
fores and hinds.  At the retail level, butchers also distinguish between
first and second class meat. However, on the whole, the relationship
between price and quality of meat is unreliable.
Processing and Storage
5.        About 75 percent of Brazil's beef production is marketed as fresh
beef, approximately 18 percent as frozen, and about 7 percent as the low-
priced charque (dried jerked beef), which has a market in the North and
Northeast. The small municipal slaughterhouses are the main producers of
fresh beef, accounting for over 50 percent of the total production. Within
24 to 36 hours, the live animal is converted to meat and shipped to re-
tailers. Ccnsiderable wastage of by-products goes with these smaller
slaughter operations. Private and cooperative slaughterhouses contribute
about 25 percent.   They have limited freezing facilities and, therefore,
besides producing fresh beef, they convert much good beef into low-quality
charque. The frigorificos, account for a little less than 20 percent of
Brazil's beef processing. Their operations, are efficient ard up to the
sanitation standards of the export market.
6.        The majority of significantly-sized slaughterhouses are concentrated
in Rio Grande do Sul and Central Brazil where the project will operate.
The number of medium and large units within the project area, is summarized
below:
Annual Installed                       Rio Grande do          Central Brazil
Slaughter Capacity                      Sul Region                Region
Up to 10,000 heads                          6                       1
From  10,000 to 50,000 heads               11                       1
From  50,000 to 100,000 heads               3                        4
Over 100,000 heads                         _                         2
Total        20                       3
7.        The seasonal nature of fat cattle supply allows most of the
slaughtering units, except small ones, to work close to ins+.alled capacity
(one shift) for 6-7 days a week, during the peak supply months. However,
when little fat cattle is available, many close their doors or operate only
1 to 2 days a week. Expressed in terms of annual effectively utilized
capacity, the units can be said to be under-utilized. As the Project aims
at spreading the cattle supply more evenly over the harvesting period,
slaughtering capacity is not expected to be a bottleneck to increased beef
production.
8.        The freezing capacity available in Rio Grande do Sul and Sao
Paulo, mainly in the hands of large frigorificos, is about sufficient for
about 23,000 tons of beef at a time. This represents Brazil's meat demand
for 2 weeks. Because most beef is consumed fresh within Brazil, spoilage



ANNEX 2
Pago 3
is not a great problem and refrigeration is not essential.  However, addi-
tional investments in refrigerated facilities will be required if Brazil
succeeds in substantially increasing its beef surplus available for export.
Conclusion
-9.        In the short run, there are no serious problems of marketing the
additional beef produced by the Project. However, the Government hopes to
extend its livestock development efforts in other areas of Brazil. Further-
more, while market conditions have evolved considerably over the years, the
processing industry has been slow in adapting to the new conditions. A
study analyzing the effectiveness of existing processing and transport
facilities, and setting forth a program for modernizing the marketing set-
up is important for long-term development of the livestock sector.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BRAZIL LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Framework for Credit
I. The Brazilian Banking System
General Structure
-1.        The Brazilian banking system consists of:   (a) the National
Monetary Council; (b) the Central Bank of Brazil; (c) the Banco do Brasil;
(d) other commercial banks - which are of mixed ownership (government and
private) or purely privately owned; (e) the National Bank of Economic
Development and government-owned regional development banks; and (f) savings
banks.
2.        There are over 7,000 banking offices all over the country
representing over 300 banks. Rural areas especially in northeastern and
western Brazil are served by the branches of Banco do Brasil.
The National Monetary Council
3.        Law No. 4595 (Banking Reform Law) of December 31, 1964, 'defines
the composition, responsibilities, and powers of the National Monetary
Council (Council). The Council consists of: (a) The Minister of Finance,
as Chairman; (b) The Minister of Industry and Commerce; (c) The Minister
of Planning and Economic Coordination; (d) The President of the Banco do
Brasil; (e) The President of the National Bank of Economic Development;
and (f) Six others appointed by the President of the Republic for six-year
terms from Brazilians of outstanding reputation and competence in economic
and financial matters.
4.        The Council is responsible for setting the monetary and credit
policies of the Nation in accordance with the following objectives:
(a) regulate the internal value of the Cruzeiro by adapting the money supply
to the needs of the economy; (b) maintain the international value of the
Cruzeiro; (c) channel public and private credit to promote economic
development; (d) coordinate monetary and fiscal policies of the Government;
and (e) promote the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions and
the greater efficiency of the system of payments. The Council is aided
in its work by Consultative Commissions in the field of banking, rural
credit, industrial credit, and capital market.
The Central Bank of Brazil
5.        The Central Bank of Brazil (Central Bank) is the executory and
supervisory institution giving effect to the monetary and credit policies
of the National Monetary Council and ensuring that such policies are
observed and adhered to by the financial system.



A£NX  3
Page 2
6.        Some of the more important powers and duties of the Central Bank
are: (a) to exercise control over all forms of credit; (b) to grant
rediscounts and loans to financial institutions; (c) to receive deposits
of financial institutions including those required to be kept against
deposit liabilities; (d) to authorize financial institutions to function,
establish branches and offices, and to change or alter their organization;
(e) to examine a financial institution's operations; and (f) to deal with
foreign and international financial institutions, in the name of the
-Brazilian Government, in promoting the placement of internal and external
loans.
7.        The Central Bank is administered by four directors chosen from
the members of the National Monetary Council. One of the directors
serves as President but each director is in charge of a group of depart-
ments. Appendix 3-1 is an organization chart of the Central Bank.
8.        The rediscounting operations of the Project would be the
responsibility of a department in the Central Bank called "Gerencia de
Coordinacion de Credito Rural e Industrial' (GECRI). At present, GECRI
administers a group of funds called "Fundo Geral para a Agricultura e
Industria" (FUNAGRI) whose resources are used to rediscount agricultural
production and industrial paper which conform to the. objectives. of the
Brazilian Government. GECRI charges a rediscount rate of 7 per cent per
annum but rediscounting banks cannot charge more than 14 per cent per
annum on paper offered for rediscount.
The Banco do Brasil, S.A.
9.        The Banco do Brasil, S.A., the largest and most important bank
in Brazil, was founded in 1808. It is of mixed ownership (sociedad de
Economia mixta) with the Federal Government owning more than fifty-five
per cent of its stock. On December 31, 1965, it had paid-in capital of
Cr$ 4.8 billion and surplus reserves of more than Cr$ 150 billion.
10.       The Banco do Brasil is a commercial bank.   In addition, it is
the financial agent of the Treasury and depository of Government funds.
Commercial banks maintain sizeable deposits with Banco do Brasil because
of its clearing house functions and the fact that it has a network of
branches and offices all over Brazil to serve the needs of correspondent
banks.
11.       The Banco do Brasil has four operational departments:   the General
Credit Department headed by four directors, one for each of the four
geographic zones of the country; the Agricultural and Industrial Department
(CREAI) headed by two directors, one for industry and the other for agri-
culture; the Exchange Department headed by a director; and the Foreign
Trade Department headed by a director.   The aforementioned directors plus
a Director-Superintendent and the President of the Banco do Brasil itself
compose its Board of Directors. The President and the Director of the
Foreign Trade Department are appointed by the President of the Republic,
while the other directors are elected by the stockholders.



ANNEX 3
Page .3
Commercial Banks
12.       Brazilian banks are organized as share companies (sociedad
anonimas) with the shareholders liable up to the amount of their subscrip-
tions, while directors are liable for all losses. A bank usually limits
its business to its own region. Commercial banks deal primarily in dis-
counts and short-term working capital, differing as to preferred areas of
finance. Some specialize in foreign trade, others may finance one or more
products, between harvest and sales for export, or extend credit to
processors or agricultural producers, finance internal wholesale trade, or
even urban mortgage credit. Foreign banks specialize in the financing
of foreign trade and in the extension of credits to foreign firms. In
addition to general credit activities, commercial banks collect checks,
bills of exchange, and "duplicatas" for their customers.
13.       In both 1960 and 1965, short-term loans (current account loans
and bills discounted) accounted for over 95 per cent of the earning assets
of commercial banks. Current account loans are usually in the form of
six months or one year contracts against "duplicatas" or other bills.
Loans are generally for 80 per cent of the value of paper and interest is
paid only on the amount of the overdraft outstanding. On diseounrts of
"duplicatas", bills of exchange, and promissory notes, maturities range
from less than 120 days to a maximum of 8 months, and are not generally
renewable.
1.       Commercial bank deposits are now almost wholly in the form of
sight and short-term deposits. Recently, the monetary authorities and
the banks have tried to encourage the growth of time deposits by decreasing
the reserve requirements against these deposits, by prohibiting interest
to be paid on sight deposits, and by increasing rates paid on time deposits.
Interest of 3 per cent to 5 per cent per annum is now paid on time deposits
of 30 to 120 days, while fixed term deposits of 6 months or longer are paid
interest at 18 to 21 per cent annually.
Development Banks
15.       The Brazilian Government's development plans for various sectors
of the economy are financed by the following specially adapted institutions:
Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico (BNDE), Banco de Nordeste,
and Banco do Credito do Amazonia. The latter two are regional development
banks.
16.       The BNDE which operates in the entire country is a public
corporation whose entire capital is owned by the Brazilian Government.
Besides funds from capital and accumulated profits, lending funds come
from Government grants; from compulsory deposits from savings banks,
insurance and trust companies, and social security agencies; from compulsory
loans from income tax payers; and f.om funds originating from agreements
between Brazil and the United States under United States Law No. 480.



17.       The field of lending activity of the BNDE includes:  re-equipment
and expansion of the railway system, re-equipment and expansion of harbor
installation and system of navigation; construction and expansion of the
electric power systems; installation and expansion of basic industries;
construction and expansion of warehouses, silos, slaughterhouses, and meat-
packing plants; and development of agriculture including rural electrifi-
cation through the accessory development of small waterfalls and other
-means. Owing to the relative scarcity of available funds, the BNDE has not
gone into agricultural lending.
Savings Banks
18.       Brazil has a Federal savings bank system and several State savings
bank systems. All savings banks are Government-owned. Just as commercial
banks accept time deposits, savings banks accept demand deposits and furnish
checking facilities. In 1964, over 90 per cent of deposits were sight
deposits.
19.       Savings banks hold about 50 per cent of their loans in mortgages
and have been particularly strong investors in urban real estate. Federal
savings banks have helped finance federal government operations by invest-
ing in government bonds and shares of semi-government corporations, as
well as by depositing funds with the Treasury.
II. Agricultural and Livestock Credit
20.       At the end of 1965 total agricultural loans of the banking system
amounted to about Cr$1,223 billion, of wjhich Cr$711 billion, or 58 per
cent, was held by the Banco do Brasil. On the same date, the banking system
had livestock loans totalling to Cr$199 billion, of which only Cr$51 billiorl,
or 25 per cent, was held by Banco do Brasil.  This nould indicate that Banco do
Brasil in comparison with other banks was less active in the field of
livestock lending. This is shown by the followirng table of loans granted
by Banco do Brasil:
Total
Loans         Agricultural Loans          Livestock Loans
End of      Granted     (Cr$ M)       of Total     (Cr$ Mi)*   % of Total
1955        12,043       9,959        80.3          2,444        19.7
1960        51,062      39,676        77.7         11,386        22.3
1963       194,041     168,112        86.6         25,929        13.4
1964       480,282     418,271        87.1         62,011        12.9
1965       539,808     473,189        88.o         64,619        12.0
Although total loans granted have increased in 1965 as compared to 1960,
the increase is more apparent than real since the agricultural price index



AENNEX 3
Page 7
in 1965 was ten times that of 1960. The relative share of livestock loans
to total agricultural lending even became smaller and much less in 1965
when expressed in terms of 1960 prices.
21.       In agriculture as in industry, the role of Brazil's organized
capital market is restricted and hindered by financial arrangements
unsuitable to conditions of'high and persistent inflation. The bulk of
institutional lending to agriculture is short term, generally 60-90 days.
Interest and discounts charged range from 1.5 to 3 per cent per month
plus commission, paid in advance. This means an effective rate of interest
of as high as 4 per cent per month, approximating the current rate of
inflation.
22.       There is some medium-term lending (2-5 years) for agricultural
machinery, implements, farm buildings, etc., mostly by Banco do Brasil.
Interest charged is 14-18 per cent per annum. At the current rate of
inflation, this implies considerable subsidy: 25-35 per cent of amounts
lent. As a result, the temptation to speculate is strong. Some Government
officials argue that negative interest rates are needed to encourage
fixed investment in the rural sector. Wiile low-cost money would haturally
be preferred by borrowers, the fact is that unrealistically low interest
rates could not attract enough funds into long-term lending. A large
share of agricultural investment is actually being financed through land
rentals, profit-sharing contracts and loans by individuals repayable in
kind, providing investors with reasonable protection against the risk of
price escalation.
III. Banks Participating in the Project
23.       Banks desiring to participate in the Project would be authorized
by the Central Bank on the basis of the following criteria as a minimum:
(a) experience in agricultural credit; (b) quality of bank officers and
efficiency of administration; (c) the ability to handle the additional
lending operations under the Project; (d) good financial condition;
(e) record of stable earnings; (f) number of bank offices available in
the Project area; and (g) the facility of communication among bank offices.
24.       The Banco do Brasil, which traditionally has been an instrument of
national policy and has the biggest experience in agricultural credit in
the country, would participate in the Project. Other banks which have
expressed desire to participate in the Project are: Banco Agricola
Mercantil, Banco America do Sul, Banco Brasileiro de Descontos, Banco do
Estado de Goias, Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo, Banco do Estado do Rio
Grande do Sul, Banco Itau Sul Americano, Banco de Minas Gerais, and Banco
Mineiro do Producao. A summary of their financial conditions as of June
30, 1966 and the results of their operations for the first six months
of 1966 are attached (Appendix 3-2). All these banks have adequate number
of branches in the Project area, with the Banco Brazil alone having more
than 100 offices.



CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL
ORGANIZATION CHART
NATIONAL MONETARY COUNCIL
CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
PRESIDENT                   DIRECTOR                     DIRECTOR                    DIRECTOR
ECONOMCS DEPRTMENTDEPARTMENT OF RURAL               DEPARTMENT OF     1DIN1T
I  h  EC:ONOMICS DEPARTMENT  JAND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT      EXCHANGE SUPERVISION              ATIVE DEPARTMENT
- DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC DEST 1      CURRENCY DEPARTMENT            DEPARTMENT OF    1         LEGAL DEPARTMENT
_ _ _ _ _ _ J  _   _  _   _   _   _          ~~~~~~~~~~~E.XCHANGE OPERATIONS  j ___
j  DEPARTMENT OF SUPERVISION                      1 i         DEPARTMENT OF
OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS      BANK OPERATIONS          REGISTRATION AND SUPERVISION 
______ _____ _____ _____ __   __ _____ _____ _____ _____   -  RE OF   FOREIGN   CAPITAL
-     CAPITAL MARKET DEPARTMENT
-2
IApril, 1967                                                                                                       (2R)IBRD-3353 _



BRAZIL LIVESTOCK DEVELOYMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL POSITION/ AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS-/
OF PARTICIPATING BANKSJ/
(Amounts in Billions of Cruseiro)
Participating Banks
de Estado de       Federal
Agricola         America        Brailiro       do Estado      do Estado do     Rio Grande       Itan Sul        de Minas      M1ineiro de
Mercantil         do Sul        Descontos      de Goias        Sao Paulo         do Sul        Americano         Gerais         Producao
A. Resourcesl/
Loans and Other Earning Assets . . . .     46.3            36.2           213.4            9.8            293.5           92.5             89.9            77.8            86.4
Cash Assets .20.9                                          16.5           109.4            4.7             67.8           28.8             36.6            22.2            32.6
Other Assets .16.1                                          6.4            51.6            3.8 41.2                        9-9             20.5            23.6            32.5
Total Resources . . . . . . ....        83.3            59.1           37h.4           18.3            402.5          131.2      _     147.0           123.6     15       I
B. Liabilities and Net Worthl/
Deposits and Other Liabilities . . . .     71.1            51.7           325.5           16.8            3.5.o          119.8            129.3          U110.0           136.0
Net Worth:
Capital .9.0                                             2.6            20.0            1.0             25.0            5.0             10.0             5.1             8.0
Surplus and Reserves .3.2                                4.8            28.9            0.5             32.5            6.4        7.      7             8.5             7.5
Total Liabilities and Net Worth . .     83.3            59.1              4            18.3             02.5          131.2            1417.0          123.6           151.5
C. Incone and Expenses.2
Income .............. . .                  13.4            14.6            61.2            3.0             80.4           29.6             25.6            19.6            30.0
Less: Expenses -
Interest on Borrowed Money  . . .        2.2             1.2             2.8            0.2              5.0            2.2              2.0             2.2             3.2
Administrative & Other Expenses .        9.2             8.8            33.6            2.2             1.6.6          21.8             l4.8            14.4            20.6
BDnuses and Gratifications               0.4            1.2              4.4             -               3.0               _             2.0             1.0             4.4
Total Expenses .. . ......           11.8            11.2            40.8            2.4             54.6           24.0             18.8            17.6            28.2
Net Income .  . . .                      1.6             3.4            20.4           o0.6              58               6              6.8             2.0             1.8
D. Ratio of Ads. & Other Expenses to Loans
and Other Earning Aesets2/ .19.9%                          24.3%           15.7%          22.4%            15.9%          23.6%            16.5%           18.5%           23.8%
E. Ratio of Income to Loans and Other
Earning Assets .28.9%                                4      0.3%           28.7%          30.6%            27.4%          32.0%            28.5%           25.2%           34.7%
F. Ratio of Net Income to Loans and Other
Earning Assets ........ . . . .             3.5%            9.4%            9.6%           6.1%             8.8%           6.1%             7.6%            2.6%            2.1%
1/ As of June 30, 1966
2/ Computed annual figures on the basis of January 1 - June 30, 1966 data
21 Excepting Banco do Brasil
ANot a separate item in the published Balance Sheet
SOURCE: REVISTA BANCARIA BRASILEIRA



BRAZIL: LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
…--      NATIONAL     HONORARY     COMMISSION
I                                                                          I  ,  
I                                                                          I
l      ~~REGIONA L P>ROJ ECT                 RE610ONA L PROJECT                   REGION AL PRO JECT
REGIONAL  __OFFICE I                 REGIONAL     _     OFFICE I              IONOAR         OFFICE m
HONOREIONLRROJCTHEGONARPRJETYFHORGINALPROEC
COMMISSION I       (RIO GRANDE       COMMISSION I    (MATO GROS.SO, NORTH  COMMISSION m    (GOIAS AND MINAS
DO SUL)                        PARANA, AND SAO PAULO)                      GERAIS)
Indicate direct line of authority.
Indicoae advisory function of Regional Honorary Commissions.
_)Z
m
(R)IBRD-3341 -x



Aw F-
Page 2
A. National Honorary Commission
1. Membership
a. Minister of Agriculture, Chairman
b. Minister of Planning and General Coordination
c. President, Central Bank of Brazil
d. President, Banco do Brasil
e. One (1) Representative each from regions covered by
the Project
2. Duties and Responsibilities
a. Set over-all policies for Project;
b. Enter into any legal contract for and in behalf of the Project;
c. Appoint, in agreement with the World Bank, the Regional
Project Directors; or enter into contract with any
organization for the management of the Project under terms
and conditions approved by the World Bank;
d. Appoint, promote, or remove all Project technicians, only
upon the recommendation of the Regional Project Director
concerned;
e. Appoint all other employees;
f.  Delegate powers and duties to the Regional Project Directors,
including the powyer to make disbursements in amoumts
conducive to efficiency;
g. Liaise with other bodies regarding matters pert>;ning
to the Project:
h.  Publish the index of loan adjustment as submitted
by the Getulio Vargas Foundation; and
i. Maintain necessary administrative, accounting, and
statistical machinery.
B. Regional Project Offices
1. Staff:
a. Regional Project Directors
b. Technical staff
c. Administrative and accounting staff
d. Others
2.  Duties and Responsibilities of Regional Project Directors:
a.  Administer Regional Project Office;
b. Guide and direct preparation of farm plans and
supervision of farm projects;



AMPElX 4
Page 3
c. Approve farm plans and projects;
d. Recommend policies and procedures for adoption by
National Honorary Commission;
e. Prepare budget in consultation with Regional Honorary
Commission;
f. Coordinate research undertakings with needs of Project;
g.  Consult with Regional Honorary Commission on matters
pertaining to the Project as may be necessary; and
h. Exercise all powers delegated to it by the National
Honorary Commission.
C. Regional Honorary Commissions
1. Membership
a. One (1) representative of the Department of Agriculture
of each State involved in the Regional Project
b. One (1) representative of the Banco do Brasil, S.A.
c. One (1) representative of other banks participating
in the Regional Project
d. One (1) representative of livestock producers of
each State involved in the Regional Project
2. Duties and Responsibilities
a. To advise the National Honorary Commission on all
matters pertaining to the Regional Project
concerned; and
b. To advise the Regional Project Director concerned.



BRAZIL LIVESTOCK EEVELOMMI PimDmWT
SUMAr oF 0SUTDTE    CF ONl-PARIIm I3VEWP T cosTs
(Amots in Niflions of l.S.Doflars)
Region I      Tot0  l       son IIn- 650 Farm        Reon III    40D Farm       Total - 1.800 Farms       Currency Requirenent
T                  ~~~~~Total                  Total                     Total       Foreign        Local
Unit        Qusntit       Cost         Quantity      Coat        Quntity       :;oet        Quantity      Cost        Exchange      Currency
a. Land Clearance, including soil
preparation, ploughing, etc       *  Ha.                                    60,000       2.100        80,000        2.200       140,000       h.30D         .215   I,.085
b. Pasture Hatablishment . . .  .  .  .  .  .   .  Ra.  225,000     15.750        2ho,o0o       6.120       170,000       3.565       635,000       25.535        7.600       17.935
c. Pasture Maintenance . .    ...... .     .  Ha.      225,000       3.600       24o,0uo        .690        170,000       .A55        635,000        h.745       l.1A24        3.321
d. Fencing .....        .... . .  .  .  .  ..  Km.      10,500       h.200        13,4oD        h1.58         9,100       2.365        33,000       10.723        i.6ho        9.115
a. Water Facilities, including dame,
windmills, tank., pipes,
bores, etc.  . . .  .  .  ...  .  .u. .   .  Ds     750)                      838)                       370)                     1,958)
Othera          750)      2.100           738)       2.070           350)      1.010          1,838)      5.180         .259         b.921
f. Farm Machinery .........               Tractors.        250)                      155)                        85)           hso)
Others        2,250)      3.900           550)       1.765           316)      0.970          3,116)      6.635        .A15          6.220
g. House, Equipment Shed, etc.             Nuwber         -           -              530        0.760           328       o.l30           858        1.190         -           1.190
h. Trench Silo ..... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . Numober  750    0.150          -            -             -           -              750        0.150         -            .150
i. Corral ................ . Number                       -           -              200        0.360           150       0.305           350        o.665         -             .665
J. Livestock .... .      .  .  .   . .     Heads          -           -           22.750        3.600         8.750       1.870        31.500        5.1.70        -           5.A70
TOTAL                                 29.700                    21.623                     13.270                    64.593        11.521       53.072
Adds Approximtely 5% contingency to
cover inflationary increases not
compensated in the Cr/$ value . .                           1.485                     1.o81                     0.663                      3.229        0.576         2.653
TOTAL                                 31.185                    22.7a4                     13.933                    67.822        12.097       55.725
Adds Unallocated Costew contingency
of approximately 10% ...... .                               3.165                     2.276                     1.397                      6.838        1.213         5.625
O1W4D TOTAL                                 34.35o                    2h.980                     15.330                    7h.660       13.310        a1.350
Relationship to Total Cost                                       h6.0%                      33.5%                    20 *,S                     loo.o%        17.8%         82.2S



BRAZIL LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
T;TJAL 3STIMATED COSTS OF TECHNICAL SSltVlCSS
(In Thousands of U.S. Dollars)
Ttl    Currency Requires,ent
Total       -F--r7eg.       iJ7
1st Year      2nd Year       3rd Year      4th Tear      5th Tear      6th Year       Cost          Exchange      Curre.cy
A. OPERAT1N'; COs'l'S
1. Salaries
a. Regional Project I ................ ..                 .             71.6         113.8           174.0         183.5        193.0         202.5          938.4          108.0         830.4
b. Regional Project II           ..                                     78.4         102.3           151.8         159.6        167.4         175.3          834.8          108.0         726.8
c. Regional Project III .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  -  55.2          77.3          113.1          118.7        124.2         129.7          61&.2          108.0         510.2
d. Office of the Nat. Honorary Commission      .        .31.3                         33.0      34.5                36.2         37.8          39.4           212.2            -          212.2
Total Salaries .236.5                                                      326.4          473.4          498.o        522.4         546.9        2,603.6          324.0       2,279.6
2. Per Diems aid Travel Expenses
a. Regional Project I .1....b                                                         56.3            91.3          86.3         89.6          91.0     4      58.9          17.2         441.7
b. Regional Project II.                                                 46.1          51.8           81.1           76.2         79.5          79.5          414.2           17.2         j97.0
c. Regional Project III ................... . .                         36.6          39.4            62.5          57.6         60.9          60.9          317.9           17.2         300.7
d. Office of the Nat. Honorary Conssio..on        . .                   12.3          12.3            12.3          12.3         12.3           2.3             3.             -           73.8
Total Per Diems and Travel Expenses .139.4                                 159.8           247.2         232.4        212.3         243.7        1,264.8           51.6       1,213.2
3. Research and Other Expenses
a.  Regional Project I.                                                  4.0          29.3            79.7          55.0          5.O           5.O          178.0          120.0          58.e
b.  Regional Project II .6.5                                                          56.8           107.1          57.4          7.7           8.0          2M3.5          160.0          83.5
c. Regional Project Ill.11 4.0                                                        29.3            79.7          55.0          5.0           5.0          178.0          120.0          58.C
d. Office of the Nat. Honorary Conmission .7.5                                       107.8           108.1           8.5          8.5             5           248.9         100.0         18d.9
Total Research and Other Expenses .22.0                                    223.2          374.6          175.9         26.2          26.5          848.           500. 0        3148.1
Total Operating Costs .397.9                                                                709.4         1095.?          906.3        790.9         817.1       41,716.8          875.6       3,8141.2
B. CAPITAL COSTS
1. Regional Project I .17.0                                                                    7.0           11.0           8.0          5.0            7.5           55.5           6.o           49.5
2. Regional Project II ..... . ...... ......... ....                           23.0           7.0            11.0           8.0          5.0           7.5            61.5           9.6          51.9
3. Regional Project IIl ... . ...... ........ ... .. 4                         14.0           4.o             8.0           5.5          2.5           5.0            39.0           6.o          33.0
4. Office of the Nat. Honorary Commission .11.0                                               0.5             0.5           3.0           -             -             15.0           2.4          12.6
Total Capital Costs .65.o                                                                     18.5           302.5                      12.5           20.0          171.0          24.0         147.0
C. TOTAL COST OF TECHNICAL SERVICZS (A * B)
1. Regionial Project I .137.0                                                                206.4          356.o         332.8        292.6         306.0         1,630.8         251.2       1,379.6
2. Regional Project 11 .154.0                                                                217.9          351.0         301.2        259.6          270.3        1,554.0         294.8       1,259.2
3. Regional Project III .109.8                                                              150.0           263.3         236.8        192.6          200.6        1,153.1         251.2         901.9
h. Office of the Nat. Honorary Conmission    . ...........................:62.1              153.6          155.1;         6o.o         58.6           60.2          549.9         102.4         417.5
Total Costs of Technical Services (A    B) B.62.9                                           727.9         1,125.7         93J.8        803.4          837.1        4,887.8     o    99.6       3,988.2
Add:   Aproximately 10% contingency to cover possiule
under-estimates in quantity and per unit cost of items.      .    .   .  16.3          73.0           112.6          93.1         80.3           83.7          189.0          90.0          399.C
,rand Total.. .                                        .        .     ..      509.2          0)0.9        1,238.3       1,023.9        883.7          920.8        5,376.8         <69.6       b.3d7.2
D.  RELATIn'NSHIP rc ThTAL COSTS  . . . ..   .. ....... ..........                     9.fvt         14.0%          23.0>        1i9.ol     10.8'             17.1%         100.0i          id.4,1        dl.6:



AlUEZ
BRAZIL-LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research Requirements
1.        In this Project,a major part of the investments for on-farm
development, including the provision of technical services, involves the
applicaticn of improved farming methods likely to increase output and-
efficiency.While the proposed on-farm investments and projected productivity
increases only reflect knowledge and techniques already used by progressive
Brazilian farmers, experience in other countries suggests that new technical
problems requiring investigation are likely to arise in the course of Pro-
ject implementation. An allowance has therefore been included in the cost
of the technical services for the purpose of carrying out field investiga-
tions and trials. Each Project Director would have discretion
for the use of such funds for research likely to further Project objectives
in his Region. This brief note outlines possible avenues for fruitful
research related to Project needs.
2.        In Regional Project I, trials on different methods of pasture
establishment, (conventional method of seed bed preparation, Vy., sod-
seeding, vs. oversowing of existing native pastures)miaght help lower the
unit cost of this operation. Trials of this type in Uruguay have paid
handsome dividends. Local investigations, of a preliminary nature,
indicate that trace element deficiencies occur in parts of Rio Grande do
Sul. These investigations should be extended: simple field trials on
Project farms could lead to substantial increases in both plant and animal
production. No information is available on optimal calving dates and
weaning times, despite the highly seasonal nature of pasture growth in
this region: field trials on which records are kept of losses and growth
rates of calves born at different times of the year, together with the
subsequent breeding performance of their dams, are likely to lead to improved
methods of stock management, permitting a much closer fit between feed
requirements and pasture growth than-exists at present.
3.        In parts of Central Brazil, the stock carrying capacity of farms
where cultivated grasses were establ.ished following removal of the forest
cover, has progressively decreased over a period of 15 to 20 years, to
about one-third of the original level. The introduction of-suitable tropical
legumes might reverse this process, through nitrogen-fixation. In fact,
throughout the area of Regional Projects !I and III, tropical legumes are
likely to play and increasing role in building soil fertility, in improv-
ing feed quality particularly during the dry season, and in improvinng
pasture yields and livestock production.   A number of improved species of
tropical legumes, and even strains within species, are now available, par-
ticularly from Australia. However, these legumes vary markedly in their
ability to thrive and persist in different soil and climatic environments.
Many of them are also highly selective in the particular strain of rhizo-
bia, or root nodule bacteria, necessary to convert nitrogen in the air to
forms the plants. can usej , aend-so_prcvide the basis of soil fertility im-
provement. Trials will be necessary to determin.- the type of legume and



ANNEX 7
Page 2
rhizobium combination best suited to the different environments within the
Project area. For this purpose existing national research centers, might
have to establish facilities for the production of rhizobium cultures.
4.        In the whole Project area, little information is available on
the nutrient status of the different soil types, yet specific mineral
deficiencies could seriously, limit both pasture and livestock production.
The onset of rains in the early summer months of November-December invariably
results in a prolific growth of pasture, a proportion of which is invariably
wasted. Investigations on the possibility of preserving this surplus feed,
preferably as silage, could help alleviate feed shortage in the dry winter
period. Trials on optimum calving dates and weaning times already referred
to might also have important repercussions on methods of stock management.



AT-E. 8
Page 1
BRAZIL - LIVESTOCK DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Proposed Relending Terms
I. OBJECTIVES
1.        Inflation in Brazil averaged 18-20 percent annually in the
'early fifties, 20-25 per cent annually during the late fifties and about
60 per cent annually in the early sixties. Since 1964, there has been
some progress towards monetary stability. From a high of 90-100 per cent
annual inflation rate in 1963-64, inflation has decelerated to about
ho-50 per cent in 1965-66. Further corrective steps must be waken by the
Government which will take office in April 1967. Yet, it cannot be
expected that a severe inflationary process such as experienced by Brazil
for the past twenty years will be halted overnight. For this reason,
special relending terms had to be designed for the Project taking account no"
only of the technical requirements of on-farm investment but also of
Brazil's inflationary climate.
2.        Specifically the relending terms proposed for the Project have
been designed:
(a) to fit the repayment burden of farm loans to the slow-
yielding nature of livestock investment;
(b) to charge interest at a positive rate, in real terms,
whatever the future course of inflation;
(c) to assure to a great degree acceptance of terms by
commercial fa;mers. This calls for inducements during
the early years of farm development;
(d) to provide a satisfactory margin to participating banks
in order to assure their active participation in the
Project.
3.        The formula proposed was worked out with Central Bank officials
and discussed at great length with farmers' representatives-and banikers.
Account was taken off lending practices and terms now existing in Brazil.
Departure from these was limited to the minimum consistent with the above
objectives.



AiT1MX 8
Page 2
II. DETAILED FEATURES
4.        A numerical example illustrating the computations implied by
the formula appears in Appendix 8-1. The formula has the following features:
(a) Loan duration: 9-12 years, including 3 to 4 years of
grace for amortization of principal;
(b)  Interest rate:  14 per cent over the life of the loan,
calculated on outstanding loan principal adjusted;
(c) Rediscount rate: 7 per cent;
(d) Loan Adjustment:
(i)  During grace period - interest ct3culated on the
basis of unadjusted loan balance. ;
(ii)  During amortization period - both principal repayment
and interest calculated on the basis of adjusted
loan balance;
(iii)  Principal and interest payments made annually, on
the anniversary date of loan cormitmentl/. Amounts
due would be calculated by applying the current
loan adjustment index to the amounts wlich would
be due, had thiere been no adjustment. The loan
adjustment index would be related to the producer
price index, measured from the year each loan is
made. For the base year the producer price index
would be 100. The loan adjustment index would equal
the producer price index during the same year less
the following amounts:
Year 1 - 10;
Year 2 - 20;
Year 3 - 30;
Year 4 and ensuring years - 40
In no case, however, would the adjusted loan balance
be less than the unadjusted balance during the same
year. This means that the loan adjustment index
could never fall below 100.
1/  This implies no loan adjustment during the grace period insofar
as debt service is concerned. For prepayment purposes, loan
balances would be adjusted from year to year both during and after
the grace period.
2/ A participating farmer would normally obtain four separate loans
under the Project, one for each year of farm plan execution.
Interest would be paid on Jume 30 and December 31 of every year,
as is now the practice in Brazil.



AlNDEx 8
Page 3
(iv) Amounts derived from loan adjustment - to the
credit of the Government, to take care of the
exchange risk arising out of the Bank loan and
to help defray the cost of technical services.
5.        The loan adjustment index wiould be defined and measured separately
for Central Brazil and Rio Grande do Sul. In the former region, where
beef would be the major output of Project farms, the index would be made
up of fat cattle prices.  In the latter region, the index would be composite,
including prices of both beef cattle and wool. Prices would be measured
each year, as an average of prices obtaining during the high-supply months.
The Getulio Vargas Foundation, an autonomous economic research agency of
recognized integrity and competence, would be entrusted with sampling,
data collection, and publishing of the index. The index would be issued
annually in July. It would be used for adjustments of amounts dae in the
twelve months period following the publication of the indexi./.
6.        In the case of default or partial payment by a borrower on a
loan rediscounted with the Central Bank, the participating bank shall
pay to the Central Bank the entire amount of the unadjusted balance of
the loan due or remaining as the case may be. Any amount due on account
of loan adjustment, as described in Paras. 4 and 5 above, shall be
remitted to the Central Bank, together with penalties if and when payment
is received from the borrower or from the liquidation of the collaterals
and/or guarantees securing the loan. Full payment includes all amounts
due on the loan, inclusive of loan adjustment. When full paym.ent is not
met by a borrower this should be reported by the participating bank
to the Central Bank within a month. All costs incurred in collecting
amounts in arrears from a borrower would be shared by the participating
bank and the Central Bank in the proportion of the amounts ultimately due
to the two institutions.
III. JUSTIFICATION
7.        Loan duration of 9-12 years including 3 to 4 years grace takes
into account the nature of on-farm investments. The Project would stress
pasture improvement, subdivisional fencing, expanded water facilities,
and better management practices, all of which would only yield benefits
to the farmer after some time. The proposed loan maturity features are
in line with those of similar Bank livestock development projects in
other countries.
8.        The interest rate was set at 14 per cent to cover the rediscount
rate of the Central Bank of 7 per cent (see Para. 13), and provide the
1/ A linear interpolation would be made after publication of
the index to determine the amounts due during each month of
the preceding year. This would be used to adjust fairmer's
loan balances in case of partial or total prepayment of a loan.



ANNEX 8
Pago 4
participating banks with a gross margin of 7 per cent on the unadjusted
loan balance. This is the margin allowed Brazilian banks by present
regulations.
9.        Loan adjustment is a relatively new thing to Brazilian
borrowers. To induce farmers' participation in the Project, it was thought
best that no additional financial burden, besides regular interest, be
imposed on the farmer durinrg the grace period, when the farmer is not
receiving returns from his investment.
10.       After the grace period, when the farmer begins to realize returns
from his investment, his loan would be adjusted for all increases in the
applicable adjustment index beyond a floor calculated according to
Para. 4(d) (iii), corresponding to a maximum exemption of 40 points above
the price level obtaining at the time the loan is made. This would achieve
the major objective of loan adjustment: to avoid excessive erosion of
loan capital through inflation. At the same time, it would leave scope
for some adjustment in prices without changing the debt burden. Full
loan adjustment while theoretically appropriate would probably be
unattractive to borrowJers and hamper livestock development.
11.       Loan adjustment would be based on a cattle price index
(cattle-wool index in Rio Grande do Sul). Such an index would reflect
the profitability of the type of farming to which the Project is geared.
It wou.d be simple to measure and check, it would be easily uiadrstood
by farmers, and it would provide a fairly good measure of inflation since
the Government would commit itself to a policy of free trade and uncontrolled
prices in the livestock field.
12.       Under a wide range of possible inflation patterns, the rediscount
rate of 7 per cent, together with the proceeds from loan adjustment would
provide sufficient revenue to the Central Bank:
(a) to service the Bank loan, (assuming a 6 per cent interest
rate), and
(b) to recover the full cost of technical services.
13.       If the rate of inflation does not increase, real interest borae
by the farmer under the Project would be no less than 7 per cent. The
profitable nature of proposed investments, the liberal repayment terms,
the related provision of technical services, and the comprehensive nature
of financing offered (medium and loing-term funds for complete farm
development plans not availab'e in Brazil at the present time) are likely
to make participation in the Project attractive to comTmercial fanmers
If inflation were higher than projected, the lending rate would stil; be
positive, in real terms.



BRAZIL - LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Debt Service of Typical Loan2-
(Amount:   1,000; Duration:     12 years; Grace Period:      4 years; Interest:     14%)
1.   Assumptions                                            1           2           3          4           5          6           7           8          9            10          11         12
Inflation.                                            hO         30          20         10           5           5          5           5          5           5           5          5
Price Index.                                        140         12         21d         240         252        265         278        292         307         322        338         355
Loan Adjustment Index .130                                      162        188         200         212        225         238        252         267         282        298         315
2. Loan Account, Without Correction
Original Amount, Nominal Terms .1,000                        1,000       1,000       1,000      1,000       1,000      1,000       1,000       1,000      1,000       1,000       1,090
Less Repayments, Nominal Terms .-                              -          -           -            125        250         375         500        625         750         875      100,
Outstanding Amount, Noriinal Terms..               1,                   000 1,000 10 875 75                                - 7       3         -                      -I           - 
Outstanding Amount, Real Terms .715                             550        460         41.6        396        284         224        171         122          79          38       _
3. Debt Service, Without Correction
Principal, Nominal Terms ...............           -          -           -           -            125        125         125        125         125         125        125         125
Interest, Nominal Terms         r         s .1o                140         140         140         140        122         105         87          70          53         35          18
-TO          1h    -=       0                -z2         -76        -~775       --         --M 5        -M         --I 16       -U7i
Principal, Real Terms ..................                      -           -           -             50         47          45     4     3         41          39         37          35
Interest, Real Terms .100                                        77         64          58          56         46          38          30         23          16         10           5
I-T5-    ---77          c410~~55            --T56          93-§        b3~S-       ( 73   -7W         -- 55       --77       --M
h. Debt Service, With Correction-/
Principal, Nominal Terms .-                                   -           -           -           265         281         297        315         324         352        373         394
Interest, Nominal Terms .140                                    14.0       140         1140        297        275         250        219         187         149        104          57
--lo          140      --W                       52 --I6  5M7                    -54         --SIT      -           -w-7        --M
Principal, Real Termsm.            .-                         -           -           -           105         106         107        108         109         109        110         in1
Interest, Real Terms .100                                        77          64         58         118        104          90          75         61          46          31         16
Preset Vaue a   8 pe   cen.:3/-TO-6              ---77          64-       53T       --My       --1         -"T§        --T"       --T7        --55          141      --M7
Present Value at 8 per cent!.                         93         66         51          43        152         132         u5          98          85          71         60          50
5. Distribution (in real terms)
Participating banks.                                  50         38         32          29          28         23          19         15          12           8           5          3
Central Bank .50                                                 39          32         29         195        187         178         168        158         147        136         124
100        77        -55     2-7            -23 210?                  197 1U3             --T       I55       N    iI     7     M
1/   No monetary correction during grace period.         Principal adjusted according to index
diuring amorti7.ation period.
2/ Obtained by applying thr: loan adjustment index to the debt service without correction.
3/   This shows that the real interest pait by the farmer is about 8 per cent per annum:
the cash flow totals up to 1,016, roughly the original loan amount.
NOT':   The calculation asstuers that the nroducer price index varies in line with the overall
inflation.    llence, any amount expressed in real terms is calculated by dividing the corresponding
nominal amount by the price index. The price index is assum-d to be 100 at the beginning of year 1.



BRAZIL - LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Statement of Receipts and Disbursements
(U.S.$ 000) eqouivalent)
1        2         3        4        5        6         7        8        9        10        11       12       13        14      15        16        17       18       19        20
LOAN FUND STATEMERr
Cash Inflow
Loan from I9RD                             1,776    5,545   11,827   11,893     7,841    1,118     -         -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -
Government Contribution                      912    3,090    6,735     6,838    4,446      395               -        -        -             -             -         -        -        -         -        -        -        -
Collections from Participating BanksA/      -         122      507    1,296     1,944    2,590    3,679    6,420     9,161   10,709   10,579     9,703    9,116    8,188    6,610     h,025    1,612       1l1
Government AdvanceY/                         250      223      293       282      427       72      854      -        -        -         -        -        _        _         _        _         _        _        _
_,3 _w              _        2030 146' _I7 _;5 _S2 7; !X7 WIsr! 57C 7;I- bs                                                               U 6s 1,612 ~I3                 - 
Cast, Outflow
Rediscounts by Participating Banks
under ProjecL                             2,133    8,235   17,943    18,219   11,935    1,053     -        -         -        _         _        _        _        _         _        _         _        _
Cormitme.nt f"e on IBRD loan_                223      138      111       67        26        3
Princial and Interest on IbRD loanr/         27      190      617    1,327     1,980    2,350    4,263    h,263     b,263    h,263    4,263     h.263    4,263    4,263    h,263     4,263    4,263    4,263     b,263    4,263
Transfer to Technical Services Fund
Prom IBRD Loan                      5/     255      4001     619      512       442      460     -        -         -        -         -        -        -        -        -         -        -         -        -        -
From Participating Bank Collections-     -           17       72       184      275      309      270      241       667      182       148      117       87       60        36       17        6         1
Repayment of Government Advance             -        -        -         -        -        -        -        1 916      a85
-     ~   H9D0     !:       20,30     !J      14T65      ;        b   ^    35      xb,5      bTT       h, 80      %31 4            h323799  6,2N    bt6,269   b7*263 
Annual Cash Surplus or Deficit ( )          -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -        3 746    6 264    6 168     5 363    4 766    3 865     2 311      255   (2,657)   (h 133)  (4,263) (14263)
Cash Balance
Beginning of year                          -         -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -       3,746   10,010    16,178   21,561   26,307   30,172    32,393   32,738    30,081   25,948   21,685
Annual Cash Surplus or Deficit ( ),
as above                                   -.       -        -         -        -        --                         3 746    6 264    6168      5 363    4 766    3 865     2U         255    C267     ik133)    1,263)  023
End of year                                 -                                                                                                                                                  0 -  -  255 -  -  _) _OBI  2
TECHNICAL SERVICES FUND STATNEMfEN
Cash Inflow
Transfer from Loan Fund
From IBRD Loan                            255       boo      619      512       442      460              -
From Participating Banks Collections     -           17       72      18b       275      309      270      241       667      182       148      117       87       60        36       17        6         1
Oovernment Advance                           254      384      547       328      167      152     -         -
509 bDOl        1,23B                8I; UU4            77I 77    I        7       17 iF              117               6         0 w  3      7        Z6     _I -_
Cash Outflow
Technical Services Expenditures              509      801    1,238     1,024      884      921
Repayment of Governmeent Advance            -        -        -         -        -        -          270      241      667      182       148      117       87        60       36       17         6        1
Ol        1~         _3            1             _2                          _b      9   2   2IJi         f7   lt7      b       I   7      l     7        6    -T        _      _
1/ Debt service on individual farm loans according to assumptions of Annex 8. Exchange rate assumed to be revalued in line vith the projected inflationary trend.
2/ In addition, the Oovernment would advance the frunds needed to cover any lag between rediscounts and disbursements from the IBRD loan.
3/ 3/8 of I per cent. The fi rst year amount includes US$ 75,000 likely to he due during the six-month period preceding the starting date of the projection.                                                                         z
4/  20 year loan including   6B5 years grace. Six per cent interest.    Equal pavments after the grace period.
I/ One per cent of uoadjusted lmn balances, as per Annex 8, (loss a negligible amonunt for direct administrative expenses of the Central Bank in connection
with the Project)   plus US. 1,54,,OO  equi,alent from monr-tary correction, paid in year 9 -hen cash surplus available.



Brazil Livestock ProJect
ANALYSIS OF ESTIMATED CASH SURPLUS1/
(In Us$1000)
Collections                                Excess of Col-                                Estimated
from Partici-         RepaymentsŽy          lections over             Total            Government Funds
Year        pating Banks2.           to  Bank          Repayts. to Bank        Cash  Surplus        in Cash  Surplus
(Bank Loan account only)                          (cumulative)          (cumulative)           (cumulative)
6               190                                          190
7               833                  1,763                  (740)
8             2,234                  1,875                  (381)                  -
9             3,657                  1,987                 1,289                 3,746                  2,h57
10              ,582                  2,108                 3,763                10,010                  6,247
11             4t,664                 2,234                 6,193                16,178                  9,985
12             4,664                  2,369                 8,488                21,541                 13,053
13             4,664                  2,519                10,633                26,307                 15,674
14             4,474                  2,668                121.439               30,17?                 17,733
15             3,830                  2,831                13,h38                32,393                 18,955
16             2,429                  3,Oo4                12,863                32,738                 19,875
17             1,008                  3,190                10,681                30,081                 19,400
18                83                  3,381                 7,383                25,948                 18,565
19                                    3,587                 3,796                21,685                 17,889
20               _                    3,796                                      17,h22                 17,422
Totals         37,3i2                 37,312
1/  Funds for on-farm investments only                                                                               [
2/ Asswned at 4 years of grace and 8 years of amortization
3/  Loan for on-farm inivestments or ;37.312 M x amortizations per Schedule 1 of Loan Agreement
Total Bank loan           oa0.0 O



BIAZIL - LIVESTOCK DSYEWPHzThTP9735CT
HERDW WMEWVE-ST09 AND. E-URN CALCIIIATION3S
A. Fan Model. I (Rio0 Gnode do So])
eslpemst        1       2       3       1.       5       6       7        H       9       10       11      1i       13      ib       15      LA      17       18      19      is
I. B- HF: PlODPCTIOS
Gred _e  C     h .0       h4s00       1.00         1.o 42  1.06     1.1!    4.35    1.65     Sd.     51.8    S59       o8      .8 50     5      1.      56      512     19        1       3
He11,                 20           20     20      20      20       20      21       ii      23       25      27      28      2S       2,.     25       27      27       26      25      26       27
decollne             200          2W     200     MO      226      262     iH0      310     326      31.8    378      .15    1.1      382     361.     378     1.06     1.02    381.    372      384.
Femal              100          1CC    100     105     113      12e6    110      165     163     171.     189     205     208      1911    182      189     203      is1     192     186      192
Hale               150          100    100     100     113      12'     ito     ISS      163     171.     189     205     208      191     182      189     203      201     1 M     186,     192
Seller               i17.         171.   171.    179     181     1LV.     223      763     282     301.     320     31      377      395     381      355     355      376     386     375      361
I-2 rar             92           92     92      92      93      106     120     1 36     153     158      169     183     199      202     IHS      176     181.    1917     195     186      180
2-3 y-se            82           Hi    Hi       H7      88       90     103      117     131     11.6    1S3      161.    17H      193     196      179     171     178      191     189      lHi
st-e-                330          330    330     333     303      iHi     28H      253     782      301.    322     31.      377     395     381      3S5     355      375     386     375      361
1-2 y-e9t                        92    92       92      93      106     120      136     151     158      169     183     199      202     186      176     181.    197      196     186      180
2-3 year            82           82    Hi       87      88       90     103      117     131     11.6     153     169.    178      193     196      179     lfl      178     191     189      181
3-h Y-ar            79           79    79       78      HI.      85      65                                -       -        -       -            -       -        -       -
h-I                 77e          771  .33      J6      32!       -        -              -         -       -        -     -        -. --                                                    ---M
TOTAL              1. 121      i.ii1   1.121   Lii     14       1.155   1.226    1.273   1 378   1.1.85   1.597   1  6    1.703    1.681   1.656    1.656   1.679    1,690)  1.677   1.660    1.661
Asioa1 Helts           856         960     966     866     862      833     865      86      91.5  1,022    1,099   1,1%6   1,156   1,156    1.166    1,156   1,156    1,156   1,166   1,156    1,1566
FHh,Usg c,se          20           20     20      18      16      11.      12       13      lb.     15       16      17      16       15      15       16      16       15      15      15       16
Ac.. llog                          16     16      11       12      10,      H       15      10      10       12      12      12       12      10       12      12       17      12      12       12
Femle                       8     H              7       6        6       h.       6       5        5       6       6       6        6       6        6       6        6       6       6        6
Hale         H           H~~~           ~   ~   ~    ~   ~   ~ 8  7  6  6  1.  6   5       6       6        6       6       6        5       6        6       6       6        6       6
Setters          H~          ~~~        ~ 7  8  7     7       6       6l       6       8        8       H       8       10      10      HO        9       9       10      15       10       9
1-iran                      1.~~~5  5       1.     1.               1.       1.       5       6        6       6       6       6        6        6       6       6        6       6        5
2- y ..rs            3            3      3       3        3       2       2        2       3       3I       3       3       h.      1.       1.               3        h.      1       h.       h
steen                 1            12     12      10       10       8        7       6       H        8       8       8      10       10      10        9       9       10      10      10        9
I-2 Yeare            5            6              1.      1.      1.       1.      1.       5       5        5       5       6        6       6        .5      6        6       6       6I       6
2-3 Yeer             3            3     3        3       3        2       2        2       3       3        3               1.      1.      1.       1.       3       1.      1.       1.      1.
3-h y-a              2            2      2       2        2       2       1        -      -         -       -      -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -
1.-5 y-r             2            2      2       1        1       -       -        -      -         -       -      -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -
5-6 y-ar                          1      -       -        -       -      -         -      -         -       -      -       -         -      -         -       -        -       -        -       -
TIDTIL                57           56     57      1.9     1.6      f                )_      1       41       165      6      1.0      1.7     1.5     1.7      1.6     1.8      1.7     1.8      1.6
CalI Ces              51.          51.   51       60      60       61      62      65       70      76       82     129     105       73      76      86      105       93      71.     77       82
CellHello              h            h     1.      1.       1.               1.      1.       5       5        5       6       5        5       6        5       5        5       5       5        5
CsllHeifers            h.          1.      .       h.      1.               5        6       7       7        8       a       9       10      10        9       9        9      10       9        9
Serpiso Heif.e.                                                                                              38      53      71.      72      56       70      63      7?.      72      61.      72.
Stoor                 75           75    iS      113     120      105     166     111.     129     11.3     150     161     171.     169     192      176     168      175     187     186      177
Hells                   .           I.    1.       1        5       5       5        6       7        7       6       .       1.       6       7        5       1.       5       6       6        5
Teclhalsal CseffIcleoto
WeaslsgittmS)           S           50     55       66      63      69       75      75       75      75      75       75      75      76       76      75       75      75       75      76      76
Xortality Sates (5)
Cews                   6            5      5       1.      1.       3       3        3       3       3        3       3       3        3       3        3       3        3       3       3        3
Hslls                  2            2      2       2       1        1       1        1       1        1       1       1       1        1       1        1       1        1       1       1        1
Neasllogs     H            H~~       ~   ~    ~~      ~~ 8  7  5  h.  3     3       3        3       3       3       3        3        3       3       3        3       3        3'      3
1-2ron5                             5     5        4       1.       3       3        3       3       3        3       3       1        3       3        3       3        3       3       3        3
2-3rr-                 4.          1.     4        3       3        2       2        2       2       7        2       7       2        2       2        2       2        2       2       2        2
3-t Y.-r               3            3      3       3       2        2       2        2       2       2        2       2       2        7       2        2       2        2       2       2        2
4t-5y-ar               2            2      2       2        1       1       1        1       1       1        1       1       1        1       1        1       1        1       5       1        1
Am at late (Yea)         5.d          S.D    S.D     1..5    1..      3.5     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0
Cull Cew           4..320.     4120b.3    20ji.  1.,80o.  MO,O. 1.,H8o.  1.960.  5.7W0.  5600W. 6,090o.  6,560. 10. 320.  8,00W.   5,84o.  6,080.   6,800.  8,1.00.  7,1.1..  5,920.  6.160.  6.560.
Os11 Halls           1.50.        boo.   1.00.   1.00.   1.00.    1.oo.   1.0D.    lito.   600.   -SW0.     600.    600.    SW.      SW0.    SW0.     SW.     500.     S0.     50D.    S0.      SW0.
Cs11ll HAtrs         260          260.   260.    260.    26o.     260.    325.     390.    1.65.   1.55.    52o.    520.    585.     65o.    650.     585.    586.     586.    650.    585.     585.
lerplse IleAtf-       -                           -        -       -        .       -       -       -     2,1.0.  3.115.  1.,H10.  4.680.  3,575.   4.,55o. 1.095. 1.810.    1..685.  1..160.  4.,68o.
Steer              9,000.       9,000. 9,070. 13,560. 14.,1W. 12,600. 19.800. 13,680. i5,6Ho. 17,160. 18,0W0. 19.320. 20,890. 77,6910. 23,01.0. 21.120. 20,160. 25,0W. 22,11.. 22,2W0. 21,21O.0
Sells                61.0.        61.o.  61.0.   61.0.   8710.    807.    Has.     960.  1,120.  1,120.     960.    61.0.   *9.o.    960.  1,12o.     8DO.    64.0.   8W.      960.    960.     DOs.
IV-I 151.1S    13-310.      ]3,3t011,34.0  19,380. 19,060. 17, 3h0. 21.685   1H,710. 20,916. 23,075. 27.090. 31,665. 31.135    33,390. 32,725. 32,755. 33.100. 33,536. 3 3,7130. 32.61.5. 32,765.
I./ The follsiog farugte prisco ha"ree.o oss-d for all edelo-fot Steers,            H.S.$120t
-. ls  teers  0.46        eoU..90         al    egtt8gi             el   cl.985.7



A. Ta" o,Ndel'! (Cant.)
0.1I o,.on     1      . 2       3        I.       5        6        7        8        9       10       11       12       13       11,      15       14       17       18       19       20
II. 10UTTON All WOCL PRODUCTION
Sh.e. Stock
rmed.                   960       960    96D      960      995    1.030    1.095    1.190    1,330   1,1.85   1,660    1,860    2.000    2.000     2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,00    2,000    2,000
Coo log~ets             280      280     288      312      323      360      4.10     4.76     532     591.     661.     74.1     80       60000    800       800 Soo00 a               800      800      B00
le.the- 8ogzeta         288      288     288      312      323      360)     .10      1.76     532      591.    661.     71.1     800      a    800 800       80       800      000     800      B00      800
4ethere                 831.     863     885      902      91.0     975    1,030    1,118   1,166       882     562      1916      -        -O        -O       -                          -        -
1:_ ~ ~   ~   ~   3    30       30          ~ 30      30       32       33       36      1.0      1.5      50       56       60       60                         60 60 60 60       8        0        40I
TOIBL                2,1.00    2,1.29  2,1.51   2,516    2,611    2,756    2,978    3,296    3,600    3,600   3,600    3,600    3,660    3,660     3,660    3,600    3,660    3,660   3,660    3,660    3,660
A1.05,n1   Lat            1.80     1.86    1.90     503      522      551      596      659      7 20     720      720      720     720      732       737      737      732      797      712      732      732
~~~ao, ~~~~77.               77     77       67       70       62       66       60      .67       71.     83       93      00 100        100      100   o      100      100      100      100      100
ZeoHoggets               29        29      29       28      29       32       33       38       1.3     1.8       53       60      61.      61.        ,       61.     61.       61.      a,       61.     61
dethe, Hog0ts            2    29          2        2829              32       33       38       1.                3       60       6.       6.        6,       a,       61.     61.      91       96       41.
W.tlOr                   1.h2      43     1.1      1.5      1.       19       52       56       58      1..       28       10        -      -         -        -       ,                  -        -       -
lens               2         2       2        2        2        2        2        22  2                     3        3        3        3 
T0OTAL                  179       180    181      170      177      177      186      191.     213      216      220      226     231      231       231      231      231      231      232      231     231
Tran--tionu
Stock Soles
Cull SSW  8000015        30        30     30       30       32       36       1.1      66       52       57       60        -              .                           -            -        -        -
Cull la'ther- Hoggnt     30        30     30       30       32       36       1.i      1.6      52       57       60       68                        --                         -       -
Cull ilothera          158       196     168      171      180      188      196      212      222      168      338       37     --                          -                -        -        -
CullaZo                152       152     152      152      157      165      175      180      215      21.0     168     353      380      380       380      380      380     380      980      380      380
Cull '1~                  6         6       6        6       6        6        6        7        8        9        9       11      11       11        11       11       11       11       11      11       21
S.r-,.' da.Lh.r.         -         -       -        -       -             -            76      1.1.     597      551      765     736,     736       736      736      736      736     736      736      736
3-rP1uu  Coo 8o0gets                                                                                                       98     256      256       256      256      256      256     256      254      256
31t01. ,'rhOs-
6  8       8        0   ~   ~    ~~~~~ 9 i10  11       I3      is       16       l8       18       11.      lb.      1        lb       1L       11.      IL       lb.      IL,
Lo0'u  3001'         1,920     1,920   1,920    2,1.00    2,985   3,090    3,285    1.,165  6.655    5,198    5.810    6.51 0   7,00     7,000    7.00     7,000    7,000    7,000    7,000    7,000    7.000
L-obs 'looI            576       576     576      621.      808     900    1,025    1,1.8    1.596   1,732    1,997    2,2s2    2.1.00   2.1.00   2,.00    2,1.O    2.1.00   2,1.00   2,1.00   2.1.0    2,100
lta-,wool       2,085     2,158   2,213    2,706     3,760   3.900    1.,120   4,1.72   L.661.   3,528    2,26.8     781.     -        -        -                -        -        -        -        -
120       120     120      120       150     155      105Y     180      200      225      250      280     300      300      300      3DO      300      300      300      300      300
11 .;..Iu           1.13      1.20   1.25     523      -770      805      860   1.025    1,112    1,060    1.030      981      270      970      970     1970      970     '970      970     970      970
5,131.    5,191.  5,251.   6,373     8,1.3   8,850    9,1.55  11,270   12,227   11,751   11,330  10,787   10,670   00,670   10,670   10.670   10,670   10.670   10.670   10,670   10,6,70
iausg .ite (h)           f, 0      60     60       65,        65     70       75       80       80       80       80       80      80       80       80       80       80       80       80       80       80
Oses               ~    ~    ~   ~~      ~~8  8  8  1   7.        6      6        5        5        5       5        4        5        5        5        5        5        4        5        5       5
ftrr9stu                 10       10      10        9         9       9        8        0        8        8        8        8       8        8        8        8        8        8        8        0        8
WLah-,                    5         5       5        5         5      5        5        5        5        5        5        5       5         5       5        5        5        7        5        5        5
A..em                     5         5      5        5         5       5        5        5        5        5        5        5       5        5        5        5        5        6        5        5        5
Vueof Tr--ectlans
276       276     276      276       091     315      31.5     396     1.65     960      621.     702      672     6,72      672     67?      472      672      6;72     672      6,72
lIethe-.                186       201     216      225       252    276      300      31.      378      216      726       -       -        -                 -        -                 -        -
lao                      6         6       6        6         6       6        6        7        8       9        9       11       11       11       11       11       11       11       11       11      01
8000005                 300      300     3700     300r       9~20   360      1.10    81.0    2,752   3.55M5   3,3I55   1.6548   1.90     196       ,6      190      190       .6       .90    i    O.   ,.,60)
760     -706       79       87        06     97     1,1      1,51      .07     632     1.711     .6       .13     56.       .6 9    061,3     5.3,     .6      L 6.3.1.  7w60    5.6
Less urchases
1-s             ~~51.0     1.80    1.17    1.51.     1.50     500      550      650      750      800     900)     900      700      700      700      700      100      700      700      700      700
228       300     351      353       L19     1.57     511      91.1   20,20   3,520    3.011.   4,1.66   6.813    1.,913   6, 913   .,90.    1,91.3   4.,913  4. 91-3  6,94.3   L 6,91.3~
Wool Clip            4,950     5,038   5,101.   6,271     8,271.  8,571.   9,081.  10,580   11,1.13  10,71.1  9.970    9.089    8.760    8,760    8,760    8,760    8.760    8,760    8,760    OVI76    8,760
Laub. Wool             S76       576     576      621.      808     900    1,025    1,1.28   1,586   1,732    1,992    2,232    2,1.00   21.00    2,3,00   2.100    2,1.00   2,100    2,1.00  2.1.00    2,1.00
Belly Woo               0         1       1        62       36      10        .0      83        0        3.      85      19       1.81     1.80     1.80     1.08.5            LOS      18       1.0      1.8s
5,733     5,021.  5,693    7,157     9,1.7   9,377  i00037    12,24   10,5560   13,007  I12,6L,757 lu1lO  u,61     0160     1065     1160     116.     1165     11.615   116,a16
let Sales               5,961     6,121.  6,21.1   7,510     9,886 10,331.   11,050   13,1.62  16,391   16,527  16,291   16,588   16,588   16,588   16,588   16,588   16,588   16,588   16,588   16,588   16,588
III.  .:C0100MC 809590 CALCULATION
OoeValue of
-rdu, ti o.             19,301    19,1.61  19,581.  25,890    28,91.6 27,671.  35,735  32,172   37,306   3,0       .,8     1.9,815  5073    1998     1933     19,31.3  1,68     50,123   1.9,818  1.9,233  1.9,353
Opoe,.ttng Oupesditures    8.020     8.181  8,3U,J  10,91.1   12.276 13,860    IL, 650  15,270   17.1.83  18,290   19.110   19,700  19,710   19,700   19,700   19,700   19,700   19,700   19,700   19,700   19,710
Nud VAlue of
Froduotius             11,281    11,281,, 11,281   16,91.6  16,670 13,831.   21,125   16,902   19,823   21,312   21.271  30,11.5  31,023   31,278   29,523   29,963   29,988   30,1.23  30,118  29,533   29,653
I.. , ..ad Iet 9.1..
of Produolo t-                    -                3,625     5,389   2,553    9,81.1   5,621    8,51.?  10,031  12,990   18.761.  18,792   18,677   38,012   18,01.2  18,387   18,82?   18,517   17,932  18.052
Ilo   f  tock I-nc.ete
3hcop                   --                        -         --                        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        .        -     8  Boo
Oo-F.-,  1-veutes                  (11,1.50316,656) (16,91.6)  (2,71.)    . 
Net C.h Flo,.                     ((1l1:45(61.J656)  (13, 271)  2,961  2,553    9,81.1   5,621    8,51.2  10,031   12,990   18,71.1  18,792  18,677   18.01?   18,962   18,387   18,822   18,517   17,932   52, 31.4
2'Year I 6 2 E-a     clip, 2 Kges, WaShers 2.5 Rnss L. & L-~a      1.0 
3    0  0          2. 50        3,   0        L           1.0     (BellyWwal isassuad t. b        1C% of fl.eoooaal)
4.,5'6             3.0               L.0   '   5.0        1.25 
7,8,9.20           3.5               6.0      5.0         1.50
2/  es  o3e,cd .u fan,, 60 ews and 96 wethers per year.        When tnsufficient cull -ethre-
ar  -cllable. yoar 11 ouward   axtra cull es are hilled to oake up the differenc..
Cull "e.e -d -othe-n O3330300, Sane 01251.00, Hoggets 85085,00
31  Mlus Wool Clip 0001.20 per Xg,.
L-nks Wool 0191.00 p., Kg..
Belly Wool 0090.50 Par Kgo.
1.! Th.e ot cash floe obtained Iplies a rate of return to the .oeaa of 20 percen.t.
NO10, All mlce aaO.eta in thle AMDeX are in U.0.9 equiolent.



B. Farm Model 2 (Sao Pau,o and-Parana)
Pre.-Deeloponnt     1       2        3     JL       **j      6        7       8        9      10      11      12       13      lb       1j*     16      17       18      19      20
CATTLE STOCK
Breeding Cows                              359          360     359     390     hi18     1.11    1.82    533      592     657     730      752     665     620      653     711.     711.    676     61.5     661     696
Bulls                                      1.1          11       11      12      13       13)     1b      16       18      20      22       23      20      19       20      21       21      20      19       20      21
Weanltage                                  21.0        21.0     210     268     302      331.    366     1.10     1.51    506     558      620     61.0    561.     526     551.     608     606     570.     51.8    562
Fec.le                                  120         120      120     134.    151     167      183     205      227     252     279      310     320     282      263     277      306,    303     287      271.    281
MAIO                                    120         120      120     131.    151     167      183     205      227     252     279      310     320     282      263     277      306     303     287      271.    281
Heifer.                                    221          221L    221     221     237      269     306     339      377     1.19    1.65     516     572     611      581.    529      525     563     5P9      572     51.5
1-2 year,                               113         113      113     113     128     11.5     162     180      201     222     21.      271.    306     313      277     258      272     297     297      281     269
2-3 yew.s                               108         108      108     100     109     121.     11.2    159      176     197     218      21.2    260     298      307     271      253     266     292      291     276
Steer.                                     271.         27      271.    271.    279      29      310     321.     336     36.     1.05     .19     1.98    528      50,     1.70     1.65    1.93    509     1.99     1.9
1-2 years                               113         113      113     113     128     lbS      162     180      201     22      21.      271.    301.    313      277     258      272     297     297      281     269
2-3 yearn                               108         109     108      108      98      99       99      95.      88      98     109      121     131.    11.      153     136     126      133     01.6    11.6     138
3-1.years                                53          53       53      53      53      he8     1.9      1.9     1.       1       1.9     51.      60      66       71.     76      67       63      66      72       72
Total                                    1,105       1,106    1,105   1,165   1,21.   1,352    1.1.76  1,622    1,777   1,961.  2,180    2,360   2,395   2,31.2   2,287   2,288    2,333   2,358   2,336    2,300   2,30
Animal Unite                            779         700      779     817     863     925    1,006   1,099   1,200    1,321.  1,1.0    1,581.  1,501.  1,55W   1,581.   1,581.  158.     1,581.  3,581.  1,581.   1,581
-DEATHS131133
BredingCuwe8                                lb          '13      lb.     lb      1        11      10       11      12      13           1515         3       12      1        1   lb          lb i    13       13      lb
Bull,s                                                                                    -       -        I       -       -        I       -       -         I      -       -         I      -       -         1      -
WJeanlings                                  lb.          11.     1.      lb,     12      10        8       8       10      10      12       12      12      12       10      12       12      12      12       10      12
Faemale                                   7           7        7       7       6       5        1.      1.       5       5       6        6       6       6        5       6       6        6       6       5        6
Male                                      7            7       7       7       6        5       1.      1.       5       5       6        6       9       9        9       8        8l      9       9        9       8
Heifers                                      8            8       8       7       6        6       1.      6        6       6        7       7       6       6        6       5        5       6       6        6       5
1-2 years                                 5            S       S       1.     1.       1        3       1.      1.      1.       5        5       3       3        3       3       3        3       3        3       3
2-3 years                                 3            3       3       3       2       2        1       2        2       2       2        2       8       8        9       7        7       0       8        8       7
Steers                                       9          10        9       8       7        6       1.       5       5       5       6        7       6       6        6       5        5       6       6        6       5
1-2 yeare                                 5            5       5       1.       .      1.       3       1.      1.      1.       5        5       6       6        6       5        5       6       6        6       5
2-3 yeare                                 3            3       3       3       2       1        1       1        1       1       1        1       1       1        2       1        1       1       I        I       1
3-1.Years                                 1           1        1       1       1       1       -                -       -       -         1       1       1        1       1       1        1       1       1        1
1.-5 yerar                               -                -               -   -       -        -                -       -       -                -       -        -       -        -       -       -       -        -
5-6 year,                                --                   -       -               -                         -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -       -       -        -
Total                                       1.5         1.5      35      1.1     38       33      26      31       33      31.     1.1      hi      1.2     1.2      hi      hi       1.2     1.3     1.2     I,1      hi
TRANSACTIONS
Culln Cows                                5.           1.8     51.     -59     6-3     -67      7-2     800     869       99     110o    2-00    h1iS      93      98R     1-07    11.     1-31      97      09     106,
CulliBulls                                2            2       2       2       3        3       3       3        1.      1        .       S       1.      1.       1        .       1.     1.      1.               1.
Cull eifers                              5           5        5       S       5       6        7       8        9      10      11       12      13      15       15      lb.      13      13      15      15       lb
Surplus Heifer,                          -                                                                                       9-- - - 6  99  139     11.2     116     121.    USi      13      13,9    126      139
Steer.                                  l0ob        1a       106     11S     125     139      161     181.     189     201     223      21.     275     293      285     269      262     271.    283     281      271
Purchases 
Bull.                                     3            3       3       3       3        1.      5       5        6       6       5        2       3        5       6       1.       3       3       5        5       1.
Heifer.                                  --                   -       -       -                -                -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -
TECHNICAL ODEFFICIIWTS
WowaingRfate (%)                            75          73       75      77      80       82      85      85       85      85      85       8S      85      OS       85      85       85      85      85      85       85
Mortality Rates (%)                         -            -       -       -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -'       -       -       -       -        -       -
cow.o                                    1.           1.      1.       3       3        2       2       2        2       2       2        2       2       2        2       2        2       2       2        2       2
Bulls                                     2            2       2       1       1        1       1       1        1       1       1        1       1        1       1       1        1       1       1       1        1
Veanling.                                 6           6        6       S       1.       3       2       2        2       2.       2       2       2        2       2       2        2       2       2        2       2
Het!fers/Steers                                       -       -       -       -        -       -        -               -        -       -       -        -       -       --                       -        -       -
1-2 years                                 1.          1.      1.       3       3        2       2       2        2       2--     2        2       2        2       2       2        2       2       2        2       2
2-3Jyears                                 3           3        3       2       2        2       1       1        1       1       1        1       1       1        1       1       1        1       1       1        1
A     1years                              2           2        2       2       1       1        1       1        1       1       1        1       1       1        1       1       1        1       1       1        1
Age at Sale (years)                          3.5          3.5     3.5     3.2      3.0     2.7     2.5      2.5     2.5     2.5      2.5     2.5     2.5      2.5     2.5     2.5      2.5     2.5     2.5      2.5     2.5
VALUE OF TRANSACTIONS
Sale.s 
Call cows                             1,320.      1..320. 1.,320. 1.,720. 5,060.   5,360.   5,760.  6,1.oo   7,170.  7,920.  8,800. 16,000. 11,600.   7,hh1..  7,81.0.  8,560. 1i,6oo. 10,.80.  7,760.   7,920.   ,2.
Cull Bulls                              200.        200.     200.    200.    300.     300.    300.    300.     1.00.   1.00.   100.     500.    100.    1.00.    1.oo.   1.n0.    1.oo.   10o.    1.00    boo0.    100.
Cull Heifer,                            325.        325.     325.    325.    325.     390.    1.S.    e20.     585.    650..   n15.     780.    81.5.   975.     975.    910.     81,5.   81.5.   975.     975.    910.
Surplua Heifers                          -            -       -       -       -        -       -        -       -       -    3,835.   6,1.5. 9,035.   9,230.   7,51.0.  8,710o. 7,51.0  . 8,1..  9,685.  A,i90.  9,03$.
Steer                                12,1.80.    2IZABO   12,1.80. 13,80D. 15,000. 16,680. 19,320. 22,080. 22,680. 21.,120 . 26,760. 29,01.O. 33,000. 35,i60. 31.,200. 32,280. 31,1.1.. 32,800. 33,96n. 33,720. 32,520.
Purchases 
Bulls                                   1.80.       1.oo.    1.80.   1.80.   1.80.   61.0.    800.    800;.    960.    960.    A00.     320.    1.80.   800.     960.    61.0.   1.80.    1.80.   800.     00      61..
Gross Oper.ting Incomi                  16.81.5.     16,81.5. 16,015. 18,565. 20,185. 22,090. 25,035. 28,50o. 29,825. 32,130. 39,710. 53,035. 5h.h1.0. 52,1.05. 1.9,95. 50,220.      A5,1. 52,965. 51,99n. 5o,1.0. So51.5b.
ECONOMIC RETURN C"JALOTIONY
Oros, Value of Produc.ntion             16,815.     16,01.5-.16,835. 18,565. 20,185. 27,090. 25,035. 20,500. 29,825. 32,130. 39,710. 53,035. 5).1-A0. 52,1.05. 1.9,995. 50,220. 5i,31.5. 52,965. 5i,980. 5o,1.05. 5o,S15.S
Operating Eapenditures                   5,021.      5,821..  5,821.   7,120. 8,672. 10,563. 11,51.0. 12,600. 13,902. 15,1.35. 16,632. 16,632. 16,632. 16,632. 16,632. 16,632. 16,632. 16,632. 16,637. 16,632. 16,632.
Ret Value of Produ-tion                 11,021..    U1,021.. 11,021.. 11,1.15. 11.513. 11.527. 13.1.5. 15,900. 15,923. 16,695. 23,078. 36,1.3. 37,7689. 35,773. 33,361. 33 588. A1.M7. 36.333. 35,31.. 33,773. 33,913.
Increaseed Ret Value of Production                      -               121.    1.8.     503. 2.61.7.  1.,876. 1.899.   5,671, 12,051.. 25,379. 26,71.1. 21.,719. 22,339. 22,561.. 23,689. 25.309  21.,321.. 22,73.9. 22,08Q.
Value of Herd Increa.e-                                          -       -       -        -       -        -       -       -                -                -       -       -        -       -       -        -   8077
On-Farm Investment                                   (8,610-XTh,350.X17,630.)  (1.1.)     -       -        -       -                        .       -        -       -        .       -       -       -        -       -
Met Cash Flow                                       (8,610)(11.350)(17,209)     79.     503. 2,1.71.  1.,576. 1.,899.  5,6n1. 12,051.. 25,379. 26,71.1. A1,71.9. 22,339. 22,561.. 23,689. 2'q.309. NON321. 22,719.111,666.
1 noe net cueh f-lo obtained implies . rate of return to the econ.cv of 19 percent.
ROTE. All euIue amounts In this Anne, arc An U.S.$ equivalent.



C. Farm Model 3 (Pantanal. Mato Grosso and Araguaia a"ea, Goias)
Pre-Dlevelop..    1         2         3        1,        5         6         7         a         9         10        11        12       13        lb        15        16        17        18        19        20
CATTLE STOCK
Breeding Cows                         920        920       920       920      920       920       92        920       938       9Th     1,023    1,063     1,099     1,137     1,156     1,200     1,252     1,303     1,310     1,275     1,263
Bulls                                  92         92        92        92       92        92        92        92        913       97    I: ia        106       110      111,      116       120       125       130       1311      128       126
Weanlinge                             368        368       368       368      4131      1,60      506       552       552       562       581,      611,      638      660       682       694.      720       752       782       786       766
Ferals                            1813       18*       1813      181       207       230       253       276       276      281       292       307       319       330       3131     3AT        360       376,      39        393       383
Male                              18ab        1*       18ab      181,      207       230       253       276       276       281       292      307       319       330       3131      30,       360       376       391       393       383
Heifer                                328        328       328       321,     328       355       1,03      1,52      1,98      519       52k       51,0     581        589      611       631       6137      666       692       721       737
1-2sTears                         167        267       167       167       170       1913      218       21,3      265      265       270       281       295       306       317       327       333       316       360       375       3T7
2-3 Years                         161        161       161       157       158       161       185       209      233       251,      251,      259       269       283       29f       306i      31k       320       332'      3136      360
Steers                                328        328       326       32k       297      291       29       _:6.1      265       16        270       281       295       306       317      327        333,     31f       360       375       377
1-2 Tear,                         167        167       167       167       170       191,      2,18      21,3      265      265       270       281       295       306       317       327       333       316       360       375       377
2-3 Tears                         161        161       161       157       127        97        72,     -         -         -         -         -         -         - 
3-1, Tear,s                                  -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         ----                                                                  -
Total                               2,036      2,036     2,036    2,028     2,051     2,118     2,213     2,259     2,317     2,1h17    2,503     2,606     2,706o  86          282      2972      3,077     3,197      ,7        ,8        ,6
Animal Units                    1,538      1,538     1,538     1,532     1,522     1,539    1,579     1,581     1,81,6    1,705     1,770     1,036     1,906     1,976     2,026     2,096     2,172     2,251,    2,307     2,307     2.307
DEATIIS
BreedirLg Co-a               55         55        55        51        1,6      hi1       37        37        38        39        la1       13        1,1       1,5       1,        Its       50        52        52        51        51
Bull,                                   3          3         3         3         2        2         2     -   2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2         3         3         3        3         3
Veanlings                              31,        3         31,       28       26        213       20        22        22        22        21h       21,       26        26        28        28       28         30       32        32        30
Female                             17         17        17        lb        13        12        10       11         11        11       12        12        13        13        lb        lb,       11        15        16        16        15
Male                               17          11       17        lb        13        12        10        U         11        11       u         12        13        13        11,       lb         Lb       15        16        16        15
Hellfer                                18         18        18        16        lb       15        15        16        18        19        it        19        20        20        22        22        22        21.      213        25       26
1-2TYears                           10         10       10          9        8         ,         9        10        11        U        11        11        12        12        13        13        13        lb        11,       15        15
2-3TYears                           8           8         8         7        6         e         6         6         7         8         8         8        a         8         9         9         9        10        10        10        11
Steers                                 18         18        18        16       13        12        11        10       '11        11        11        11        12        12        13       13        13        113       lb        15        15
1-2Ysure                           10         10        10          9        8         9         9        10        11       11        11        U         12        12        13        13        13        11,       lb        15        15
2-3TYears                           8          8         8         7         5         3         2      -         -         -         -         -         -         ---                      ~      
Total                                 128        128       1t8       111      101        94        85        87        91        93        97        99       1a       185       Il        113       116       123       125       126       125
TRANSACTIONS
Sale,                                 -          -         -                   -        -                                                                                                                                             3 --  --  --9 
call Cows                           89         89        89       91        98       106       133       138       113      11,       153       159       165       171       173      1-80      I188       1-95     -232       20        18
cull Bulls                         18         18        18        18        18        18s       18        18        19        19        20       21        22        13        23        2k        25        26        26        26        25
Cull Heifers                              8          8              8 - 8         8              9        10        12        13       13        13        13       Ii.        15        15        16        16        17        17        le
Surplus Heifer,s                        -         -              -         -         -         I         -         -         I             -              -         -         -         -         -.3                  56        76        81
Steers                            153        151       153       181       186       20h       281       233       25k       251,     259       269       283       294,      3A        311,      320       332       3136      360       362
Purchsan,                             -          -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         --------
Bulla                              21          21       21        21        21        20        20        22        26        26        26       27         o1       2?        30        39        33        29        25        27        29
TECHNIJCAL 00EFFICIRNTS
Weaning Rate()                         1,0        1,0       1,0      1,         5        55        60        60        60        60        60'       60        60        60        de        60        60       60        60        60        60
Mortality Rtates (%)                  -          -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         - 
Cows                                6           6        6          5        5         1,        b 1,      1         1,        1        1,        1         13        1         1,        1         1,        1         1,         ,*       1
Bulls                                3          3         3         3        2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2        2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2
weainlig                             9          9         9         8        6         5         1         ,         1         ,         1         ,        1          .        1          31                  31                  31
Heifers/Steres-                               -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -                   -------
1-2 Tears                           6           6        6         5         5         4,        1,        h,       lh         ,        1,         ,        1         1,        1,      7,          1,        1,     .            1 
2-3 Yeare                           5          5         5         1,        1         3         3        .3         3         3         3         3        3         3         3         3         3         3         3         3         3
A-bTeara                             3          3         3         3         2        2         2         2         2         2         2         2        2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2
h3-5Tears                            2          2         2         2        1         1         1         1         1         1         1         1         1        1         1         1         1         1         1         1         1
Age at Sale (Years)                     3.0        3.0       3.0       2.7       2.5      2.2       2.    . 2.0    2.0       2.0       2.0            2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0      -2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0      -2.0
VALUE OF TRAN4SCTIONS
Sual.,                                                     -         28     7-          Zo     lo ;b        -         -         -                         13 -      13-                                                         16- --  -  15-2
Otli Cow,                       7,120      7,20      7,120     728       7,10      818     1,10      1,6       11,280    11,680    12,21,0   12,720    13200     13680     13,M 0      3~hO0   15,060    15,600    18560     1,10     1,2
Dal1 Bouslr                     1,80*1     1,80J     1,800     1,800     1,800     1,800,    1,800    1,800     1,900     1,900     2,000     2,I!00    2,200     2,300     2,300     2,100     2,500     2,600     2,600     2,600)    2,50D
cull Heifer                       520        520       520       520       520       520       585       650       780       81,5      815       8135     8135      910       97        9T5     1,01,0    1,060     1,105     1,105     1,170
Surplus Heifer,s                                                               -               -              -         -              -         -        -                                               2,535     3,81o     h3,91,0o6
Steers                 113,688   lk,688 163,688      17J376    17,856    19581     26,976    22,368    213,38h,  213,382   213,861   25        2,6        2,22k   29,181     3O,1kb    3072     31,872     33.21A   313,560   i:5
Purchaes                              -          -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -                   -         --------
Bullsa                          3,360      3360      3,360     3,360     3,360     3,200     3,200     3,520    3,81,0    h 13,60   b,16o     1,320     13,180    13,320    13,800    5,120     5,280     13,610    1,000     13,320    13,6b0
Gross Operating Income            20,768     20,768    20,768    23,616    213,656   27,181,   36,801    32,338    313,50h   313,619   35,789    37,169    38,933   1,0,791,  1,,199    0,2799    1,13020   1,9,007   55,121    55,10     513,167
E00NOIC RETRN CALCULATION V
Gme    Value of Production        20,768     20,768    20,768    23,616    2h3,656   27,1813   36,801    32,338    33,501,   313,6h9   35,789    37,169    38,933   ho0,7913  1,1,199  .12,799     ,300     1900       511      5,2       513,167
Operating Rupenditures              7,277      7,277     7,277    8,371     9,610    11,053    11,067    11,522    11,935    12,390    12,852    13,31,2   13,832   113,182   1l3,672   15,206i   15,778    16,1119   16,10,    16,1139   16,1139
Net Value of Production           13,0,1     13,k9.;   13,139    15,215    15,037    16,131    25,7313   20,816    22,569    ", 259    22,937    23,827    25,101    26,612   26,827    27,595    28,21,2   32,858   .38,972    38,976    38,01
Inrased Met Value of Prod.                      -         -       1,75h3    1,5136    2,6130  12,21,3     7,325    9,078     8,768     9,hh16   10,336    11,610    13,121    13,336    11b,iol   1l3,741   19,367    2ev,1ei  275,1.8    213,527
Value oStock Incorease                           -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -------                                                           7,0
On-Pam   ln.'estment                         (10,556) (16,2130) (13,398)     (106)      -         -         -         -                   -         -         -         --------
Net Cash flo                                (lC,556) (16,2130) (11,6U 1)    1,11,0    2,6130   12,213     7,3?5     9,078     8,768     9,1316   10,336    11,610   13,121    13,336    l4,10k    113.751   19,367    25,138    25,1,8   183.327
1/ The net cash flo., obtained implies a rate of return to the econotto of 1f perc-ent.
R0TEr All value amounts in thie Annex are in U.S.$ equivalent,                                                                                                                                                                                     I



D.  Farm Model I. (Planalto. Mato Qro'ao and SW/Braailla &rear. 001,>.)
Pre-Develope.ent      1       2        3       1.       5        6       7        ti      9        10       11     12        13      11.      15       16       17      1o       19       20
CAFTLI 3rT8CK
Vrdine Cowo                          6~~     ~     ~~~~    ~~~~~20  520  520  520  520  520    521     51.0     572      61!.    632      571     725      738     6199     6;63      i96     709      707     700      698
BullS                                ~~~~~~                 ~~~      ~~~     ~~~~52  52  52  52  52  52  52  61.  57      61      63       67     73        71.      70      68       70       71       71      70       70
*,(!n'An uz                                      231,           23!.    23!.     234.    266      298      332     36!.     378     4.00     1.30     1.42   1.7       508      616     1.90     1.78     1.88    1.96     1,21.    190
~'eal,                                         117            117     117      117     133      11.9     16'     182      189      200     215      221     235      251.     258      2h.6    239      21.1    21.8     21.7     21.
Male                                           117            117     117      117     133      11.9     166      182     189      200     215      221     235       251.    258      21.5     239     21.1     21.8    24.7     21.6
Hlei f, ro                                       211            211     211      210    1 212     231      265      300     333      351.     372     396     h17      1.36     1.67     1.90     1.80    1.62     6.61    1.70     1.74
1-2 years                                      108            108     108      108     109      126     11.3     161      177      183     191.     208    215       228      21.6    251      237      232      236     21.1     21.0
2-3 years                                      103            103     103      102     103      105      122     139      156      171     178      188     202      208      221      239     21.3     230      225     229      231.
Steers                                          211            211      211      210     191      189     192      161      177     183      191.     208    215       228     21.6     251      237      232     236      21.1     21.0
1-2  years                                     108            108     108      108     109      126      11.     161      177      183     191.     208     215      228      21.      251     237      232      236     21.1     21.0
2-3  years                                     103            103     103      102      82       63       1.9    -                 -       -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        --
Total                                          1,228          1,228   1,228    1,226   1,21.1   1,290    1,362   1,4.19   1,517    1,612   1,691    1,781.  1,900    1,981.   1,998    1,982   1,961    1,962    1,971   1,975    1,972
AulOal linlts                                    911            9U      911      911     903      917      91.      971   1,01.2   1,113   1,160    1,229   1,311    1,367    1,367    1,367   1,367    1,367    1, 367  1,367    1,367
IE,AT'1S
Brcodlnpl Cows                                    26             26       26      23       21      18       16       16      17       18       19      20      22        22      21       20       21      21       21      21       21
Bulls                                              1              I        1       1        1       1        1        1       1       .1        1       1       1         1       1        1    *1          1        1        1        1
Fesanlenl 9                                                     la        9       81      76 lb   12        5                62      62       62       14                8       86      lb       7b      74        7       7b       7
Heale                                            9              9        9       8        7       6        5        5       6        6        6       7       7         8       8        7        7       7        7        7       7
IAeirsm                                            9              9        9       9        7       7        6        8       8        8       10      10      10        11      11       13       12      12       12       12       12
1-2 year-s                                       5              5        6       6        1.       .       1.       5       6        5        6       6       6        7        I        8        7       7        7        7       7
2-3 years                                        4.             1.       1       4        3       3        2        3       3        3        1.      4.     1.        4.                5        5       5        5        5       5
,tcer,                                             9              9       9        9       6        6        6       5        5        5       6        6       6        7        I        8       7        7        7       7-       7
l-2 years                                        6              5        5       5       4.       1.      1.                5        5       6        6       6        7        I        a        7       7        7       7        7
2-3 years                                        .              1.      4.       4        2       2        1     -                                       __ - - _    -                                  --                        -7
Total                                             63             63       63      58      1.9      1.1      38      1.0      1.3      h!      1.8      51      53        57      56       56       55      55       55      65       65
T.UN3ACTI OtI
Cull Cows                                      67             67      67       70      71.      78       78       81      86       92       95     101     109      160      121.     102     101.     109      113     107      105
Cull Bulls                                     10             10      10       10      10       10       10      11       11       12       13      13      15       15       11.      lbi      14.    1lb       lb       lb      1.
Cull ielefers                                   6              5       6        6       5        5        6        7       8        9       9        9      10       10       11       12      12       12       11      11       12
Surplus Halrers                               -4 -                                                                       -        -        -       -        15        61      80       86       88      86       82       87      88
Steers                                         98             98       98     119     122      1314     186      156     171      178      18O     202     208       221     239      21.3     230     226      229      231.    233
Purchase                                                       U       11       11       U       11       13      15       16       15      17       20      17       12       13       16       16      15      11.      lb       16
TECHAI CAL COEFFICIENTS
Bulls/Cows (AB)                                  10             10      10       10      10       10       10      10       10       10      10       10      10        10      10       10       10      10       10       10      10
Weaning Rat.e(%)                                 1.5            15       1.6     61       57      61.      70       70       70      70       70       70     70        70      70       70       70       70      70       70       70
mortality Rates()
rCoWs                                           6              5        5       1.      1        3        3        3       3        3        3       3       3        3        3        3        3       3        3        3       3
Bulls                                           2              2        2       2       1        1        1       1        1        1        1       1       1         1       1        1        1       1        1        1       1
Weanlings                                       8              8        8       7        5       1.       3        3       3        3        3       3       3         3       3        3        3       3        3        3        3
Helifers/Steers--                                                             -        -                        -        -        -       -        -       --                -        -        -       -        -       --
1-2 years                                       6              5        5       4.      4        3        3       3        3        3        3       3       3        3        3        3        3       3        j        3       3
2-3 years                                       1.1                     1.      3        3       2        2        2       2      *2        2        2       2         2       2        2        2       2        2        2       2
Age at Sale -(Yeara)                              3,0            3.0       2.7    2.5      2.2     2.0       2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0       2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0    7.0      2.0      9,0      2.0
VALUE 0?P TNAANSACTIOI9S
siaes
Cull1 Cows                                 6,360           6,360)  5,360    6,600   5,920    6,21,0   6,21.0  6,1.80   6,880    7,360   7,0600   8,080   8,720   12,000    9,680    8,160   8, 320   8,720    9,01.0  8,660    8,1.00
Cull Bulls                                  1,000          1,000)  1,000c   1,000   1,000    1,000    1,000   1,100    1,100    1,200   1,300    1,300   1,500    1,600    1,1.00   1,1.00   1,.00   1,1.00    ,1.00   1,1.00  1,1.00
Cull Hlelfers                                 32C            326      325     325      375     325      390      4565    520      685      586     695     650       650     715      780      780     780      715      715      780
.Surplus Heifers.                                            -       -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -       -     2,925     3,965   6,200    6,690    5,720   6,500    5,330    5,655   5,720
Steers                                      9,1.08         9,JA08  9,b08   11,1.21. 11,712  12,861.  1.7,856  1h,976  16,1.16  17,088  18,01.   19,392 19,968    21,216   22,91.1  23,328  22,080   21,600   21,981.  22,.h1.  22,368
Purchases
Flulls                                     1,760          1, 7Srj  1,760    1,760   1,760    1,760    2,080   2I,h.00  2,560   2,1.V)1  2,720    3,200  2,720     1,920    2,080    2,560   2,660    2,1.0    2,21.0  7,7.0    2,1400
ECCNC81C K.1TRWJ 2ALC1'LJkTI1Ol/
'Ircss  a ,ue o  Proucti-o-n                 11,3 33        l.3'     110,33  16,559  17,197   18,669   2,.62,1          22,356, 23,833    2!5,81 1  26,1 7 31,01.3  37,1.11  37,855  36,6'9   15,7r(1  35,6,9(  36,722  35,551.  36,269
01-r,,tiog 1xpeodlt,,rvs                      5,121:         5,121.  ~ 6,17:  6, 63    ;,301-  7, 112   7,2x2    7,815   V, 31.7  6,700    9,217  -2,432 1)21,22    19,2L2  10,252   10,252   10,252  10,252   10,252   10,252  10,252
qet V.ul,, of Prolu.ction                     Q,209)         9,200    ):0     ii,,16  12),893  11,9467  '6,121. ~2,796  lb1.,ll  15,173   15,S;'  14,32, 211,721l   27,169~ 27,60,   2S,1.1.6  21,7   '5,1.3b  25,97(   26,392  26,016
Docr-uned N,eL Jal-e of 1'rud,.ctim,                           -       -      1,71'   1,6,81,  2, 1; .   ,I I,1  3,587   I.,90l  r6,92L   6,,317   ',116 l1,'87    17,950   18,398   17,237  16,779   16,7?29  16,768  17,093   16,807
1lulu  of St.ck lnra'                                                                                                               -       -        -       --                -        -        -       -        -        -    17,837
uu--'.rm lnvestmsent                                        (HC8(32'(I 3,791"            7111                                       -        -        -      --                 -    
Net :ash Flow                                               085~l1,01l,,7                 70)  2, 16; Li  9      1,',F7  h,,'`,0  ','l      ,3,7   -,116  11,1;82   17,0r11  18,398  17,237  l';,?77.  1672      ,768B  17,093   S)1,61.1
1/ The not cash flow obtain,ed i.plies a rate of return to the econuely of 10 percent.
NDTE: All value aooanLs in this Annex are in U.S.j equicalent.



r   Fare Model 5'North GGIao)
Prelolseet               1        2       3        1.'                                 A        9        10       II      12       13       11       19       31       17       II'      19        20
CATTLE STOCK
Brooding Co..s                       200               200      200     395      5,.      961.      ,61.   9;51       62      5999     6, 50             60I  r   960      557      955~     556      598      558     557       557
Bu'lls                                10                10       10      20       28       28       29       28       22       7        27       29       28       231      28       283      28       28       28       28        2.
Wen-llngs                             90                90       90      90      198      301.     332      360      3A0%     378      3(3,     356,     360      313,     3(I      362      350      362      3621     362       36?
Fe.ale                             1.5              1.        15      h.5      99      152      1_6.     ISO0     180     189      1112      178     180      182      182      181      1S0      183      181      181       781
Woe                               O.                6.5       .5      1.5      99      192      1 (V     180      180     179g      102     178      180      182      18?      181      180      181      181      181       181
Helrers                               80                80       80      80       82      133      2V1      301      331      11.q     353      i51,     jI.!     362      91.6"    318      31.7     34.5    31.5     31.        31.7
1-2 year.                          1.i               hi       hi      ,I       1.2      93      196,     1'3      175      175      181      176     173      171.     177      177      176      175      175      176       176
2-3 years                          39                39       39      39       1.0     "I0       90      11.2     166     170      170      178      171      168      169      171      171'     170      170      170       171
Steers                                80                80       80      80       73.     117      1 S2     189      175      17c:     183      17       173      171.     177      177      176      175      175      176       17?6
1-2 years                         1.i               1.1       hi      11       1.2      91      11. 6    161      176      176     181       17'-    171      1 7t.    177      177      1 76     175      175      176       116
2-3 years                          39                39       39      39       32      2Ph       31       28
3-1. years
1.-5 your
5-6 years
Total                                1.60              1.0      16      66i      936    1.131    1.132    1 .1,1   I..7     11.86    1,3,75   1 ,1.7   1,1.65   1.1.68   1,1h72  1.1.0    1,l1,67  1.~1.8   1,1.68   1,1.69    1,1.70
Ani,sal Vail,      31.0              31.0     31.0    ~~~~     ~~~~~~   ~~~~~521  0.  0  99  95  1,1       ,19     1,019    1,1      ,19      1,019   1,019    1,019    1,019    1,019    1,019    1,019     1,017
DEATHS
Breeding1 Coos                        10                10       10      18       22       19       17       17       17       13       16       17       17       17       17       17       17       17       17       17       17
Bulls                                                                     I                 1                 1                 1                          1                 1                 1                 1                 1
Wea-lings                              8                 8        8        6      10        12      10       10       10       12       10       10       10       10       10       10       10       10       10       10        10
Female                             4.1.                       1        3        5        6        5        $        5        6                 5       5        5        5        9        5        5        5        5         5
Main                                1,                .        1.      3        5        6                 5        5                 5        5        5        5        51       5        5        5       5        5         5
Heifers                                1.               1.        1       3         3       1.       6        8        8        8        9        9        8        8        8        8        8        a        8       8         8
1-2 years                           2                 2        2       2        2        3        1.       5        5        5        A        5       5        5        5        5        5        5        5        5     .5
2-3 years                           2                 2        2       1        1        1        2        3        3        3        3       1.       3        3        3        1        1        3        3        3         3
Steers                                 4.                1.       1        3        3        1.      5        6         5       5        A        5        5        5        5        9        5        5        5        5         5
1-2 years                           2                 2        2       2        2        3        1.       5        5        5       1.       9        5        5        5        9        5        5        5        5         5
2-3 years                          2                  2        2       1        1        1        1        1
3-1. years
1.-S year
5-6 years
Tot.l                                 26                26       26       31      38       1.0      38       h,2      h.0      hi       11       1.i     1.1      III0       1i     1.0        1       1.0      hi1     1.0       61
T.?AN15&CTIONS -
Cull Cowrs                            25                25       30      59       11.      18       67       83      110       91.      82       83      81.       87        85      83       83       o1.      81.     81.       8)
Call Balls                             2                 2        2       1.       6        6        6I       6-       6,       1                 6        6        6         6I      6        6I       6       6I        6        6~
CullMeifers                           2                 2        2        2        2        2       5        7        8        8        8        9        9        8         a       9        9        9        8        9        9
Surplu. H.Ifars                                                                   ~   ~~       ~   ~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~5 U.  57  55  611  58  55   57  ~   8       58       58       58       58        58
Steers                                37                37       37      1.6      1.7      78      11,9     181.     170      170      1' S     I71      168      169       171     171      170      I70     170      171       170
Purchase.
Bulls                                  2                 2       12      12         I       (6       6        7        5        9        6        6        6        6I        el      6        6        A        6        6         A
Nlei f-r                                                        100     100
We-sing~tett   (53                    1.                1.S      1.       50       55       60      6,5      65       65       69S      65       65       65       65        65      65       69       A5       65      6,5        65
Mortalit l .ate, (5)
Coos                                5                 5        5       1.      1.        3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3         3       3        3       3        3        3         3
Bulls                               2                 2        2       2        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1       1          1      1        1        1        1        1         1
'J.Ienlings                         8                 8        8       7        5        1.            3        3            3        3        3        3        3         3       3        3        3        3       3         3
Hlelfers/Steers
1-2 years                       5                 5        5        1.      1.        3        3        3        3        3        3        3       3        3          3      3        3        3        3        3         3
2-3 years                        .                1.       1.4          3             2       2         2       2        2        2        2        2        2         2       2        2        2        2        2         2
3-1.years                        3                3         3       3        2        2        2        2        2        2       2        2        2        2         ?       2        2        2        2        2         2
.-5 oears                       2                 2         2       2        1        1        1        1        1       'I        I        I       1        I         1       I        I        1        I        1         1
VALUE OF TWAISACTIONS
Sales
Call Cowr                           2000              2000     21.00   1720     1120     13,1.0   S360     ('4J.0   8800     7520     6540     661.0   6720      A960      6800   661.     661.0      6720   6720     6720      672-0
Call Bulls                           200               200      200     4.00     6100     600      6100     600o     600      600      900      600      A00      600       600     600      600       6OD    600      600       400)
Call H..feru                         130               130      130     130      130      130      325      h.SS     520      520      920      985      589      520       520     585      58S       S85    52o      589       S8S
Surplus Hollers                        0                 0        0       0        0        0        0      325     266,5    1705     3575     3770     3770     3575      3705    3770     3770      1770   3770     3770      3770
Steers                              3552              3552     3552    1.116   1,S12     71.8    11,301,  17661.   16,320   169320   17088    163.1k'  16,128  16~221.    161.6161.A16hf  16320     16120   16320    161.16    16320
Puarchases
Bulls                                320               320     1920    1920      9610     960      960O    1120      800      806)     960      960(    960       96;0      960    960   0   9         960    960      960       960
Ileif.rs                               0                 0     8000    8000        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0         0      0         0        0
Gross Opera.ting Inoose                5562              5562    (3638)    (251.)  91.02    86,98   19629    21094,   28106    278695   27281    2706;1   2681,3   26919     27081   27061    26959     27019 296970    27131     27036~
ECONOMIC iETUIVI CALCULATION V
Gross Value of Pr-d.ct.an           5567P             5562    (3638)   ( 251)   91.02    8(98    19629    21,96h,  28105    278(5    27783    2'1051   2681,    26919     27081  27051     2,6955    27035  26970    27131     27015
Operatinug Expenditures            (201.0)           (201.0)  (3517)  (5280)   (6625)   (1289)   (881.7)  19171)   (9171)   19171)   19171)   (9171)   (9171)  (9171)     (9171) (9171)   (9171)     (9121) (9171)   (9171)    (9171)
Net Value of Production             3522              3522    (7155)  (5531.)  (1223)     1,09   10782    15393    18931.   189A     13112    17880    17672    1771,8    17910   17880    17781.    1781!,  17799   17960     17861.
Increased Net Value of Prod-
a.tlos                                                      IG(1077)  )9aj56)  (!aVIMS  (3113)   72(0    11871    153,12   15172    1.690   11,198   14150   11.226    13,388  11,158   10,62     11.312  11.277   141,38   13,11.2
On-Far.  Investesot                                  (9520) (21 280) (21.080)  (1120D)      -      -        -        -        -        -        -        -        ---                                  -      -        --
Value of Stock Increase-                                        -       --                         -        -        --                         -        -                  -       -       --                - -              69786
Nlet Cash Floor                                      (952o) (31957) 1 33136~) (5865)    (3113)    7260    11871    15317   15172    13,990   11.358   11,190   11.226    13,188  113,358  11,762   11.1.   11.277    WOO,3    81.128
I/   The net cash flow   obtained 1mplies a rate of return to the economy of 12 percent.
NOTEE, A11 salue amsounte in this Annex are in U.S.$ eqauoalent,



F.  For.m Model 6 (South boias)
Pre-D"evepoent         1        2       3       1.      5       6        7       8       9      10      11      12       13      21.    _IL       16      17      18      19       20
CATTLE STOCK
Breeding Com,.                   1.00            400      .00    1.00     bo00    100     1.01    1.1)     11       .61    1.92    520     523      51.7    580     556'.   535      529     552     560      553
Bulls                             20              20       20      20      20      20      20      21       22      23      25      26      26       27      29      28      27       26      28      28       28
Wesnlings                        180             180      180     180     200     220     21.0    260      268     282     300      320    338      31.     356     376     362      31.8    31.1    358      361.
Fe-lal                         90              90       90     90      100     110     120     130      13.     11.1    150     160     169      170     178     188     181      171.    172     179      1a2
Male                           90              90       90     90      100     110     120     130      131.    IL1     150     160     169      170     178     188     181      171.    172     179      182
Beiferm                          162             162      162     162     163     175     196     218      239     252     263     278      296     311.    321.    332     350      352     339     331      336
1-2 Years                      83              83       83     83       81.     91.    105     116      126     130     137     lb5     155     161.     165     172     183     175      169     167      171.
2-3 Years                      79              79       79     79       79      81      91     102      113     122     126     133     11.1    150      159     160     167     17?      170     161      162
Steers                           237             237      237     237     221.    221     227     218      239     252     263     278     296      311.    321.    332     350      352     339     331      336
1-2 Yeers                      83              82       83     83       81,    91.     105     116      126     130     137     11.5    155      161.    165     172     183      175     169     167      111.
2-3 Tears                      78              79       78     79       79      81      91     102      113     122     126     133     11.1     150     159     160     167      177     170     161.     162
3-1.Years                      76              76       76     75      61       1.6     31
Tota                             999             999      999    99,9   1,007   1,036   1.081,  1.130    1,202   1,270   1,31.3  1,1.22  1,0.9    1,51.2  1,613   i,621.  1,621.   1,607   1,602   1,608    1,617
Anl-Il Units                     756              756     756     756     7.      T52     772     789      81.1    893     91.3    996   1,030    1,080   1,131.  1,131.   1,131.  1,131.  1,131.  1,131.   1,131
mATHS
Bered±kg Coes                     20              20       20     18      16      ii.      12      12      13       11.     15      16      16       16      17      17      16       16      17      17       17
Bulls                              I                        1              1                        1                        1               I                1               I                I                I
weusnIigs                         1.               lb.    31]      12      10      10       8        8       8       8       8      10       10      10      10      12       10      10      10      10       10
Femal                           7                7       7      6        5       5       1.       .       1.     1.       1       5      5         5       5       6       5        5       5       5        5
Male                            7               7        7      6        5       5       1.      1.      1.              1.       5       5        5       5       6       5        5       5       5        5
Hleifers                           7                7       7       7       5       5       5       5        6       6       7       7       8        a       8       8        8       9       a       8        8
1-2 Years                       .               1.       .      1.      3        3       3       3       1.       1       .       1.      5        5       5       5       5        5       5       5        5
2-3 Yea.rs                      3               3        3      3        2       2       2       2        2       2       3       3       3        3       3       3       3        1.              3        3
Steers                             9               9        9       9       7       6       6       5        6       6       7       7       8        8       a       8       8        9       8       8        8
1-2 Years                       4               4       1.      1.       3       3       3       3       1.      1.      1.               5        5       5       5       5        5       5       5        5
2-3 Years                       3               3        3      3        2       2       2       2        2       2       3       3       3        3       3       3       3       1.      3        3        3
3-1.Ysarv                       2               2        2      2        2       1       1
Total                             51              50       51     1.6      39      35      31      31       33      31.     38      1.0     1.3     12       11      1.5     1.3     1.8     1.1     1.        1.1
TBANSACTIONS
sacuincows                          52               52      52     51.      57      60      60      62       65      69      71.     78      79       82     111     lob.     86       79      83      91       96
cullBulls                         I.               2        1.      .      1.      1.               1.      1.       5       5       5       5        5       6       6       5        5       6       6        6
CalBlfHeirs                        .               1.       ,      1.      4        1.      5       5       6        6       6       7       7        8       a       8       8        9       9       8        8
Surplus Melfers                                                                                                                                       9      lab     1.9     59       1.7     51      51       51
Steer                             71.11                   71      88       90      92     120     100      lii     120     121.    130     138      11.7    15      157     16.     171.     167     160      159
Purebases
Bauml                             4.1                       .      1        .       1       5       5       6        6       7       6       7       7        5       5       5        7       6       6        5
flJSICMAL CORFIC2EBr
Weaning Rate(%                    1.5             4.5     4.5      50      55      60      65      65       65      65      65      65      65       65      65      65      65       65      65      65       65
Mortality Rates ME
Cows                            5               5        5      1.       1       3       3       3        3       3       3       3       3        3       3       3       3        3       3       3        3
Bulls                           2               2        2      2        1       1       1       1       1        1       1       1       1        1       1       1       1       1        1       1        1
weateer     s                   8       8                8       7       5       1.      3       3        3       3       3       3       3        3       3       3       3       3        3       33
1-2 Years                    5               5       5        .      1.       3       3       3       3        3       3       3       3       3       3        3       3       3        3       3        3
2-3 Tears                   4.                .      1.      3       3        2       2       2       2       2        2       2       2       2        2       2       2       2        2      2         2
3-1.Years                    3               3       3       3       2        2       2       2       2        2       2       2       2       2        2       2       2       2        2       2        2
Age at Sale (Tears)               h..0            1.0      LO.     3.7     3.5     3.2     3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0
BAWLJ OF IWISACTIONfS
saeCull Coes                     1,160           1.,160  4*,160   1.,320  1.,560  4.,800  1.,800,  1,960   5,200   5,520   5,920   6,21.0  6,320   6,560    8,880   8,320   6,880   6,320    6,61.0  7,280    7,680
CuliBung                         1.0             1.00     1.o0   1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.0D     500     500     500     500     500      600     600     500      500     60D     600      600
Cull Heifere                     260             260      260    260      260     260     325     325      390     390     390     1.55    1.55     520     520     520     520      585     585     520      520
Surplus Heifers                           -         '      -      -        -       -       -           -           -        -       -       -      585    2,860   3,185   3,835   3,055    3,315   3,315    3,315
St""r                          8,880           8,880   8,880   10,560  10,800  11,060  16,1.00  12,000  13.320  14.,1.0  1h,880  15,600  16,560  17,61.0  18,720  18,81.0  19,680  20,880  20,060  19,200  190800
Purchases
Bulls                            61.             61.0     61.    61.0    61.0     61.     800     800      960     960   1,120     960   1,120   1,120      800     800     800   1,120      960     960      800
Gross Operating Incmse            13,060         "13,060  13,060   14.,900  15,380  15,860  19,125  16,885  18,350  19,850  20,570  21,835  22,715   24.,685  30,780  30,665  30,615  30,220  30,220  29,955   30,395
BCONCB4IC RETURN CALCUIATIONY
Gross Value of Produotion         13,060          13,060   13,060  11.,900  15,380  15,860  19,125  16,885  18,350  19,850  20,570  21,835  22,715   21.,685  30,780  30,665  30,615  30,220  30,220  29,9155  30,395
Operating Erpendit'.ras            1.25,253                 4.,253  1.,675  5,170   5,790   5,918   6,308    6,698   7,073   7,1.0   7,725   8,100    8,505   8,505   8,505   8,505    8,505   8,505   8,505    8,.0
Not Value o.f Production           8,807           8,807    8,807  10,225  10,210  10,070  13,207  10,577   11,652  12,777  13.100  11.,110  11.,615  16,180  22.25  22,160  22,110   21,715  21,715  21,150   21,890
Increased Bet Value
of Production                                      -        -     1I1.18  1,1.03  1,263   1.,100  1,770    2,81.5  3,970   1.,293  5,303   5,808   7,373   13,1.68  13,353  13,303  12,908  12,908  12,61.   13,083
value o.f Stock Increase                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1,915
On-Pare Investment                                (8,033)(10,20.) (8,587)    (831)
Net Cash Flo.                                     (8,033)(10,21.9) (7,169)    572   1,263   1.,1.00  1,770  2,%15    3,970   1.,293  5,303   5,808   7,373   13,4.68  13,353  13,303  12,908  12,908  12,613   54.,998
I/ The net cash flm. obtalned i.plies a r,te of return to the econsn7 of 16 percent.
NOlE. All ra1se an,ounts in this Annex are in U.S.$ eqoleslent.



Pr.-
I a e                           A                        2       A       2        2      Ul       la21.                   2               22      I2       12      22
~~sgCoe,        9~~00      900     900     900     900     900     901     517      5.2     576     6'15    651     688     728     772      818     866     891     820     82.9    en
5013.s         ~~~~25      25      25      25       25      25      25      26      27      29       31      33      31.     36      39      la1     13      1.3     la1       1      1.2
Ideanlings           221.       221.    221.    221.    250     271.     300     326     336     352     3Th     bo00    1.21    1.1.    I.h      502     532     561     95"     532     530
Fee,le            112         113     112     112     125     137     190     163      168     176     187     200     212     221.    237      21      266     28?     276     266     265
Hale               112        112     13      112     125     137     150     163      16      176     187     200     212     221.    237      291     266     2?f     276     266     26~
Heifer               203        203     203     202     201.    219     21.      273     299     316     329     31.     370     393     1.16     L.39    1.66    1.91.   523     533      1
1 2lYeara          101        101.   10.      103     105     118     132     11.9     198     163     171     182     191.    205     217      229     21.3    258     27      268     258
2-3 Years           9    99        9    9  99          99     101     I31     128     11a      153     198     166     176     188     199      210     223     236     250     265     260
Steere               201        201     201     201     181.    178     178     171      198     163     171     182     191.    205     217     229      21.     258     273     268     258
1-2 Year,         103         103     103     103     105     118     132     11.      198     163     171     182     191.    205     217      229     21.     298     273     268     258
2-3 Years          98          98      98      98      79      60      1.6     26
3-1. Year,
L.-5 Years
5-6 Years
TOTAL   -          1,153      1,153   1,193   L.1IP   1,163   1,1I96  1,250    1,313   1,362   1,1.6   1,520   1,63.1  1,710   1,810   1,918    2,029   2,150   2,210   2,209   2,189   2,179
Ns.of An1mLl Unite     891        851     89      851     813     850     871      909     939     993   1,052   1,213  1,180   1,250   1,321.   I,1.3   1,1.86  1,517   1,517   1,517   1,517
Br.edlng Cou,         25         25      25      22      20      17      19      19      '16      17      18      20      21      22      23      25       26      26      25      21.     25
Ssfls                 I                   1               1               I               I                I               1               I                I               1               1
IlenLings             18         18      18      1.6     11      12        8      10      10      10      12      12      12     1lb      11       16      16      16      16      16      16
Faml.9                     9       9       8       7       6       1.      9       9       9        6       6       6       7       7       8        8       8       8       8       8
male                 9          9       9       8       7       6       1.       9       9       9       6       6       6       7       7        8       8       8       8       8       8
Seifers                9          9               8       7       7       6        7       8       8       8       8      10      10      11      1        11      13      13      13      13
1-2 Years            9          9       9       9        .      1.       .      1.       5       9       9       9       6       6       7        7       7       8       8       8       5
2-3 Years           1.         1.       1       3       3       3       2       3        3       3       3       3       1.      b 1.    1        1   1           9       5       9       9
Steers          ~9         12       9       a       6        6       9       5       5       9       9       9       6        6       7       7       7       8       8       8        8
1 2 Years            9          9       9       9       1.      1.       .      1.       9       9       9               6       6       7        7       7       8       8       8       8
2-3 Yars            1.         1.      1        3       2       2       1       1
TOTAL                 62         61.     62      5.      .8      1.2      35      37      1.0     10      1.1.    1.9      0      52      96       99      61      63      63      61      63
cull Co.             65          66      65      68      71      75      75       77      81      86      92      98     103     109     116     123      11.6    198     128     122     129
CullBoill,             9          9       9       9       9       9         9   9          9       6       6       7       7       7        8       8       9       9       8       8       8
ColiHeifers            5          9       9       9       9       9       6        6       7       8       8       8       9       9      10      11       11      12      13      13      13
Surplus Heifers                                                                                                                                        *   91      66      89      81.     86
Streer                91.        92      91.    131.    117     127     11.7    166      193     198     166     176     188    199      210      223     236     290     269     260     251
Purchase.f
Bulle                  9          9       9       9       9       9       6        7       7       8       8       9       9      10      10      1.        8       7       8       9       9
Heifers
ldesningSte(.D)  1.        1.9     1.5       0      99      60      65      65      65      69       69      69      65      69      65      65      65      69       65      69      69
Mortalty Rates(%
Cov                 5           9       9       .       1.      3       3       3        3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3        3       3       3       3
Mall                2           2       2       2       1       1       1       1       1        1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1        1       1       1       1
weanlings            8          8       8       7       9       1.      3        3       3       3       3       3       3       3        3       3       3       3       3       3       3
HeifersISteer,
1-2YeTom          9           9       9       .       1.      3        3     .3        3       3       3       3       3       3        3       3       3       3       3       3       3
2-3eTom           1.         1.       1       3       3       2       2       2        2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2        2       2       2       2
3-hYears          3           3       3       3       1       2       2        2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2        ?       2       2       2       2
1.-SYTeam          2          2       2       2       1       1       1I                               1       I       1       1       1       1        I       1       1       I       1
5-6 Years
Age at Sale
(Years)         3.0         3.0     3.0     2.7     2.9     2.2     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0
Value of Transactions
b"al
Cull Cows          9,200      9,200   9,200   5,.1.0  9,680   6,000   6,000   6,16o    6,.80O  6,880   7,360   7,81.0  8.21.C  8,720   9,280   9,.8h0  11,680  12,61.0  10.21.0  9,760  10,00
cull Bul.ls          900        900     900     900     900     900     900      900     900     600     600     700     720     700     800     800      900     900    8SW      8oo     800
Call Heifer,         329        325     329     329     329     329     390      390     1.99    920     920     920     989     989     690     715     715      780     81.9    81.     81.
Surplus Heif.rs             -         -           -       -       -                -                       -       --      -           -           -   3,318   1.,290   5.525   5.1.60  9,990
Steers             9,021.     9,021.  9.o21. i0.91.4. 11.232  12,192  311.1.12  15.936  11..688  15,168  15.936  16. 896  18,01.8  19.101.  20,16~0 21,1.8  22,696  21..000  25,11.  21.,960  2L.,096
P.orchoeee
Bulls                800        800     800     800     800     800      960   1.120   1.120   1.280   1.280   1.1.1.  1.1.1.  1.600   1.600   1.760    1.280   1.120   1.280   1.1.1.  1.1.1.
Oros. operating
Inooi'.            I1,21.9     11.,249 14.,20.  I6,1.09  16,937  18,217  20,01.2  21,866  21,003  21,888  23,136  21.,516  26,133  27,909  29,290  31,003  37,986  1.1,1.0  1.1,970  1.0,389  39,892
goon-elo Return Calooltioul'
Proas, WlE. of
Production     11.24.9     11.,z 21.1.24.9  16.1.09  16,937  18,217  20,01.2  21,866  21,003  21,888  23,136  21.52.6 26,133  27,909  29,29  31,003  37,986  1.1,1.9  1.1,970 1.0,389  39,891
OPeO-tinig
bpenditure      1.787       1.,787  1.,78   9,269   9,81.1  6,533   6,788   7,013   7,1.1.   7,890   8,399   8,890   9,375   9,930  10,52-3 11,11.5 '11,378  11,378  11,378  11,378  11,378
Net Value of
Production      9.162       9,1.62  9,162  11.21.0  11,093  11,681. 13,299  I1.,821. 13,996  13,998  IL.,781  19,666  16,798 17,979  18,768  19,898  26,609  30,113  30,193  29,008  28,511.
Increased Bet Value
of production               -        -      1,678   1,631   2,222   3,792   9.361   L.,093  1.,536   9,319   6,201.  7,296   8,117   9,309  10,396  17,11.6  20,990  20,730  19,51.5  19,051
Value of Stock
Increase                             -       -       -       -       -                                                                                                               5 9.550
On-Parm Izvest-
ant                        (8.856)(12.177)(15.129)   (738)
N,t Cash Plo                (8,856) 12.2177)(1.3A5.1)   893   2,222   3,792   9,361   1.,093  1.,536   9,319   6,201   7,296   8,117   9,309  10,386  17,116   20,990  20,730  19,91.9  78,601
I/  The net cash 2. nob talrAd implies a rate Of retu.rf to thseconomy5 of ,.s percent.
NOTE1, All valu.e amounts In. this Annex are In5 U.S.$ eqoivalent..



Annex 11
Page 1
BRAZTh - LIVESTOCK DEYZLOPMZNT PROJET
On Farm Investments and Operating Costs
I. Farm Model 1 (Rio Grande do Sul)
Number of farms         :  750
Size of herd           : 1,100 cattle and 2,400 sheep
Breeding aninals        : 400 cows and 1,000 ewes
Average diie'bf farm    : 2,000 hectares
A. Investment Program
Per Farm
Unit Cost    Total Cost
Unit       Qaantit'       US$           US$
1. Pasture Establishment . . . . .       Ha.          300          70.00      21,000
2. Pasture Maintenance . . . . . .      Ha.           300          16.00       4,800
3. Fencing . . . .     . . . . . . .     Km.           14         400.00       5,600
4. Water Facilitiest
Dams  . . . ; . . . . . . . .      No.            1         500.00         500
Windmills, troughs, pipes . .      No.            1       2,300.00       2,300
5. Trench Silo . . . . . . .             No.            1         200.00         200
6.  Farm Machinery (See Note below)
45/50 UP Tractor. . . . . . .     No.           113       6,600.00       2,200
Ploh'        h . . . . . . . . . . .  No.       1/3         600.00         200
Offeot Disc  ... .. . . . .       No.           1/3       1,200.00         400
Disc Harrow . . . . . ... .       No.           1/3         600.00         200
Forage Harvester. . . . . . .      No.          113       1,200.00         400
Rotary Mower. . . . . . . . .      No.          1/3       1,800.00         600
Sod Seder* . . . . . . .   . .    No.           1/3       1,800.00         600
Combine Drill . n l. ... . . .    No.             1         600.00         600
T'OTAL00000000                                         39,6oo
Add: Approximately 5% for inflationary increases not
compensated in CR/$ value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,980
TOTAL                     . . . . . . . . . . . .      41,580
Add:  Approxdmately 10% for contingencies .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       4,220
GRAND  TOTAL   . . . . . .     . . . . . .. .        . ..45.800
B. Operating Costs (US$)
Pro-Development           Post-Development B
1. Labour1/ . . . . . . . . . .      3,3n0                        5,160
2. Veterinary Expenses2/ . . .       2,370                        3,630
3. Salt and Fip.ral/ . ..             1,330                       3,630
4. Maintenancev   . . . . . . .          70                       1,100
5. Shearing and CrutchPng_/. *          580                         900
6. Fuel   including oil/ . *            240                         800
7. Pasture Malntenancei/ . . .          -                         3,620
8. Other Expenses. . . . . . .           70                         860
o.020                      19,700
1/ One Foreman 0 $720 per year. One tractor driver @ $480 per year. 4 Cowboys O $360
Tncreasing to 8. 4 Casual labourers for 3 months 0 $30 per month, increasing to 8,
plus 1 General hand 0 $360 per year. 2/ Including Vaccines, dipping materials, worm
drenches, etc. 0 $1.00 per animal unit, increasing to $1.50 per animal unit, as overall
animal health control program intensifies. 3/ At $1.00 per animal unit before develop-
ment, increasing to $1.50 per head. 4/ Maintenance on fences, water facilities and
silo, at 5% of construction cost. Maintenance on machinery at 15% of capital cost.
5/ At $25 per 100 sheep shorn. 6/ At $0.30 per hour of tractor work, for silage making,
pasture maintenance after first Fear following eatablishment, and general farm work.
7/ Includes fertilizer, oversowing, weeding, etc.
f/ Based on the ma-lagm stocking rate possible as a result of the investment. Operating
costs gradually go up and reach this annual rate by the llth year. NOTEs Quantity
investment requirements for the model farm may include fractions for items required only
by a share of participating farmers in the area.



Annex 13.
Page 2
BRAZIL - LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJET
On Farm Investments and Operating Costs
II. Farm Model 2 (Sao Paulo and Parana)
Number of farms       : 150
Size of herd          : 800 cattle
Breeding animals      I 320 cows
Average size of farm  : 2,000 hectares
A. Investment Program
Unit Cost    Total Cost
Unit       Quantity       US$         US$
1. Land Clearance including
soil preparation . . . . . .     Ha.          400          35.00      1h,000
2. Pasture Establishment. . . . .      Ha.          400           9.00       3,600
3. Pasture Maintenance. . . . . .      Ha.          400           2.50       1,000
L. Fencing. . . . . . . . . ...        Km.           16         370.00       5,920
5. Water Facilities: (See Note below)
Dams . . . . , . . . . . . .     No.          1/4       1,200.00         300
Pumps & piping . . . . . . .      No.         1/L         L00.00         100
6. Farm Machinery: (See Note below)
45/50 BP Tractor . . . . . .      No.         1/2       6,600.00       3,300
Plough . . . . . . . . . . .     No.          1/3         600.00         200
7. House(See Note below). . . . .      No.          1/5       2,000.00         0O0
8.  Bulls. . . . . . . . . . . . .    Head            5         LOO.oo       2,000
9. Breeding Cows. . . . . . . . .     Head           50          92.00       4,600
TOTAL      .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      35,4.20
Add:  Approximately 5% for inflationary increases not
compensated in Cr/$ value .1,771
TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    37,191
Add: Approximately 10% for contingencie. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       3,809
GRAND TOTAL                                                  Lii,000
B. Operating Costs (US$)
Pre-Developi6ent           Post-Development 7/
1. Labour Y/ . . . . . . . .   ~  2,520'                      5,400
2.  Pasture Maintenance ./*         500                       1,000
3.  Fuel    .. .  .  .. .            50                       1,350
L. Veterinary Expense t/. .         b70                       1,600
5. Salt and Minerals_ ..   . .      800                       2,o00
6. Maintenance /. . . . . .         500                       2,880
7. Other Expenses . . . . .         580                       2,000
5,bo20                     10,(
1/ Foreman @ $720 - 1. Cowboys O $360 - 3 increasing to 8. Casuals @ $30 per month
for 6 months; 4 increasing to 10. 2/ Weedicides, purchase of equipment, replanting,
etc. 3/ 1500 hours per year @ $0.30, rising to 4,500 hours. I/ Vaccines and medi-
caments @ $0.60 per animal units increasing to $1.00 per animal unit as health pro-
gram intensifies. 5/ At $1.00 per animal unit rising to $1.50 per animal unit. 6/
5% of capital cost of installations, 15% of capital cost of machinery.
7/ Based on the maximum stocking rate possible as a result of the investment. Operating
costs gradually go up and reach this annual rate by the 10th year. NOTE: Quantity
investment requirements for the model farm may include fractions for items required only
i-n n ahnv. n? ne',+;4;n4 .o+4,no r_fnv,, 4,n +ho o_oon



Annex 11
Page 3
BRAZIL - LIVESTOCK IEVELOPMT PROJECT
On Farm Investments and Operating Costs
III.  Farm Model 3 (Pantanal. Mato Grosso and Araguaia area, Goias)
Number of farms        : 200 in Mato Grosso; 50 in Goias
Size of herd          : 2,300 cattle
Breeding animals       : 920 cows
Average size of farm   : 8,500 hectares
A. Investment Program
Unit Cost     Total Cost
Unit        Quantity        US$           US$
1.  Pasture Establishment . . . .     Ha.            300           25.00        7,500
2. Pasture Maintenance . . . . .      Ha.           300             3.00          900
3. Fencing . . . . . . . . . . .      Km.            25           300.00        7,500
4. Water Facilities:
Dams.            . . . . .      No.             1          500.00           500
Tube well complete  . . . .     No.             2        2,300.00         4,600
5. Farm Machinery: (See Note below)
70/80 HP Tractor  . . . . .     No.          1/10        8,ooo.00           800
Offset Disc Harrow  . . . .     No.             1        1,200.00         1,200
6.  House . . . . . . . . . . . .     No.             1        1,400.00         1,400
7.  Corral. . . . . . . . . . . .     No.             1        1,800.00         1,800
8.  Bulls . . . . . . . . . . . .    Head            50           180.00        9.000
TOTAL  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  35,200
Add: Approximately 5% for inflationary increase not compensated
in Cr/$ value .1,760
TOTAL  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  36,960
Add:  Approximately 10% for contingencies ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       3,610o
GRAND TOTAL                          .4,600
B.  Operating Costs (US$)
Pre-Development             Post-Development _
1.  Labour -  . .  . . . . . . . . .       2,160                         4,56C
2.  Pasturq Maintenance 2/.                 -                              900
3. Fuel =   . . . . . . .    . . . . .                      9001,0
3. Fuel 2i.~~~~~~~~900                                       1,300
1. Veterinary Expensep 4/                    930                         2,300
5.  Sale and Mine,rals /. .1,540                                         3,340
6.  Maintenance .  . . . . . . . .         1,180                         2,100
7. Other Exipenses                           570                         1.650
7,280                       16.15o
1/  1 Foreman @ $720 per year.  4 Cowboys 4 $360 in year 1 increasing to 8 in year 12; 8
Casuals for 4 months O $30 per month post-development.  i/ Weeding, etc.  3/ 3,000 hours
per year 3 $0.30 increasing to 4,300 hours per year.    / Vaccines and other medicaments
$0.60 per animal unit, increasing to $1.00 as health program intensifies. >/ At $1.00
per animal unit increasing to $1.50 per animal unit. 6/ 5% of capital cost of installations
clus l15 of capital cost of machinery.
7/  Based on the maximum stocking rate possible as a result of the investment.   Operating
costs gradually go up and reach this annual rate by the 17th year. NOTE: Quantity
investment requirements for the model farm may include fractions for items required only



Annex 11
Page a
BRAZIL - LIVESTOCK DEELOPMENT PROJECT
On Farm Investments and Operating Costs
IV. Farm Model 4 (Planalto, Mato Orosso and SW-Brasilia areas, Goias)
Number of farms        s 300 in Mato Orosso; 150 in Goias
Size of herd           : 1,300 cattle
Breeding animals       : 520 cows
Average size of farm   : 5,700 hectares
A. Investment Program
Per Farm
Unit Cost     Total Cost
Unit       Quantity        US$           US$
1.  Pasture Establishment . . . .         Ha.          400           34.00     13,600
2.  Pasture Maintenance                  Ha.           100            3.00      1,200
3.  Fencing.. . .                         Km.           20          295.00      5,900
4. Water Facilitiess
Dams . .      .   . ... . .. .      No.             2          500.00      1,000
Windmill, Trough, Pipea   . .       No.             1        2,300.00,     2,300
5. Farm Machinery: (See Note below)
70/80 BP Tractor . . .   . .        No.           1/5        8,000.00     1,b00
Offset Disc Harrow   . .  . .       No.             1        1,200.00     1,230
6.  House . . . . . . . . .. . .         No.             1        l,OO.00      1,4i00
7.  Bulls . . . .. . .                  Head            15          180.00      2,700
TOTAL  . & . . . & . . . .    .      .   .  . . .  . . . .  .  30,900
Add:  Approximately 5% for inflationary increases not
compensated in Cr/$ value.            . . . . .               1,5L5
TO U   ..........................             ............. .  32,S45
Add:  Approximately 10% for contingencies..            . . . . .. ..... .          3,255
GRA<NDTOTAL   ..            ..... .. .  .. ........ . . ..35, 700
B.  operating Costs (US$)
Pre-Developmnt             Post-Development 7/
1.  Labourl/.                          ie10 *" *  Z O-ZsO 
2.  Pasture Maintenance/     *           250                       1,000
3.  Fuel3/. . . * * * * * *              ho5                       1,200
4. Veterinary Expenses4/     .           550                       1,370
5. Salt and Minerals5...                 920                       2,050
6.  Maintenance6/ . .-. . . ,            300                         910
7.  Other Ecpenses   . . . .             500                         840
5,130           -          10,250
1/ 1 Foreman 0 $720.   3 Cowboys 0 $360 increasing to L.   L Casuals for 3 months 0 $30
increasing to 8. 2/ Weeding. 3/ 1,500 hours @ 30 cents increasing to 4,000 hours.
4/ Vaccines and me2icaments § $o.60 per animal unit increasing to $1.00 per animal
unit as disease control program intensifies. 5/ At $1.00 per animal unit rising to
$1.50. 6/ 5% of capital cost of installations7and 15% of capital cost of machinery.
7/ Based-on the maximum stocking rate possible as a result of the investment. Operating
Costs gradually go up and reach this level by the 12th year. NOTE:    Quantity investment
requirenents for the model farm may include fractions for itnes required only by a
share of participating farmers in the area.



Annex 11
Page 5
BRUZIL - LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
On Farm Investments and Operating Costs
V. Farm Model 5 (North Goias)
Number of farms          O 50
Size of herd         : 400 cattle
Breeding animals      : 200 cows
Average size of farm:   10,200 hectares
A. Investment Program
Per Farm
Unit Cost    Total Cost
Unit       Cuantity      US$           US$
1. Land Clearance . . . . . . . .       Ha.         800          20.00     16,000
2. Pasture Establishment  . . . .       Ha.         800           8.00     6,4oo
3.  Pasture Maintenance  . . . . .      Ba.         800           2.00     1,600
4. Fencing. . . . . . . . . . . .       Km.          60         230.00    13,800
5. Water Facilities:
Windmill, trough, pipes . . .      No.           1       2,300.00      2,300
6.  House. . . . . . . . . . . . .      No.           1       1,500.00     1,500
7. Corral . . . . . . . . . . . .       No.           1       2,300.00     2,300
8. Bulls   . . . . .  . . . . . .      Head          20         230.00     4,600
TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . 48,500
Add:  Approximately 5% for inflationary increases not
compensated in Cr/$ value . . . . . . . . . . ; . . .    2,400
TOTAL . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       50,900
Addt Approximately 10% contingencies   . . . . . . . ..5,100
GRANDTOTAL                                                    56,ooo
B. Operating Costs (US$)
Pre-Development          Post-Development 7/
1. Labourl/!. . . . . . . . .                                 2   O,
2. Pasture Maintenance/ . .            200                    1,600
3. Fuel3/. . a  . . . . . . .          200                      220
4. Veterinary ExpenseW/ . .            200                    1,020
5. Salt and Minerals5r. . .            340                    1,530
6. Maintenance6/ . . . . . .           180                      800
7. Other Expenses. . . . . .           200                    1,120
2,040                    9,170
1/ 1 Cowboy a $360 increasing to 1 Foreman @ $720 and 3 Cowboys. 4 Casuals for 3
months X $30 per month increasing to 12 Casuals for 3 months @ $30 per month; 2/
Weeding; 3/ For transport; 4/ Vaccines and medicaments @ $0.60 per animal unit in-
creasing to $1.00 per animaI unit as health program intensifies; 5/ At $1.00 per
animal unit rising to $1.50 per-animal unit; 6/ 5% of capital cost of installations.
7/ Based an the maximum stocking rate possible as a result of the investment.
Operating costs gradually go up and reach this annual rate by the 7th year.



Annex 11
Pag e 6
BRAZIL - LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
On Farm Investments and Operating Costs
VI. Farm Model 6 (South Goias)
Number of farms       : 50
Size of herd          : 1,200 cattle
Breeding animals           400 cows
Average size of farm     1,000 hectares
A. Investment Program
Per Farm
Unit Cost    Total Cost
Unit       Quantity       US$          US$
1. Pasture Establishment . . . .         Ha.          300         30.00      9,000
2.  Pasture Maintenance . . . . .       Ha.           300          4.oo      1,200
3.  Fencing . . . . . . . . . . .        Km.            5        240.00      1,200
4. Water Facilities:
Windmill, trough, pipes. . .        No.            1      2,300.00      2,300
5. 'Farm Machinery: (See Note below)
50/60 HP Tractor . . . . . .        No.          1/3      6,600.00      2,200
Offset Disc Harrow . . . . .        No.            1      1,200.00      1,200
6. House . . . . . . . . . . . .        No.             1        700.00        700
7. Corral (See Note below)              No.           1/2      3,200.00      1,600
8. Bulls . . . . . . . . . . . .        No.            20        230.00      4,600
TOTAL  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24,000
Add: Approximately 5% for inflationary increases not
compensated in Cr/$ value  . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .    1,200
TOTAL  ... . . . ..... .                           ...     25,200
Add: Approximately 10% for contingenc_es   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2,500
GRAND TOTAL             .            ....... . . . . . . . . .   27,700
B. Operating Costs (US$)
Pre-Development           Post-Development 7/
1.  Labour                             ,                        2dO
2. Pasture Maintenance                 boo                        600
3. Fuel                                500                        600
4. Veterinary Expenses                 450                      1,140
5. Salt and Minerals                    760                     1,700
6. Maintenance                         44o                        770
7. Other _cpenses                      500                        815
4, 50                      d,505
1/ 2 Cowiboys @ $360 increasing to 1 Foreman 9 $720 and 4 Cowboys. 4 Casuals for 4 months
4 $30 per month increasing to 6 Casuals for L months. 2/ Weeding, etc. 3/ 1650 hours
4 $0.30 increasing to 2000 hours per year. 4/ Vaccines and medicaments 1 $0.60 per
animal unit increasing to $1.00 per animal unit. 5/ At $1.00 per animal unit increasing
to $1.50. 6/ 5% of capital cost of installations. 15% of capital cost of machinery.
7/ Based on the maximum stocking rate possible as a result of the investment.  Operating
costs gradually go up and reach this level by the 13th year. NOTE: Quantity investment
requirements for the model farm may include fractions for items required only by a share
of participating farmers in the area.



Annex 31
Page 7
BRAZnL - LIVESTOCK DEVZLOPMNDT PROJECT
On Farm Investments and Operating Costs
VII.  Farm Model 7 (Minas Gerais)
Number of Farms        : 100
Size of herd           : 1,000 cattle
Breeding annimals         500 cows
Average size of farm   :4,000 hectares
A. Investment Program
Per Farm
Unit Cost    Total Cost
Unit       Quantity        US$          US$
1.  Land Clearance   . .  . . . .        Ha.           400           35.00     14,000
2.  Pasture Establishment. . . .         Ha.           400           12.00      4,800
3.  Pasture Maintenance. . . . .         Ha.           400            3.00      1,200
4. Fencing..        .......    .         KM.            16          225.00      3,600
5. Water Facilities: (See Note below)
Dams. . . ... . . . . . . .         No.           1/5       1,500.00         300
6.  Farm Machinery: (See Note below)
45/50 HP Tractor. . . . . .         No.           1/3       6,600.00.      2,200
Plough.     . . . . . . .. ..       No.           1/3         600.00         200
Offset Disc Harrow   . . . .        No.           1/3       1,200.00         400
7.  House (See Note below) . . .         No.           1/5       1,500.00         300
8.  Machinery Shed (See Note below)      No.           1/3         300.00         100
9.  Corral(See Note below) . . .         No.           1/4          800.00        200
10.  Bulls  . . . .....      . . .       Head            20          230.00      L,600
TOTAL . . . . . . .                           = . . . * . . . . . . . ... . .  31,900
Add: Approximately 5% for inflationary increases not
comparable in Cr/$ value . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1,600
TO TAL...                ..33,500
Add:  Approximately 10%    for contingencies         .   ..   ........             3,400
GRND TOTAL.    .  . ... . . . . ... . . . .              .       36,500
B. Operating Costs (Us$)
Pre-Developmnent            Post-DeveloDment 7
1.  Labour- . . . . . . . . .         1, e0                        3,4oO
2.  Pasture Maintenance2/ . .           420                       1,200
3.  Fuel3/ . . . .   . . .  .           750                          900
4. Veterinary Enpense4     .   .        510                       1,520
5.  Salt and MiFerals5      . . .       850                        2,280
6. Maintenance°.   . . . . . .          1450                         620
7. Other Bxpenses   . .. .              600                       1 380
1/ 2 Cowboys § $360 per year, increasing to 1 Foreman @ $720 and 5 Cowboys 4 $360.    4
Casuals for 4 months @ $30 increasing to 8 Casuals for 4 months @ $30.    2/ Weeding.  3/
2,500 hours @ $0.30 increasing to 3,000 hours. 4/ Vaccines and medicaments @ $0.60
per animal unit, increasing to $1.00 per animal unit. 5/ At $1.00 per animal unit
rising to $1.50. 6/ 5% of capital cost of installations and 15% of capital cost of
machinery. 7/ Based on the inamimiu stocking rate possible as a result of the investment.
Operating costs gradually go up and reach this level by the 12th year. NOTE: Quantity
investment requirements for the model farm may include fracticns for items required only



AUN 1'
BR8kI. - 12989700 Dpzv,PNTn P00288
CDOWOKIC A17 PDXllCIA ;5RII CZ4 leUaCU
tcna   gcie nmrc,r77jC l     igjtri
Pe                                                  (U.S.$ 000)
Newl-
on,,,t    1       2       3      bj      5      6       7      8       9      10     11      12     13      1L      15     16      17     18      19      20
GROSS VALUE F PRODUCT10ON
Region I
Rio Gr-nde do Sn1            lL,476  1b,598 11,688 19,b16   21,710  20,756  26,801 16,629 27,980 29,702 32,536 37,29L 37,952 37.39L     5,895  36,S17  37,176 37,502  37,27L  36,835  36,925
RMgion 11
S.o P-,lo/Ptrar              2,527   2,527   2,527  2,785   3,028  3,313   3,755  1,275   h,17b  L,820   5,957   7,955  8,160   7,861  7,199   7,533   7,702  7,915   7,797  7,561   7,582
Pwtala.1                      L,15L   1,154  1,151 L,723     h 931  5,137   7,360  6,168   6,901   6,930  7,158   7,131  7,787   8.159  8,300   8,560   8,80b  9,801 1U,02L 11.025 10,83:
Planilto                      h,300   1,300   1,300  1,977   5,159  5,601   7,022  6,183   6,707  7,150   7.Lbb   7,8b7  9,313 1l,223 11,358   11,009 10,722  10,707 10,869 10,966 10,88(
Sob-total                      10,981  10,981  10,991  12,485  13,118 31,351  18,137  16,926  18,082  18,900 20,559  23,236  25,260 27,213  27,157  27,102  27,228  28,153  29,690 29,552  29,295
Rr gion 111
Arguaye Area                  1,038   1,038   1,038  1,181   1,233   1,359  1,810   1,617  1,725   1,732  1,789   1,856  1,917   2,ObO   2,075  2,110   2,201  2,450   2,756   2,756  2,70f
Soathbeet cd   rarilia a       2,150  2,150   2,150  2,188   2,580   2,800  ;,511   3,093  4,353   3,575  3,722   3,927  1,656   5,612   5,679  5,55   5,361  5,35L   5,131   5,183  5,11b
8. Golan                        270     278    (182)  ( 13)    270    135     982  1,228   1,405   1,393  1,36b   1.353  1,3b2   1,3b6  1,351   1,353   1,318  1,352   1,319  1,357   1,357
S. Goio.                        653     653    653     745     769    .793    956    811     91i    993   1,029   1,091  1,136   1,231  1,539   1,533   1,531  1,511   1,511  1,198   1,52C
i.n"S G rais                  1,125   1,125  1,125   1,6b1   1,693  1,822   2,00L  2,187   2,100  2,189   2,311   2.152  2,613   2,751  2,929   3,100  3,798   1lh,9    l,157  1,038  3,985
Sub-tot.1                      5,51L   5,5U  5,084   6,C92   6,5L5  7,209   9,293  8,986   9,501   9,882  10,218  10,678  11,69L 12,983 13,576  13,631  11,239  1l,816  15,207  15,132  15,005
Total                         31,001 31,1 23 30,753  37,9b5 h1,373  12,316  5b,231 12,523 55,563 58,181   63,313  71,208 71,906 77,620 77,628   77,650 78,613  60,771  82,171  81,519 81,229
NET VALlS iF 0R0UR   TION
R8eion I
R-o Grnde do SO1              8,461   8,161  8,161  11,217  12,503  10,376  15,8Lb  12,677  L1,867  15,986  18,203  22,519 23,027 22,669  21,970  21,992 22,251  22,577 12,3L9  21,910  22,00C
Re p on II
SuO Pouln/Parana               1,65L  1,65L   1,651  1,717   1,727  1,729   2,021   2,385  2,388   2,591  3,162   5,160  5,665   5,366  5,005   5,038   5,207  5,150   5,302  5,066   5,067
P nt&.al                      2,698   2.695   2,698  3,919   3,007  3,226   5,117  1,163   1,51l  h1,52   1,587   1,765  5,020  53      5,365  5,519  5,648  6,572   7,791  7,795   7,60b
Planfl o                       2,763  2,763   2,763  3,283   3,268  3,470   4,837  3,839   1,203   1,510  1,679   1,898  6,237   8,118  8,282   7,931   7,616  7,631   7,793  7,891   7,805
Sob-total                      7,115   7,115   7,115  9,919   8,002  8,125  12,008  10,387  11,050  11,19  12,728 15,123  16,922 18,836  18,652  18,491  18,501  19,653  20,88Y  20,752  20,196
Region 7111
k*juya Area                     675     675    675     762     752    807   1,287  1,O9l   1,120   1,113  1,117   1,191  1,255   1,331   1,31l  1,380   1,1l3  1,613   1,9L9   1,919  1,901
Seotbweet and trili. dA-       1,381  1.381   1,381  1,612   1,631,  1,735  2,119   1,919  2,106   2,270  2.339   2,119  3,119   1,071   1,11I  3,967   3.823  3,816   3,996   3.945  3.902
N. Onon                         1776    136    (358)  (277)    (61)    20     539    770     904    935     906   1,252  1,211   1,215   1,253  1,252   1,217  1,251   1,2LE   1,256  1,251
s. Goi-                        1bn     a10     11O    511     511   SL      660    529     583     639    655     765    731     809   1,11b  1,10   1,165  1,086   1 086   1,072  1,095
oina_ Grain                     916     v46     916  1,lb    1,109  1,168   1,326  1,182   1,356   1,12n  1,478   1,567  1,676   1,758  1,877   1,986   2,661  3,011   3,019   2,901  2,851
Sob-tota1                      3,618   3,618   3,081  3.752   3,945  1,231   6,231  5,7h1   6,115   6,357  6,525   7,161  8,022   9,217   9,726  9,693  10,219  1o,807  u.198  11,123  11,00
Total                         19,191  19,191  18,660  23,016 2b,150 23,035  3j,083 28,805 32,097   33,837  37,456 1h,806 b7,971  50,522 50.318  50,176 51,001  53,037  51,hi36 53,785  53,196
VALUE or HERD INCREASE
Region I
Rio 0r-n dA lul
Cattle                         -      -       -      -       -     _       _        _                                                                                               19,121
186.9                          -      -      -       -       -     -       -       -       -       -     -       -       -       -      -       -       -     -        -      -     6,600
Sub-total                         .      -      -       -       -     -       -       -               -                     -       -      -               -     -        -      -     25,721
Region 11
S.n Poulo/Farna                 -       -      -       -      -      -       -       -       -             -       -       -       -     -        -       -     _           _         13,317
Pant-nal                        -      _       -       -      _      _       _       -       -      _      _       _       _       _      _          _      _            -      -        60
Pla-lto                        -      -       _       -      -      _       _       _       _      _      ,         _        _          -_       _       _                           l ,351
Sub-total                        _                                                            -      -      -       -       -          -       -       -      -       -          - _3,128
Region III
Aragumy. Area                                                                                                                                                                          3,91O
South.est ad Brailia Ara        _       _              _                                                   -                                                                    -      37,17
S 0i3 Oi                             -      -               :             :               : -                                   :                      :              :      :      2 096
9      -0 Oer              5.  _       -      _               -     - _        _       _       _          _       -       _       _      -       _       _      _       -      -      S,955
Sub-total                        -      -       -       -      -      -       -       -       -      -      -       -       -       -     -        -       -     -        -     -     22,656
Tota1                            _      -       -       _      _      _      _        _                     -       - _             -     _                      _        -           91,905



ANNEX 12
Serel-
opilent    1        2       3        4        5        6       7        8        9       10       11       12      13       14       15       16      17       18       19      20
ON-FARM INVESTIENT
Region I
Rio Graod. do Sul                -       8,588   10,992  12,710    2,061     -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -        -       -
Region 11
Sao Paulo/Psraoa                 -       1,292    2,152   2,666       62     -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -
P ntanal                         -       2,11    3,268    2,680       81     -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        _        _       -        _       _        _
Pinanlto                                 2,570   3,963    3,963      21-
Sub-total                          _      5,973    9,363    9,287      357     -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -       -        -
Regioo II1
Arguyal AMor                     -        528      812      670       20     -        -       -        _        _       _        _        -       -        -        _       _        _        _       _        -
s.W. .id Brasili. Are-           -       1,285    1,981   1,981      107
N. Goise                         -        676    1,064    1,20I       56     -        -       -        _        _       _        _       -        _        -        _       _        _        _       _        _
s.Ouia:                                    0o2     512      429       62     -        -       -                 -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -
Nina, GritS                               886    1,218    1,513      738
Sob-total                                  3,577   5,587    5,797      298     _        _
Total                                     18,138   25,942  27,79b    2,716     -        _       _        _
CASH FLOW
GORSS OF ADIIRATIVE EXPENII IRES
Region I
Rio Crads do Sul                        (8,588) (10,992)  (9,953)  1,981    1,915    7,383   4,216    6,6O7    7,523   9,763   16,058   16,o96  16,O0   13,509   13,532   13,790  16,117   13,888  13,669   39,260
RNgion II
S.o Paulo/Psraoa                        (1,292)  (2,152)  (2,581)     12       75     371      731      735     851    1,608    3,807   6,012    3,712    3,351    3,385   3,553    3,796   3,649    3,612   16,750
P.nt,nal                                (2,111)  (3,268)  (2,329)    228      528   2,669   1i,65     1,816    1,756   1,889    2 067   2,322    2.626    2,667    2,821   2,950    3,873   5,096    5,097   20,665
Plnualto                                (2,570)  (3,963)  (3,662)    291      707    2,076   1,076    1,66O    1,777   1,9i6    2,135   3,675    5,385    5,519    5,171   6,886    6,869   5,030    5,128   19,393
Sub-total                                 (5,973)  (9,363)  (8,352)    531    1,310    6,896   3,272    3,991    6,382   5,613    8,009   9,809   11,721   61,537   11,377  11,387   12,538  13,775   13,637   56,808
Region 11E
Aragusys An.                             (528)    (812)    (582)      57     132      612      366      b56     h38      472      517     581      656      667     705      738      968   1,276    1,276    5 166
S.W1. and Brasilia Areas                (1 285)  (1,981)  (1,721)    145      3564   1,037     538      720      889     958    1,06    1,737    2,693    2,760    2,586   2,662    2,636   2,515    2,566    9,697
N. Goias                                 (676)  (1 598)  (1,657)    (293)    (156)    363      596      771     759      729      718     707      711      719      718     713     717      714      722    6,206
S. Guise                                 (602)    (512)    (358)      29       63      220      89      162     199      215      265     290      369      673      668     665      666     665      632    2,750
rioa, Gerie                              (886)  (1,218)  (1,365)      89      222     379      536      6o9     456      532      620     730      812      931   i,Obo    1,715    2,055   2,073    1,955    7,860
Sub-total                                 (3,577)  (6,121)  (5,663)     27      615    2,611   2,123    2,696    2,739   2,906    3,187   6,665    5,261    5,750    5,717   6,273    6,820    7,221   7,167   29,679
Total                                   (18,138) (26,176) (23,968)   2,539    3,860  16,888    9,611   12,896   16,6b6  18,262   25,256  27,968   30,970   30,796   30,626  31,650   33,675  36,886   36,233 125,767
CASH FLPi
NET OF ADMIRTUYVE 5XPE11 7IURES
Region I
tros, Ctak Flov                        (8 588) (10,992)  (9,953)   1,981    1,915   7,383    6,216    6,6O7   7,523    9,763   14,058  16,094   16,008   13,509  13,532   13,790   16,117  13,888   13,669   39,260
AdFiniotratle  Fcpeoditurne- /             (151)   (227)    (392)    (110)     (97)    (101)   -
Net Casn Flmv                          (8,739) (11,219) (10,365)   1,871    1,818   7,282    6,216    6,h07    7,523   9,763   16,058  1b,096   S6,O,8   13,509   13,532  13,790   I6I,67  13,888   13,469   39,260
Region It
Iron, Cash Flov                        (5 973)  (9,363)  (8,352)     531    1,310   b,896    3,272    3,991   6,382    5,613    8,009   9,809   11,721   11,537   11,377  11,387   12,538  13,775   13,637   56,806
Adetin tr ti-e Epeodicture./                169)    (239)    (386)     (99)     (86)    (89)    -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -
Net Cash Flov                          (6,162)  (9,602)  (8,738)     432    1,226   6,805    3,272    3,991   6,382    5,613    8,009   9,809   U,721    11,537   61,377  11,387   12,538  13,775   13,637   56,808
Region INI
Iroon Cesh Flon                        (3 577) (6,121) (5,663)        27      615    2,611   2,123    2,696    2,739   2,906    3,187   6,045    5,261    5,750   5,717    6,273    6,820   7,221    7,167   29,679
Adeioiotratite E-peotiture-                1121)    (165)    (290)     (78)     (66)    (66)    -        -       -        -        _   -            -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -
Net Cank Flov                          (3,698)  (6,286)  (5,953)     (51)     551    2,565   2,123    2,696    2,739   2,906    3,187  b6O,5     5,261    5,750   5,717    6,273    6,820   7,221    7,167   29,679
Totl
Oron, Cash Flo                       (18 138) (26 676) (23,968)   2,539    3,860   16,888   9,611   12,896  16,666   18,262   25,256  27,968   30,970   30,796  30,626   31,650   33,675  36,886   36,233 125,767
Adeini,trutiue uEndittrns-/                 509)    (801)  (1,236)    (307)    (265)   (276)    -        -
Net unk Flov3/F                       (18,667) (27,277) (25,202)   2,232    3,575  I1,612    9,611   12,896   16,666  18,262   25,256  27,968   30,970   30,796   30,626  31,650   33,675  36,88h   36,233 125,767
1/ Pull coot of technical o-rvicee finooced under the Project for y-aro I to 3; 30% of the coot of techkiccl neri-ee. fi-ncod fur yearn 6 to 6. RNginl ca.k floss do not includn NRtionl Honorary Ctooision  npendditre
2/ The oggreg-gt cash fli  include  National Honorary co-s'lioton en-lt-ree.
yThe rota of return on the i-besteet in 18 pereont.



B. Financial Return Calculation
(U.S.$ OO0)
Pre-
Devel
opmant     1       2      3       4       5       6      7       8       9       10      11      12     13      lb      15      16      17      18      19     20
Net Operating Income         19,19b  19,194  18,660  23,018 -24,b0S  23,035 34,083  28,805 32,087  33,837  37,456 b4,806 47,971 50,522    50,3h8  50,176 51,001  53,037  S4,b36  53,785  53,496
Value of Herd Increase             -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -           -       -       -       -              -       -       -    9105
19,19 I; IB,6     co 23,018      2445 23,035 34,0H3   ~5      32,0H7  Jl1J7   37;1;5 1iZ      1,7,91;~       50s3I4   50,76 5Iv      53,037 54,36 5;EglS3,0I
Taxes                     (2.879) LB!) (2.799) (3,453) (3.668) (31,456) (5.112) (b.321) (4,813) (s.076) (5.618) (6.721) (7.196) (7.578) (7,552) (7,526) (7,65o) (7.956) (.165) (8.068)(21.795)
Income, net of taxes,
before debt service       16,315  16,315  15,861  19,565  20,782  19,579 28,971  24,b84  27,274  28,761  31,838  38,085 40,775  42,944 42,796 42,650   43,351  45,081  46,271  45,717 .23,506
Incremental Net Income                 -      (b45) 3,250    11,b67  3,264 12,656   8,169  1U,959  12,b.6  15,523  21,770 2h,h60 26,629   26,081  26,335  27,036  28,766 29,956  29,402 107,191
Farmers I own Investment            (3,628) (5,188) (5,559)   (543)   -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -
Debt Service                           -    (1       1)  ) (4,687) (b.042) (5,712) (8.668)(11 756) (11 1o8)(10 656) (6,888) 12,111) 124L5) *6 017) (3.281)  (272)
3,T27) (6;539) (8,674) (5L,230) TM   )    (5,712) f(1*,766fl-756) (f W)    ) (9,b   ) (9,161) 0,35      017) Br)0(272) -1-                      -      -
Net Cash Flow/                      (3,628) (6.993)) (5,21) _(76'3) _(778) (5,518)   (499)   (797)  1,038  1,,864  11,882  15,34S9  3,294  20,464 23,254  26,764  26,766  29,956  29,1402 1U7 191
Cumulative Net Cash Flow             (3,628)(10,621)(16,045) (16808)(6,586)1(23,603)(24,400)(23 362)(18 498)         616)  8.733  27,027  47.1.91 7071    97,509 126275    6231 185.633 29282
Assumptions:  (1) For purposes of this calculation, taxes are based on net operating income. The rate chosen (15%) corresponds to the typical tax burden currently carried by livestock
farmers in the Project area.
(2) Debt service is calculated on the basis of 20% contribution from farmers' own resources. The calculation is based on the assumptions of Annex 7.
1/ The rate of return on the farmer's contribution, calculated on the basis of the net cash flow, is 22%.



BRAZIL - LIVESTOCK DEVEIOFP   T PROJECT
Production fran Project Farms
(000 head)
REGION  I (750 fanMs)     REGION II (650 farms)     REGION III (400 fanas)     MTOTL   (1,ffOO faine)
Pre-         Post-        Pro-         Post_        Pre-          Post-        Pre-         Poat-
Developnent Development Developuent Developnent Development Development Development Development
A. CATTLE STOCK
Breeding Cove          300           398          394          566          204          307          898        1,2n1
Bulls                   15            20           36           49           18           22           69           91
Weanlings              150           288          180          384           90          200          420          872
Heifers                131           271          162          371           80          194          373          836
Steers                 248           271          170          220           85          108          503          599
Tbtal                  8441       1,248          942        1,591           477          831        2,263        3,669
A.U.                   640           867         698         1,109          354          580        1,692        2,556
B. SHEEP STOCK
Breeding Ewes          720         1,500           -            -                         -           720        1,500
Reas                     23          45           -             _-                        -            23           45
Ewe Hoggets            216          600           -             -            -            -           216          600
Wether Hoggets          216          600           -            -            -            -           216          600
Wethers                625            -            _-                                     -           625           -
Total                1,800        2,745                                      -            -         1,800        2,745
A.U.                   360          549           -             _-                        -           360          549
C. OUTPUT
Cow Sales               40           61            46           86           26           48          U12          195
HeifersSales              3           59            4           73            2           36            9          168
Lean Steers Sales       -            -            60           142-          34           87           94          229
Fat Steers Sales        56           133           16           41            4            8           76          182
Total                   99          253          126           342           66          179          291          774
Net Sheep Sales        276         1,030           -            -            -            -           276        1,030
Wool Sales (tons)    3,836         8,o50           -            -            -            -         4,500        8,050
D. PRODUCTIVITY
Weaning Rate(%)          50           75           45           68           44           65           47           69
Take-off Rate (%)       13           26           13            40           14           22           13           21
Carrying Capacity
(A.u./ha)           0.67         0.9h         0.19         0.31         0.16          0.26         0.28         0.42 
Kg wool/sheep          2.5           3.0          _-                                      -           2.5          3.0



MAP I
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
REGION I
,.O OUI   NTO 01
N   MARIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RGO AE!BUDR
JANUARY1I7                                                                   O -  193
2/ t 8\° EIRA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALEGRE/
I   f            '°                            S            toStUA/tA 
DO SUL)                            /, C
S ..lo/
RAZIL/                               XzSAL                SIE
PROJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~               v 10                  20DE405
JANUARY~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~0                                        REIN RA  OUDR
JANUARY 1967                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD - 1939



MAP U
AZIL,A
AREA~~~~~~RGUI
M     A   T   TI i    P    T         o ;RETO           (
z *_..*%m -w    DOURADOSP'PU TE 
ARRT
G                                         A' PA -  AN
._._  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                            I    A  z
e *§@  STATE BOUNDARIES   j>/            /  e  zBAI
-    .ROADS              v          A   1   '   LIVESTOCK PROJECT
*++4-4-  RAILWAYS                            I  R  a
0  PROJECT HEADQUARTERS
-REGION4AREA =                                    g . .\/) SCALE (MILES)
K'<Z\zS  REGIONAREAD rAS             RETO
\R SANTA CATADIA
JANUARY 1967         '                                        B1RD - 1941



