Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17778-HO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 33.6 MILLION
(US$45 million equivalent)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FORA
FOURTH SOCIAL fNVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
June 19, 1998
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange Rate Effective May 1998
Currency Unit = Honduran Lempira (HNL)
US$1.00 = HN$13.31 Lempiras
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CMU              Country Management Unit
EU               European Union
FHIS             Honduran Social Investment Fund (Fondo Hondureno de Inversi6n Social)
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GIS              Geographical Information System
GNP              Gross National Product
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
IDA              International Development Association
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
IHNFA            Honduran Institute for Children and Families (Instituto Hondureno de la Niniez y la -Familia)
ILO              International Labor Organization
LPPP             Indigenous Peoples Participation Plan
KfW              German Credit Institute for Reconstruction (Kreditanstaltfiur Wiederaujbau)
LACI             Loan Administration Change Initiative
LIB              Limited International Bidding
LIL              Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E              Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS              Management Information System
NCB              National Competitive Bidding
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
OPEC             Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
PASI             Informal Sector Assistance Program (Programa de Apoyo al Sector Informal)
PIP              Project Implementation Plan
PRAF             Family Assistance Program
PROCATMER    Credit and Technical Assistance Program for Rural Micro-Enterprise (Programa de Credito y Asistenci
Tecnica a la Microempresa Rural)
RWSN-CA          Rural Water and Sanitation Network for Central America
SANAA            National Water Authority (Servicio Aut6nomo Nacional de Acueductosy Alcantarillados)
SIDA             Swedish International Development Agency
SIF              Social Investment Fund
TA               Technical Assistance
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF           United Nations Children's Fund
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
WB               The World Bank
Vice President:    S. Javed Burki
Country Director:    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:   Xavier Coll (Acting)
Task Managers:     David Warren/Willem Struben



Honduras
Fourth Social Investment Fund
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target pop1ilation
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses    --
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
F. Sustuinability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Economic Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Social Assessment and Indigenous Peoples Participation Plan
Annex 10.    History and Achievements of FHIS
Annex 11.    Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 12.    Honduras at a Glance
Maps         Location of Ethnic Groups
FHIS Poverty Map



Project Appais Doument
County: Honduras
Honduras
Fourth Social Investment Fund
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Central America
Date: June 19, 1998                            Task Managers: David Warren/Willem Struben (LCSHD)
Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo (LCC2C)  Sector Director: Xavier Coll (LCSHD, Acting)
Project ID: 48651      Sector: Social          Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan   Program of Targeted Intervention:   [XI Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data                [  Loan       [XI Credit      [  Guarantee      [I Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (SDRm/US$m): SDR33.6 million / US$45 million
Proposed terms:                   [X1  Multicurrency      []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10 [I         Standard Variable  [   Fixed        [     LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0-0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financirg plan (US$m):
Source                         Local                Foreign            Total
Governmuent                                      18.5                    -              18.5
Cofinanciers
KfW                                            7.8                   2.2            10.0
IDB                                 ..        39.2                  10.8            50.0
OPEC                                           3.9                   1.1             5.0
SIDA                                           6.2                   1.8             8.0
IDA                                           35.1                   9.9            45.0
Total         110.7                  25.8           136.5
Borrower: Republic of Honduras
Responsible agency: Fondo Hondurefio de Inversi6n Social (FHIS)
Estimated disbursements (IDA FY/US$M):    1999      2000      2001       2002
Annual  6.5        16.1      16.6        5.8
Cumulative   6.5      22.6       39.2       45.0
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 10/30/98
Expected closing date: 2/28/02



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page I
Country: Honduras                                               Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The proposed project would continue IDA's support for the successful FIRS program, aiming to increase
access among the poor to small-scale social and economic infrastructure in accordance with local
development priorities; to develop social assistance programs for disadvantaged groups; and to contribute
to the prospects for sustainability of such investments.
Key Indicators:
*  increases in rates of access to and utilization of social and economic infrastructure, and social
assistance programs;
*  evidence that investments are targeted to the poor;
*  evidence that investments reflect the priorities of the targeted communities and beneficiaries; and
* evidence that subprojects are in operation and maintained for a reasonable number of years, depending
on subproject type.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: P-5923-HO            Date of latest CAS discussion: August 1993
(Preparation of a new CAS is underway; Board presentation is expected in the third quarter of FY99.)
The proposed project would support the CAS objectives of improving living conditions and development
opportunities among the poor. Specifically, it would: (i) help expand and more efficiently distribute
priority public sector services, particularly in health, education, water and sanitation, and economic
infrastructure, thereby contributing to improved access to basic social services and productive
opportunities; and (ii) address priority social needs through special programs for disadvantaged and
underserved groups, including street children, women, the elderly and handicapped, and ethnic minorities.
The proposed project would emphasize and rely significantly on the participation of community
organizations and local governments to ensure that investments represent local priorities and that prospects
for sustainability are maximized.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Honduras ranks among the least developed countries in the Western Hemisphere. Although economic
progress has been made over the last two decades, per capita GNP in 1995 remained low at an estimated
$600. Approximately one third of the population lives in extreme poverty, and about 78 percent of the
poor live in rural areas. The poorest quintile of the population receives only 3.8 percent of total income.
Poor social indicators include an adult illiteracy rate of 27 percent, a global fertility rate of 4.9 per woman
of child bearing age, an infant mortality rate of 36 per 1,000 births, and 19 percent of children under age 5
suffering from malnutrition. Although about three-quarters of the population has access to water and
sanitation systems, these percentages are lower in rural areas, and poor water quality often limits the
benefits of increased access.'
The Governnent's strategy focuses on expanding and improving the quality of primary services in health,
nutrition, education, water and sanitation, and on targeting the poor. Public social sector expenditures,
which have averaged about 7.5 percent of GDP between 1990 and 1996, have been channeled to programs
designed to expand health care and education facilities and to improve the scope and quality of health and
' World Development Indicators, World Bank, Washington, DC, 1997. Trends in Developing Countries, World
Bank, 1996. "Honduras: Improving Access, Efficiency, and Quality of Care in the Health Care Sector", World
Barik Report No. 17008-HO, October 31, 1997.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 2
Country: Honduras                                               Fourth Social Investmnent Fund Project
education services. A key instrument to support the Government's efforts has been the Honduran Social
Investment Fund (FHIS), first established in 1990 to finance small-scale investments targeted at the poor.
Given its good performance and the slow speed of modernization / reformn in the line ministries, FHIS has
become the principal, and in some cases the only government instrument for financing small scale civil
works projects in the social sectors. In order to support the Government's strategy to decentralize
investment decision-making to the level of the municipalities (a strategy which includes a transfer of five
percent of Government revenues to municipalities), FHIS's mandate was expanded in 1995 to include
greater emphasis on community participation, as well as coordination with and strengthening of local
governments. FHIS's current enabling law provides for a lifespan until 2002. Over the past eight years,
FHIS has channeled over US$180 million for priority investments in education, health, water and
sanitation, economic infrastructure, social assistance, and the environment. IDA has supported FHIS
through three credits; under the ongoing SIF HI project, implementation and disbursements are runmning
about 25 percent ahead of schedule, reflecting FHIS' growing institutional capacity. Investments have
been spread throughout the country, and have been provided in relatively greater (and growing) proportions
to the poorest, and to rural, communities. Between 1990 and 1996, FIRS investments represented 0.7
percent of total GDP, about 9 percent of public social sector expenditures, and virtually all of the capital
expenditures in the education and health subsectors. (See Annex 10.)
Notwithstanding progress in improving social indicators in recent decades, further investment is required to
improve the coverage and quality of basic social and economic infrastructure. Results of an analysis of
infrastructure needs in the education, health, water and sanitation sectors show that the investment required
merely to maintain or to expand modestly current coverage rates in these sectors (i.e., in the face of a
population growing at 2-3 percent annually) would be about $45 million annually over the next four years.
Continued disparities in terms of access, utilization, and quality of social services and social and economic
infrastructure, between poor and less-poor communities, and between rural and urban areas, make it
essential to ensure that scarce resources for such investments are distributed equitably, that they provide
response to the highest priority demands, and that projects, once completed, are sustained in operating
condition for as long as possible.
Other issues that inhibit improvements in living conditions and development opportunities among the poor
include the following:
Inadequate attention to social assista?kce programs. Since its inception in 1990, FHIS has played a
central role in the Government's "social safety net", and has included support for a number of social
assistance type subprojects, including health and hygiene training, nutrition, early childhood education, and
attention to special disadvantaged groups (street children, elderly, disabled, and indigenous groups).
Although FHIS's mandate and character were altered, starting in 1994, from a focus on short-term social
compensation to an emphasis on medium-term social investment, FHIS has continued to respond to the
viruala void in financing for social assistance programs by providing financial support to programs
presented or recommended by the Junta de Bienestar Social (a board responsible for providing services to
disadvantaged groups, especially children; the Junta has recently been restructured slightly and renamed
Instituto HondurePlo de la NiAezy la Familia, IHNFA). However, the program has suffered from lack of
direction, as well as from weak technical capacity in FHIIS to evaluate and oversee these social programs.
(See Annex 2.)
Weak management of the water sector. Potable water in Honduras is in very short supply. SANAA, the
national water authority, is weak and concentrates its energies on the major urban systems at the expense of
rural areas. The Ministry of Health has limited resources and is unable to attend to the rural subsector's
increasing demands (although the IDA-assisted Nutrition and Health Project has had a positive, albeit
limited, impact in four of the poorest departments). FHIS has become perhaps the most important player in
attempting to meet the shortfall in the water sector by identifying and building new basic infrastructure
services, and by improving the subproject cycle to ensure higher degrees of training, commitment, and
participation among target communities. However, attention to rural communities' needs for water systems



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 3
Country: Honduras                                               Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
is believed to be constrained, in large part, by a lack of sufficient resources needed to achieve the
economies of scale needed to make investments in rural water systems feasible. Moreover, FHIS is not
designed to provide the management services and follow-up required to ensure the sustainability of these
physical works. (See Annex 2.)
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In essence, this project would be a continuation of IDA's successful programs of support to FHIS under
previous Credits, as documented in an ICR for IDA Credits 2212-HO and 2401-HO (#15755 of May 24,
1996), a Performance Audit Report (#13839 of December 30, 1994) and ongoing supervision reports for
Cr. 2766-HO (including a Mid-Term Review issued in November 1997). The proposed project would
place an increased emphasis on improving the efficiency and equity of resource allocation, subproject
sustainability, and local development/governance.
The project would continue to assist the Government to improve access to and quality of social and
economic infrastructure and social assistance programs for the disadvantaged by financing
improvements / expansion of small-scale basic infrastructure, and investment inputs for social assistance
programs. FHIS's abilities (i) to operate efficiently (operating costs were about 11% during 1997) and on
a massive scale, and (ii) to mobilize and channel the required external funds required for social sector
investments, have led line ministries to use FIRS increasingly as an executing arm for their investment
expenditures, and would make FHIS an appropriate instrument for the proposed project.
FHIS's ability to decentralize decision-making and foster community participation enhances the prospects
for efficient and equitable resource allocation. This would be furthered under the Pilot Program for
Local Institutional Strengthening component of the proposed project. Through allocation of more money to
poorer municipalities and proactive promotion efforts in poorer communities, FIHIS has and will continue
to promote equity in public spending. The proposed project would further increase local participation in
planning and other stages of the subproject cycle, thereby increasing the likelihood that subprojects
financed truly reflect local priorities; this would in turn enhance allocation efficiency and utilization of
social sector investments. Furthermore, participation in planning and implementation could lead to more
creative utilization / mobilization of potential resources from both local governments and communities.
A major emphasis of the new operation is ta explore ways of further improving the sustainability of
subprojects. Beyond consolidating FIHS's past efforts to improve the quality of finished subprojects, to
provide appropriate training to user groups, and to require adequate commitments and contributions from
beneficiaries and other stakeholders, the project would aim to lay the groundwork for a shift in emphasis
from central government to local agents as the locus of subproject maintenance. The project would not
eliminate the mechanisms of coordination with line ministries that were established under previous
operations. However, the role of local agents appears to be critical, since the sector ministries that are
nominally responsible for operations and nmaintenance of social infrastructure have little or no budgets
available for routine and preventive maintenance expenditures, let alone for rehabilitation. In particular,
the project would emphasize the role of local governments; for although communities are often capable of
carrying out minor maintenance activities (such as cleaning or painting), they often lack financial resources
and/or technical expertise for larger repairs. Moreover, external supervision is also necessary to ensure
appropriate maintenance by communities. According to a study conducted as part of the Institutional
Strengthening component of the SIF III (Cr. 2766-HO) project, in many cases, municipalities have already
been finding ways to pay for routine maintenance expenditures and even operating costs, such as staff
salaries, using resource transfers and other local revenues. The proposed project would further explore the
potentials for capitalizing on municipal involvement in maintenance, and would develop and test practical
mechanisms for encouraging and enabling municipalities to increase their institutional, technical, and
financial capacities to ensure better sustainability of FFIIS-financed investments.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 4
Country: Honduras                                                Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
The proposed project would continue support for FHIS's financing of social assistance programs. To
improve attention to the social assistance sector, to provide improved guidance regarding the evaluation
and oversight of FHIS's social assistance subprojects, and to increase the transparency and efficiency with
which priority programs are identified, the project would establish an ad-hoc Steering Committee,
comprised initially of representatives of Government and NGOs, to advise FHIS on priorities for financing,
operational policies, and technical aspects of social assistance projects. The creation of this Committee has
been recommended and agreed to by numerous stakeholders in the social assistance sector, including FHIS,
IHNFA, and NGOs.
To improve access, quality, and sustainability in the rural water sector, and at the same time provide an
opportunity to learn lessons regarding potentials for improving sector management, the proposed
project would, under the Pilot Program to Strengthen Community and Rural Water Systems component,
provide complementary financing in several municipalities, in order to enable them to achieve the
economies of scale needed to make investments in rural water systems feasible. The component's design
would emphasize a high degree of consumer demand and community control in the subproject process, and
in the interest of simplicity, would respect the same fundamental rules and operating procedures as for
other FHIS subprojects. The component would also provide for the formation of a forum of stakeholders,
including FHIS, Ministry of Health, SANAA, and other agencies active in the sector, to monitor and make
recommendations regarding the component's implementation, and to draw, discuss, and act on lessons
generated under this pilot component.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                                   Cate,on       Cost Incl.    % of   IDA-    % of IDA
Contingencies  Total  financing  financing
1. SubprojectFinancing. Thiscomponent       Physical,      112.4      82%      37.5    83%
would provide financing for a wide range of  Institution-
small-scale social and economic infrastructure  Building
subprojects, as well as for special programs for
disadvantaged population groups (including a
special program targeted at indigenous
communities). Subproject proposals would be
identified by beneficiaries and/or their
representatives.
2. Pilot Program for Local Institutional   Institution       1.3      1%        1.1    2%
Strengthening. In light of the important and  Building
increasing role that communities and local
governments have played in FMIlS's strategy to
ensure local participation in planning,
implementing, and sustaining FHIS-financed
investments, this component would aim to
develop, test, and draw lessons about
mechanisms for encouraging and enabling
communities and local governments to work
together more effectively, and in (better)
coordination with stakeholders at the local,
regional, and national levels. The component
would cover three interrelated aspects: (a)
participatory local planning; (b) preventive



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 5
Country: Honduras                                                  Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Component                                    Cateaor       Cost Incl.    % of   IDA-    % of IDA
(cont . )                                                Contingencies  Total  financing  financing
maintenance; and (c) transfer of (some) functions
and responsibilities for subproject processing
from FHIS to municipalities and communities.
3. Pilot Program to Strengthen Community     Physical,        3.5       3%        3.4    8%
and Rural Water Systems. This component     Institution
would provide technical assistance and       Building
supplemental subproject financing to: (a) develop
and test innovative methodologies and creative
partnerships, aimed at improving attention to
rural communities' needs for water systems, and
(b) improve sectoral coordination in the hopes
that this will lead to improved provision of
technical assistance, supervision, and follow-up
of O&M of rural water systems, and potentially
lay the groundwork for improved attention to the
water sector in the future.
4. Project Management including: FHIS      Management        19.3       14%       3.0    7%
operating costs, institutional strengthening,  Institution
equipment and vehicles, external auditing,   Building
monitoring and evaluation.
_   Total         136.5       100     45.0    100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The existing policy and institutional framework does not inhibit project viability and sustainability. During
the February 1998 pre-appraisal mission, confirmation was received from the new Government regarding
the congruence of the Project's basic objectives and strategy with national plans for poverty alleviation,
social sector and local/municipal development. Since one of the aims of the Pilot Program for Local
Institutional Strengthening is to generate lessons, it is possible that some policy, legal, and institutional
reforms may be identified during implementation to enhance the framework of coordination, support and
follow-up among actors involved in local development, and to help local governments assume greater
administrative, technical and financial responsibility for local investments on a sustained basis. Under the
Social Assistance subcomponent and the Pilot Program to Strengthen Community and Rural Water
Systems component, steering committees would be established to provide additional technical guidance for
each subprogram, to advise on the revision/improvement/development of operational procedures for
management of the funds under these subprograms, and to create a locus for possible improvements in
stakeholder coordination in these sectors (see Section D. 1. and Annex 2).
3. Bene.fits and target population:
Benefits. The project will contribute to efficiency, transparency, and equity in social expenditures and
public investment, through allocation and subproject eligibility criteria that favor the poor, decentralization
of decision making, promotion of participatory planning, and coordination between local and central
(sectoral) actors. Financing of priority social and economic infrastructure will contribute to improvements
in (i) access to and quality of social services (water supply, sanitation, health care, education); and
(ii) improved economic development opportunities for beneficiaries. Social assistance programs would
provide special support for disadvantaged population groups, while the proposed Social Assistance



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 6
Country: Honduras                                               Fourth Social Investnent Fund Project
Steering Committee would improve the ability of FHIS to target the highest priority programs, at the same
time enhancing coordination with other sectoral agencies. Likewise, establishment of the proposed
Community and Rural Water Systems Steering Committee would enhance coherent sector governance.
Efforts to ensure that investments are priorities of local communities and to seek up-front commitments and
contributions from potential beneficiaries will help guarantee that there is a sense of local ownership of
investments; this, combined with efforts to train local agents and end-users in operations and maintenance,
to coordinate with sectoral agencies, and to provide incentives and, in some cases, help secure supplemental
financing for maintenance, will enhance the prospects of sustainability of subprojects, which means that
benefit streams will be longer-lasting. Increased participation in planning and implementation, sought
under the Pilot Program for Institutional Strengthening, could lead to leveraging of FHIS funds to generate
more creative utilization / mobilization of potential resources from local governments, communities, and
others. Strengthening of local government capacities to plan, contractlmanage, and sustain development
investments, and to engage a wide array of stakeholders in participatory processes could improve the
foundation for more democratic and sustainable local development in the future.
Target Population. The project's strategy is to enable local agents to make decisions regarding which
communities should receive attention. Within this context, targeting of the poorest communities and
disadvantaged groups (urban and rural, and including indigenous communities) will be fostered through:
(i) ex-ante resource allocation criteria that are based on a recently revised and agreed formula,
incorporating population and poverty indicators and that assign greater amounts of funding per capita to
the poorest municipalities; (ii) self-targeting by type of project; (iii) promotion and assistance to strengthen
participatory local planning and to provide local agents with the best available infornation (including from
FHIS's GIS) on apparent local needs for small-scale social and economic infrastructure needs; and (iv)
establishment of Social Assistance.and Community and Rural Water Systems Steering Committees to
provide guidance to help ensure that the neediest groups and communities are reached.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period. Three years: 1998-2001.
Project Implementation and Coordination. FHIS would be responsible for overall project
implementation and coordination. In general, subprojects would be identified and sponsored by
communities, NGOs, and/or local government representatives, executed by qualified private contractors or
NGOs, and supervised by FHIS. Subject to experiences under the Pilot Program for Local Institutional
Strengthening, certain municipalities, communities, and/or other local agents could assume increased
responsibilities for all or parts of the subproject cycle, with supervision for such involvement provided by
FHIS in coordination with sector agencies, NGOs, and others. Detailed criteria and procedures set out in
FHIS's Operational Manual the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) would govem all aspects of project
management, including ex-ante allocation of funds, criteria for access to funds, evaluation and processing
of subproject proposals, contracting, execution, and supervision of subprojects. The Operational Manual
and PIP could be modified as necessary during project preparation and implementation, subject to
agreement with IDA. To ensure that its activities are consistent with the policies and development
strategies of line agencies and other relevant stakeholders, FHIS has established framework agreements
with the Minstries of Education; Health; Culture, Arts and Sports; and with the Honduran Institute for
Children and the Family (-INFA), and the Association of Honduran Municipalities (AMHON).
Inplementation and inter-institutional coordination under past IDA credits have both been satisfactory.
Project Oversight. FHIS's enabling law permits FHIS to operate relatively free from political
interference, and exempts the institution from normal govenmment budgeting, procurement, and
disbursement regulations. Oversight is provided by a Board of Directors, chaired by the President of the
Republic, and including top government and congressional officials and representatives of the private



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 7
Country: Honduras                                             Fourth Social Investnent Fund Project
sector, cooperatives, and NGOs. The Executive Director, reconfirmed on January 26, 1998, has the rank
of Minister and is a member of the Cabinet.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Requirements: FHIS's financial management system
has been reviewed and found highly satisfactory: this includes adequate staffing in all relevant units; and
satisfactory accounting systems, internal controls and auditing arrangements. Completed audits under the
SIF m project have been submitted in a timely manner, and have found no significant issues. Financial
audits would be carried out by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA; audit reports would be submitted
annually in accordance with IDA standards, and updates, containing the results of concurrent auditing
activities, would be submitted quarterly. As in the past, the quarterly and annual auditors' opinion would
include the results of an "operations audit", including a financial review of subprojects and a physical
inspection of a sample of subprojects in the field. FH1S would also prepare annual progress reports each
April, and annual planning reports each October. In coordination with an IDA financial management
specialist, FHIS has begun to take steps to adapt its financial management systems in line with IDA's new
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), with the intention of establishing FHIS as a model for
LACI implementation in IDA-financed social investment funds. Conversion to LACI-style disbursements
is expected shortly after negotiations (See Annex 6).
Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring of operational performance and program outputs has greatly
improved under the SIF III project. FHIS's principal technical staff meets weekly to discuss a set of 48
key performance indicators and to recommend actions in response to any problems identified. However,
FHIS, like other regional SIFs, still needs to develop a coherent and cost-effective system for impact
evaluation. FHIS and IDA have initiated an impact study, with preliminary results expected by late 1998.
The study will also provide recommendations and baseline data for regular impact monitoring and
evaluation in the future. Under the project, the proposed Monitoring and Evaluation subcomponent would
include financing for an extemal agency(ies) to carry out regular / ongoing beneficiary assessments and
impact monitoring and evaluation. The project would also be subject to regular supervision by IDA staff,
including their participation in annual project implementation reviews.
Co-financing. As has been the case under the SIF I, II and III projects, FHIS is expected to mobilize
significant amounts of extemal co-financing during the project implementation period. KfW, IDB, OPEC,
and SIDA have all indicated a strong likelihood of continued support for FHIS. Nonetheless, since all
external financing expected under the project would be parallel rather than joint, no adverse effects on
implementation would result if any extemal co-financing amounts were to be different from the expected
amounts described in the Project's financial summary (Annex 5).
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The core design of the proposed project is based on the well-tried and successful models of IDA's earlier
programs of support for FHIS under the SIF I, SIF II, and SIF III Projects (Cr. 2212-HO, Cr. 2401-HO,
and Cr. 2766-HO, respectively). As in the past, the Credit Agreement and other Project Documentation
would allow for flexibility so that lessons yet to be learned (including those expected in late 1998 from the
impact evaluation study already underway) could be applied to make improvements in FHIS's operations
during implementation.
As described in Annex 2, the principal altemative to this project would have been to finance stand-alone
sectoral projects in line ministries. This alternative was rejected for a number of reasons. FIHlS has
become the principal, and in some cases the only government instrument for financing small-scale projects
in the social sectors, and it is unlikely that line ministries could quickly or easily reabsorb the functions
currently carried out by FHIS. Furthermore, overall costs would likely be higher under the stand-alone
projects that would be required by individual ministries to carry out sectoral investment programs, since



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 8
Country: Honduras                                                       Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
FHIS's low operating costs are in large part a consequence of specialization and economies of scale.
FFIlS's multi-sectoral program also generates allocative efficiencies, since it empowers communities to
allocate scarce resources across sectors, thereby ensuring that such resources are applied optimally, in
response to local priorities.
Microcredit. At an earlier stage, the project team considered the inclusion of a Microcredit component to
support PASI/PROCATMER, two microcredit programs under the auspices of FHIS. However, the
project team decided, in full agreement with the management of FHIS and PASI, to drop the proposed
Microcredit component. Some of the reasons for this decision include the following: (i) both PASI and
PROCATMER still have sufficient liquidity for this year's commitments; (ii) the Government is still in the
process of making a number of important decisions regarding strategy in the microcredit sector, with
substantial help from the international community (EU, Dutch, ILO); and so the institutional framework for
a proposed microcredit component is simply not clear enough for appraisal in June; (iii) plans are
underway to merge PASI and PROCATMER and to make them independent from FHIS; and so, in any
case, there would no longer be a good justification for channeling a loan for microcredit through FHIS.
Possible support for the microfinance sector will be considered in the context of broader strategy
discussions being carried out with the Government in preparation for the next CAS.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector Issue                        Project                Latest Form 590 Ratings
I______________________________  _____________                  _   ~ (B              projects only)
IP               DO
Bank-financed
Need to reform public sector to improve public  Public Sector Modernization  S               S
management and to enhance efficiency,     TAC (Cr. 2814; US$9.6
transparency and accountability. Could involve    million);
aspects related to role of FHIS.         Public Sector Modernization
SAC (Cr. 28160-3;               S                 S
US$101.50 million)
Poor municipal capacity to assess        Environmental Development         U                 U
environmental issues, and to prepare and  Project (Cr. 2693-HO;
implement programs in response to such issues.   US$10.8 million)
Poor quality of basic education and weak  Basic Education Project (Cr.     S                 S
institutional capacity in Ministry of Education  2694-HO; US$30 million)
Poor access, efficiency and quality of primary    Nutrition and Health Project  S            S
health care                               (Cr. 2452-HO; US$25
I                                        million)
Lack of access to priority social and economic   Social Investment Fund I (Cr.  Completed  Completed
infrastructure and social assistance programs.  2212-HO; US$20 million);
Social Investment Fund II    Completed         Completed
(Cr. 2401-HO; US$10.2
million);
Social Investment Fund m         s                 s
(Cr. 2766-HO; US$30
million)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 9
Country: Honduras                                                  Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Sector Issue                     Project              Latest Form 590 Ratigs
(Bank-nanced projects only)
Other development agencies
Lack of access to priority social and economic  1DB - Social Compensation
infrastucture and social assistance programs  Program (including support
for FHIS and Family
Assistance Program
[PRAF]);
KfW - Program FHIS II
Weak municipal capacity and lack of municipal USAID - Municipal
infrastructure                         Development Program
Need for health sector reform        IDB - Health sector project
Improving and expanding access to basic  KfW - Basic education
education                              project
Developing self-employment and micro-  USAID - Anti-poverty
enterprises                            project lending
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design reflects lessons learned from international experience with SIFs,2 as well as from IDA's
experience with FHIS under Cr. 2212-HO, 2401-HO, and 2766-HO.3 Among the most pertinent of these
lessons are the following:
Limited Objectives and Consistency with National Development Strategies. FHlS, like all SIFs, needs
to maintain clear and limited objectives. Efficiency of operational policies and procedures, as well as
overall program effectiveness, depend upon clear understandings of FHIS's role in an overall development
strategy framework. When objectives are unclear, or when SIFs become responsible for numerous (and
sometimes conflicting) development goals, efficiency and effectiveness can become compromised. It is
particularly important for governments to clarify SIFs' roles in the context of national policies for social
development, poverty alleviation, and local/municipal development. Furthermore, it is important to
remember that SIFs are designed to finance and oversee implementation of subprojects and not to make
policies; while SIF managers and staff may bring important perspectives to inform policy discussions on
the above-mentioned topics, participation and coordination of all actors relevant to such discussions
(including from the public, private, and NGO sectors) should be assured.
2 Carvalho, S., "Social Funds. Guidelines for Design and Implementation", Human Resources Development and
Operations Policy Working Paper No. 34, World Bank, Washington, DC. Carvalho, S., "Portfolio Improvement
Program. Review of the Social Funds Portfolio", Quality Assurance Group (QAG), World Bank, Washington, DC,
March 1997. Glaessner, P., K. W. Lee, A. M. Sant' Anna, and J-J de St. Antoine, "Poverty Alleviation and Social
Investment Funds. The Latin American Experience", World Bank Discussion Paper No. 261, World Bank,
Washington, DC. Goodman, M., S. Morley, G. Siri, and E. Zuckerman, "Social Investment Funds in Latin
America: Past Performance, and Future Role", Evaluation Office, Social and Sustainable Development, Inter-
American Development Bank, Washington, D. C., March 1997. International Workshop on Social Funds, held on
27-29 May 1997 in Washington, DC. Narayan, D. and K. Ebbe, "Design of Social Funds. Participation, Demand
Orientation, and Local Organizational Capacity", World Bank Discussion Paper No. 375, World Bank,
Washington, DC.
3 Mid-Term Review for IDA Credit 2766-HO (November 6, 1997), Implementation Completion Report for IDA
Credit 2401-HO (#15755, May 24, 1996), and Performance Audit Report for Credits 2212-HO and 2401-HO
(#13839, December 30, 1994).



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 10
Country: Honduras                                               Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Key Institutional Characteristics. The project would place due emphasis on the institutional
characteristics that are considered most critical for success of SIFs: (i) operational efficiency; (ii)
transparency and accountability, which are bolstered by clear resource allocation criteria and operational
guidelines, reliable independent audits and evaluations, an effective management infonnation system, and
vigilant supervision by external financing agencies; (iii) clear and simple procurement and disbursement
procedures (this applies to both FHIS's and IDA's procedures); (iv) competitive salaries and freedom from
normal government personnel restrictions, in order to permit recruitnent/retainment of a highly qualified
staff; (v) proper targeting mechanisms; (vi) integration of the environmental viewpoint into operations; and
(vii) improved attention to monitoring and evaluation activities, including beneficiary assessments.
Sustainability. Subproject sustainability requires a participatory process that seeks open consultation with
communities on their needs and priorities and an involvement of communities throughout the project cycle
to secure their commitment to subproject operation and maintenance. FMIS resources also need to be
allocated for training. However, community support alone cannot assure subproject sustainability. To be
fully successful, subproject sustainability requires the coordinated support of both the central and local
governments, NGOs, and FHTS, with clearly defined roles and responsibilities for each.
Role of Local Governments. Local (municipal) governments can play an important role in ensuring
participatory priority-setting, and in contributing financial resources for subprojects. This can in turn lead
to more efficient and equitable distribution of resources within municipalities, and can improve prospects
for subproject sustainability. FRIS has demonstrated that it is possible to strengthen local governments'
capacities to carry out these functions. However, greater coordination with other actors involved in
local/municipal development will be required in order to achieve more widespread and sustained
strengthening of municipal capacities.
"Temporary" Nature of SIFs. The notion that SIFs are temporary needs to be reevaluated in general, and
in Honduras in particular. FHIS's creation eight years ago as a temporary agency was based on
assumptions that the economic adjustment program was of a limited duration, and that the line ministries
would be strengthened to prepare and implement programs and projects targeted to the poor, so that there
would be no long term need for FHIIS. However, chronic poverty continues to be pervasive, and constraints
on government expenditures and economic activity that could adversely affect the poor are likely to persist
for some time. Moreover, FHIS's role in efficiently financing small social infrastructure on a massive scale
throughout the country remains relevant, and it is not clear that this function would be better executed by
traditional line ministries, whose capacities in this area are still limited. FHIS has also shown that it can
play an important role as a catalyst to strengthen local governments and their abilities to foment
participatory processes for identifying, implementing, and sustaining priority investments. Also, FHIS has
piloted a number of new initiatives that later achieve sustainability on their own (e.g., PRAF4). Thus, the
comparative advantages of FHIS will probably remain relevant for quite some time, and a Government
decision to eliminate FMIIS should not be expected anytime soon.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
* Solid experience and regular Government support (including timely counterpart contributions) under
SIF I, SIF II, and SIF m projects.
*  FIRS named a technical team for project preparation in July 1997, and they have been actively
involved, including proposing a number of the innovations (e.g., Local Institutional Strengthening,
Social Assistance Steering Committee) planned under the project.
*  Support for FH[S among stakeholders (local and central government agencies, NGOs, local
governments, and final beneficiaries) has been high, as demonstrated by periodic consultations and
4Programa de Asignaciones Familiares (PRAF) is a program designed to improve nutrition and stimulate the use
of health and education facilities among the poor through distribution of food coupons at those facilities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 11
Country: Honduras                                               Fourth Social Investnent Fund Project
various program evaluations carried out in the past and during preparation.
* The new Government has shown support for FHIS and the innovations proposed under the new project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
* Ability to mobilize international resources, and to encourage donor coordination.
*  Mobilization of high-quality technical assistance for institutional improvements under the project.
* Bank's broader program of assistance (i.e., beyond FHIS) will provide a context to support
complementary reforms needed to sustain innovations under the proposed project.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
Since the project is fully driven by community demand and basically a line of credit, no cost-benefit
analysis has been carried out for the full program. However, in line with its Operational Manual, and
subject to minimum requirements agreed with the relevant sector agencies, FHIS uses detailed technical
criteria, standard designs, and simple economic criteria (e.g., cost-per-beneficiary calculations) to
determine subproject economic viability. FHIS's design also fosters allocative efficiencies: through the
promotion of participatory local decision-making, communities allocate scarce resources across sectors,
thereby ensuring that such resources are applied optimally, in response to local priorities.
NOTE: The Bank has recently initiated a study to review the experience to date with economic analysis in
social funds, identify the issues involved and develop guidelines as a technical support to Bank task
managers and social fund line staff in how to improve the economic analysis applied to these investments.
The results of this study are expected to be discussed and agreed with the relevant social funds within the
next six months. Consequently, FHIS would be expected to adopt and apply new economic analysis
policies and practices in accordance with the recommendations of that study, as of the beginning of 1999.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
T he project's fiscal implications, both during and after implementation, are expected to be manageable.
Fiscal implications during project implementation would include project counterpart funding requirements
(including FHIS operating costs) established by IDA and other cofinanciers. These are estimated at about
US$18.5 million, representing about 0.15% of GNP. It is worth mentioning that Government counterpart
funding under the SIF m project has been adequate and timely. Contributions by beneficiaries, local
governments, and NGOs, prior to FHIS subproject financing, while not monetized, are estimated to have
average values of 10-20% of investment costs, and, in the case of water and sanitation subprojects, as high
as 30%.
Operation and maintenance of completed subprojects is estimated to average about 2% of investment costs,
which is expected to be borne largely by local governments and communities (in accordance with
subproject maintenance plans submitted as a precondition for FHIS financing). For those subprojects that
entail an increase in Government expenditures on recurrent costs (i.e. incremental staff), prior endorsement
of the subproject by relevant line ministries would be required. Again, experience under the SIF I, SIF II,
and SI III projects has shown that inter-institutional coordination has been satisfactory and that such
financial implications are manageable.
3. Technical:
Technical criteria exist for each subproject type, based on existing norms from the respective public
agencies to ensure technical coherence and compatibility. These norms have been incorporated into FHIS's
Operational Manual. Technical subproject appraisal would be undertaken by qualified technical staff from



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 12
Country: Honduras                                             Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
FHIS. In the case of Social Assistance Programs, the Social Assistance Steering Committee would provide
additional advice to FH1S regarding the technical evaluation and implementation of social assistance
programs. Likewise, technical critena for community and rural water and sanitation projects would be
informed by the forum of stakeholders.
Under the Project, funds would be provided for technical assistance to enable FHIS to make further
improvements in technical aspects of its operations.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: As mentioned above, the project would be managed by FIIS. In general,
subprojects would be identified and sponsored by communities, NGOs, and/or local government
representatives, executed by qualified private contractors and NGOs, and supervised by FH1S. These
arrangements have proved satisfactory under previous IDA Credits. Subject to experiences under the Pilot
Program for Local Institutional Strengthening, certain municipalities, communities and/or other local
agents could assume increased responsibilities for all or parts of the subproject cycle, with supervision for
such involvement provided by FHIS in coordination with sector agencies, NGOs, and others.
b. Project management: Detailed criteria and procedures set out in FHIS's Operational Manual and
the PIP would govern all aspects of project management. The Operational Manual and PIP could be
modified as necessary during project preparation and implementation, subject to agreement with IDA. A
comprehensive program of echnical assistance under the SIF III Project (CR. 2766-HO) assisted FHIS to
strengthen its institutional capacity inall respects. Experience under the SIF m Project has shown that
FHIS's capacity to manage the project is adequate; the project preparation team confirmed the adequacy of
FHIS's institutional capacity. Funds will be provided under the proposed project to enable FHIS to review
and improve its operating procedures and institutional capacity, to maintain state-of-the-art practices, and
to respond with flexibility as new challenges arise.
S. Social:
Experience under previous phases of the FIH1S program have shown wide support for FH1S activities and
approaches.
During project preparation, a comprehensive Social Assessment was carried out by a Bank consultant with
the support of FHIS, and in direct consultation with representatives of the indigenous groups of Honduras.
The results of this Social Assessment are summarized in Annex 9. The study carried out focus groups with
beneficiaries, including community leaders, and contributed to the elaboration of an Indigenous Peoples
Participation Plan (IPPP), which is included in the PIP. Consistent with the IPPP, the project will support
special projects targeted at indigenous communities; and aim to further improve indigenous communities'
abilities to plan and implement development strategies in collaboration with the indigenous peoples'
federations as well as with local governments; and to secure better access to FHIS resources.
A Bank consultant has conducted a study on gender issues in FHIS, and found FHIS to be at the forefront
among Central American SIFs in striving to ensure women's participation throughout the project cycle. A
KfW consultant has also conducted a study on women who have been hired for the construction of FHIS
subprojects and found that all participants (FHS, contractors, employees, and beneficiaries) have been
satisfied.
The Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening was designed on the basis of extensive
consultations with representatives of central and local governments, NGOs, and communities, and will aim
to develop and test innovative approaches to improve the capacities of communities and local governments
to work together, and in better coordination with other stakeholders at the local, regional and national
levels.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 13
Country: Honduras                                               Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
To improve FHIS's support for social assistance programs, the project team consulted with numerous
Government agencies, NGOs, and international agencies. On the basis of these consultations, the project
will support the creation of a Social Assistance Steering Committee, consisting initially of representatives
of IHNFA, NGOs, and FHIS, to advise FHIS in its management of the Social Assistance subprogram (see
Annex 2). In addition, over the next several months and during implementation of the project, FFHS plans
to undertake, with IDA support, a series of workshops with various stakeholders (beneficiaries, NGOs,
central Government agencies, local government leaders, etc.), to increase exchange of know-how and offer
training and orientation in areas critical to the Social Assistance Program.
Regular consultation with beneficiaries will be supported under the project's Monitoring and Evaluation
Subcomponent. Findings of such consultations will be used to improve project implementation as
appropriate.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category [ ] A   [X] B   []C
The project would have no significant environmental risks. No resettlement would occur as a result of
project investments. An environmental unit was established in FHIS in 1995 with support under the
Environmental Development Project (Cr. 2693-HO). During frequent supervision, it has been found that
this unit is operating well, and that no additional action is required. The majority of subprojects are
expected to have a positive or neutral impact on the environment. The project preparation team, in
consultation with LCSES, confirmed that the environmental assessment policies and procedures, defined in
FHIS's Operational Manuals and currently used to screen subprojects for possible environmental
implications, are appropriate. During implementation, periodic evaluations would verify adherence to
subproject environmental assessment mechanisms, and impact evaluations would include assessments of
sustainability of environmental impacts.
7. Participatory approach:
(See also Section E5 above, and Annex 9 on the Social Assessment.)
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Preparation     Focus groups, consultations and interviews with community representatives. (IS, CON)
Implementation  Local planning methodologies and practices to emphasize communities' roles in
identification and prioritization of subprojects. Special efforts to ensure adequate
participation by women and by indigenous communities. Possible transfer (under Pilot
Program for Local Institutional Strengthening) of subproject cycle responsibilities and
resources directly to communities and/or local governments. Capacity building would
be provided. Regular beneficiary assessments during project implementation, with
feedback to be used for improving FHIS policies and practices. (IS, CON, COL)
Operation       Communities would make up-front commitments and contributions, through subproject
maintenance plans, to ensure operation and maintenance of subprojects. (COL)
b. Intermediary Organizations, including NGOs and private sector:
Preparation     Interviews and participatory workshops (IS, CON)
Implementation   Participation as contractors. For NGOs, provision of technical assistance for local
capacity building, contributions to pre-investment activities (esp. for water subprojects),
sponsor and implement social assistance programs, participation (as non-voting
members) in local planning fora. Membership on Social Assistance Steering Conunittee,
and Inter-Institutional Water Forum (IS, CON, COL)



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 14
Country: Honduras                                               Fourth Social hnvestment Fund Project
Operation       Some management of completed subprojects (esp. social assistance subprojects). (COL)
c. Local Governments:
Preparation     Consultations, especially on design of Pilot Program for Local Institutional
Strengthening. (IS, CON)
Implementation  Coordination with communities in subproject planning. Would receive capacity
building. Possible transfer (under Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening)
of subproject cycle responsibilities and resources directly to communities and/or local
governments. (IS, CON, COL)
Operation       Up-front commitments and contributions, through subproject maintenance plans, to
ensure operation and maintenance of subprojects. (COL)
d. Central Government agencies:
Preparation     Interviews and participatory workshops (IS, CON)
Implementation  Coordination to ensure subprojects are consistent with sectoral strategies. (IS, CON)
Operation       Operation of some completed infrastructure subprojects. (COL)
e. Other Donors:
Preparation     Close cooperation, esp. with KfW and IDB. (IS, CON, COL)
Implementation  Close cooperation, esp. with KfW and IDB. (IS, CON, COL)
Operation
Note: IS = Information Sharing; CON = Consultation; COL = Collaboration.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
a. Continued coordination with line agencies and agreement on their responsibilities for operation and
maintenance costs.
b. Beneficiary participation in all phases of subproject cycle, including up-front contributions and
commitments.
c. Improvements in the capacities of local governments to work with communities and with relevant
national authorities, to ensure operations and maintenance of local investments.
d. Improvements in subproject appraisal criteria to include assessments of institutional, technical, and
financial capacities of municipalities / communities to handle maintenance; these assessments would
include a review of plans, commitments and contributions (in the form of "maintenance contracts")
from all relevant actors. The project could include support to help municipalities/communities improve
weak capacities.
e.  Training of beneficiaries in subproject use and maintenance, formation of user committees.
The proposed project's development objectives would not depend upon the sustainability of FHIS as an
institution per se, and therefore the project does not provide for a continuation of FHIS beyond the time
period for which financing would be provided. It is worth mentioning however, that, to the extent that
extemal financing remains available after completion of the proposed project, and as pointed out in the
"Lessons Leamed" section above, dissolution of FT-US is not expected any time soon.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 15
Country: Honduras                                                    Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
With regard to the sustainability of the project's institution building initiatives, it is hoped that the
stakeholder alliances that are sought under the Social Assistance subcomponent and the Pilot Program to
Strengthen Community and Rural Water Systems component will lay the groundwork for more lasting
associations in these sectors. It is also hoped that the local/municipal development activities to be piloted
under this project will also have a more general impact in contributing to better, and lasting, local
capacities for designing, financing, managing, and sustaining development strategies. However, major
improvements in such local governance capacities are not expected as a direct consequence of the project,
since these would require national policy reforms (e.g., fiscal decentralization, tax reform, etc.) that fall
well beyond the scope of this project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                 Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
Project outputs to development
objectives
Goverrunent maintains policy directions  N       Confirmation was received from the Govermment
conducive to FHIS effectiveness.                 regarding the congruence of the Project's basic
objectives / strategy and national plans for poverty
alleviation, social sector and local/municipal
development. Ongoing Bank I Government dialogue
during implementation.
Subprojects do not reflect the           N       Community participation and comnuitment (including
priorities/needs of beneficiaries.               contributions) will be evaluated as criteria for
subproject selection. Capacity-building activities to
improve the role of local governments in coordinating
participatory planning of investments.
Targeting mechanisms are weak, and       N       Review of targeting criteria during project preparation.
are subjected to political interference.         Close supervision, external auditing during
implementation.
Line agencies, and/or other actors, fail  M      Mechanisms to ensure continued close cooperation
to provide adequate resources for staff          between FHIS and line ministries. Increased role for
and operation of facilities.                     local governments in ensuring subproject maintenance.
Improvements in subproject appraisal criteria to include
assessments of maintenance plans.
Beneficiaries do not participate in      M       Training, ongoing emphasis on community
appropriate use and maintenance of               participation.
subprojects
Lack of willingness of local             M       Strict oversight of municipalities participating in pilot
govermments to foster community                  program. Pilot program will allow assessment of
participation and coordination with              experience
other stakeholders regarding local
development strategies.
Project components to outputs
FIIS fails to attract and retain         N       Pay competitive salaries. IDA's insistence on minimal
competent staff.                                 political interference in staffing decisions.
Subcontractors (including subproject     N       Appropriate selection criteria, incentive systems, and
implementing agencies, microcredit               supervision (both by FEIS and by IDA).
intermediary organizations, external
auditors, etc.) are not adequately
competent.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 16
Country: Honduras                                                    Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Risk                 Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
Project components to outputs (cont.)
Association of water agencies does not   M       Close supervision by IDA. Future funding for
function effectively.                            replication / expansion should be tied to positive
evaluations of Pilot.
Social Assistance Board does not         M       Close supervision by IDA. Future funding for social
function effectively.                            assistance program should be tied to positive
evaluations.
Overall Risk Rating                      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk                 Type of Risk Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Political interference in FHIS           M           M       Close supervision and consultation with
management .                                                 senior govermment officials.
Resistance from central or local         G           M       Consultation with stakeholders during
stakeholders to increased role of                            project preparation. Use of Pilot
municipalities                                               Program, with phased implementation,
to test feasibility of changes.
Possible inability of water agencies to  G           M       Consultation with stakeholders during
work well as an alliance                                     project preparation. Use of Pilot
Program to test feasibility of changes.
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
* Signing of the Subsidiary Agreement, acceptable to IDA, between FHIS and the Government of
Honduras.
* FHIS will issue PIP, satisfactory to IDA.
* FHIS's environmental unit will be staffed (including a unit chief), satisfactory to IDA.
2. Other:
* Signing of agreements to govern inter-interinstitutional coordination, with the Ministries of Health,
Education, Culture, IHNFA, and AMHON, satisfactory to IDA.
*  Government will provide necessary counterpart funds to cover its share of FHIS investment costs,
operating costs, and any incremental recurrent costs of completed F1H1S investments.
*  FFIS will present regular progress, planning, and audit reports, as described in Section C.4 above.
FHIS will conduct joint Annual Implementation Reviews with IDA.
*  FHIS will maintain its staffing, Operational Manual, and PIP satisfactory to IDA.
*  Upon completion of the ongoing FHIS impact evaluation study, FHIS will develop an action plan,
satisfactory to IDA, based on the results of the study. FF1S will ensure that monitoring and evaluation
of project implementation and impact, including beneficiary assessments, are carried out regularly
throughout the life of the project, satisfactory to IDA.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 17
Country Honduras                                                Fourth Social Investnent Fund Project
*  Upon completion of the Bank study on Economic Evaluation in Social Funds (see Annex 4), FPHS will
develop an action plan for improving economic evaluation methodologies and practices, satisfactory to
IDA.
* Upon completion of the consultancy on FHIS's procurement policies and practices (see Annex 6),
FF1S will develop an action plan to incorporate recommendations, satisfactory to IDA.
* The first Annual Project implementation review will include the results of a consultancy to assess the
effectiveness of FHS's environmental assessment mechanisms to date in detecting and mitigating
environmental problems.
*  No funds shall be disbursed against subprojects in the Pilot Program to Strengthen Community and
Rural Water Systems component, until the detailed design work called for in the technical assistance
plans for in that component has been completed, satisfactory to IDA.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [XI Not applicable.
[X1 The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
P[X The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies..
David Warre ;lu          en
Task ver
Xavier Coil
Acting Sector Direcfor
Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Country Director



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 18
Country: Honduras                                                   Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Annex 1
Honduras
Fourth Social Investment Fund
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary           Key Performance              Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                              (Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve the living conditions
and development opportunities
among the poorer segments of
the population
Project Development                                                                   (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
The proposed project would    1. Increases in rates of access  Impact Monitoring and  Economic growth
continue IDA's support for the  to and utilization of social and   Evaluation System, and
successful FHIS program,    economic infrastructure, and    Beneficiary Assessments   Sound macroeconomic policies
aiming to increase access   social assistance programs.                               / discipline
among the poor to small-scale                            FillS's Geographic
social and economic         2. Evidence that investments   Information System (GIS)   Subprojects are sustained.
infrastructure in accordance    are targeted to the poor.
with local development
priorities; to develop social  3. Evidence that investments
assistance programs for     reflect the priorities of the
disadvantaged groups; and to   targeted communities and
contribute to the prospects for   beneficiaries.
sustainability of such
investments.                4. Evidence that subprojects
are in operation and
maintained for a reasonable
number of years, depending on
subproject type.
Outputs:                                                                             (Outputs to Objective)
1. Subprojects of good quality.  1. Amount and number of  Supervision Missions and    Government maintains policy
(Subprojects would include  subprojects; breakdown by type  Annual Reviews            directions conducive to FHIS
social and economic         of subproject; evidence of                                effectiveness.
infrastructure, training to  quality of subprojects      Financial and Operations
enhance sustainability, and                              Audits                       Subprojects reflect the
financing for social assistance   2. (a) # of municipalities                          priorities/needs of
programs.)                  carrying out participatory local  Progress Reports        beneficiaries.
planning exercises; quality of
2. In a limited number of   such exercises; (b) # of     M&E System, and Beneficiary  Targeting mechanisms are
municipalities, strengthened    municipalities managing  Assessments                  good, and are implemented
institutional, technical, and  subproject cycle; (c) # of                             with minimal political
financial capacities at the local  municipalities with a coherent  FHIS MIS, including set of  interference.
level, to improve participatory  and working plan for    operations performance
planning and prioritizing,  maintenance                  indicators
management of subproject    I



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 19
Country: Honduras                                                    Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Narrative Summary            Key Performance               Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Indicators
cycle, and sustainability of  3. Key Performance                                        Line agencies, or other actors,
FEHS-financed investments.    Indicators, including FHIIS                               provide adequate resources to
operating expenses as a                                    staff and operate facilities.
3. Efficiently operating     percentage of total expenses
institution. This includes   and evidence of application of                             Beneficiaries participate in
application of appropriate   FillS's targeting criteria                                 appropriate use and
methodologies and criteria   (amount invested by poverty                                maintenance of subprojects
(reflected in FEIIS's        category of municipality;
Operational Manual and PIP,   amount invested rural vs.                                 Willingness of local
revised as necessary during  urban). FLTIS maintains a set                              governments to foster
implementation) for all phases  of 48 indicators, evaluated                             community participation and
of subproject cycle, including    weekly (see Appendix).                                coordination with other
resource allocation, subproject                                                         stakeholders regarding local
identification, formulation,  1-3. Satisfactory ratings by                              development strategies.
evaluation, contracting, and  beneficiariestusers, local
supervision.                 governments, international
financing agencies.
4. Useful lessons learned from
pilot components.            4. Description and analysis of
lessons learned.
Project Components/          (in US$ million)                                           (Components to Outputs)
Subcomponents (See Annex 2
for a detailed description):
1. Subproject Financing      112.4                         Progress Reports             FHIS can attract and retain
competent staff.
1.1. Social and Economic      96.9                        Disbursement Reports (LACI)
Infrastructure Subprojects                                                               Subcontractors (including
subproject implementing
1.2. Special Programs         15.5                                                      agencies, external auditors,
etc.) are competent.
2. Pilot Program for Local     1.3
Institutional Strengthening                                                             Operational Manuals and
technical specifications are
3. Pilot Program to            3.5                                                      thorough, appropriate, and
Strengthen Community and                                                                applied.
Rural Water Systems
Social assistance board
4. Project Management          9.3                                                      functions effectively
4.1. FllS Operating Costs     15.4                                                      Association of water agencies
4.2. Institutional                                                                      functions effectively
Strengthening                   1.6                                                     Willingness by local
4.3. Equipment and Vehicles     1.7                                                     govermnent authorities and
4.4. Extemal Auditing                                                    other stakeholders to
4.4. External Auditing         0.3                                                      participate in institutional
4.5. Monitoring and                                                                     strengthening activities.
Evaluation                     0.3



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 20
Country: Honduras                                                Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Annex 2
Honduras
Fourth Social Investment Fund
Project Description
This annex is divided into two sections. The first section provides an overview of the project's four components; the second
section provides additional details regarding the strategies and implementation arrangements of the following components
and subcomponents: Social and Economic Infrastructure Subprojects; Social Assistance Programs; Pilot Program for
Local Institutional Strengthening; Pilot Program to Strengthen Community and Rural Water Systems.
SECTION 1: OVERVIEW
Project Component 1 - Subproject Financing (total cost of component US$112.4 million)
Subproject financing represents the core of the proposed project. This component would include two subcomponents: (a)
Social and Economic Infrastructure Subprojects (US$96.9 million); and (b) Special Programs (US$15.5 million).
(a) Social and Economic Infrastructure Subprojects. This subcomponent would enable FHIS to continue to support a
wide range of small-scale subprojects for the expansion / improvement of basic social and economic infrastructure, as well
as for the provision of accompanying training in operations and maintenance. Subprojects would be identified and
sponsored by poor communities, in coordination with local government representatives, NGOs, and sectoral agencies.
Subprojects eligible for financing will have to meet technical, financial, economic, social and enviromnental criteria set out
in the Operational Manual and PIP. Based on experience, the majority of demands are expected to be for works, equipment,
materials and training in operation and maintenance, related to: schools, health centers, water supply systems, latrines,
small-scale community / municipal infrastructure (including access roads, bridges, markets, culverts), cultural heritage sites
(archeological and historical monuments), and environmental infrastructure (mainly watershed protection and reforestation).
(b) Special Programs. This component would provide financing for two special subprograms of FHIS: (i) Social
Assistance; and (ii) Programs for Indigenous Communities.
i) Social Assistance. Under this subcomponent, the project would continue support for FHIS's financing of social
assistance programs that address priority social needs for disadvantaged and underserved groups (e.g., women,
streetchildren, the elderly, the disabled), identified by such groups or their representatives (including NGOs,
church groups, and Government agencies; most notable among the latter is the Honduran Institute for Children and
Families, IHNFA, the official normative agency responsible for social assistance programs). As an indication of
the types of subprojects likely to be requested, FHIS's support for social assistance programs in the past has
included financing for construction/rehabilitation of infrastructure, equipment, supplies, and technical assistance
for: shelters for streetchildren; supplemental nutrition programs, such as infant and schoolchildren feeding;'
training of midwives and other healthworkers, childcare and early development programs, and care for the elderly
and disabled.
ii) Programsfor Indigenous Communities. Consistent with the Indigenous Peoples Participation Plan developed
during project preparation (see Annex 9), this subeomponent would support FHIS's efforts to attend to the social
and economic needs of poor indigenous communities in Honduras by:
lNutrition expenditures financed by IDA would be mrinimal (estimnated at less than US$0.3 million per year) and would be an
integral part of certain social assistance subprojects, such as those focused on providing shelter for streetchildren, care for the
elderly, or support for child care and early development programs. These programs are targeted at the most disadvantaged
population groups, and would be monitored to minimize distribution of food to populations outside the target group.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 21
Country: Honduras                                            Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
*  Continuing, and further improving, support for FHIS's Nuestras Raices ("Our Roots") program, which has,
since 1995, financed the construction and rehabilitation of rural roads in indigenous communities using paid
labor of community members, and then provided training to such community members to help them learn to use
the wages earned to organize and finance agricultural and commercial income-generating activities initiated and
identified by the communities themselves.
*  Providing for workshops, training, and technical assistance to further improve indigenous communities'
abilities to plan and implement development strategies in collaboration with the indigenous peoples' federations
as well as with local governments; and to secure access to FHIS resources.
Project Component 2 - Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening (total cost of component US$1.3 million)
In light of the important and increasing role that communities and local governments have played in FHIS's strategy to
ensure local participation in planning, implementing, and sustaining FFHS-financed investments, this component would aim
to develop, test, and draw lessons about approaches for encouraging and enabling communities and local governments to
work together, and in coordination with other stakeholders at the local, regional, and national levels -- to plan, implement,
and sustain FHIS-financed investments. The component would cover three interrelated aspects: (i) participatory local
planning; (ii) preventive maintenance; and (iii) transfer of (some) functions and responsibilities for subproject processing
from FH1S to municipalities. The component would include: technical assistance to develop detailed methodologies,
instruments, and monitoring indicators for the component; training and accompaniment of communities and municipalities
as they apply the methodologies and instruments; and technical assistance to monitor, evaluate, and document the
experience and lessons learned under the component.
Project Component 3 - Pilot Program to Strengthen Community and Rural Water Systems (total cost of component
US$3.5 million)
This component would develop and test innovative methodologies and creative partnerships, aimed at improving attention to
rural communities' needs for water systems, as well as the supervision and follow-up of the operations and maintenance of
such systems. The component would provide for: (i) supplementary financing in a number of "pilot" municipalities,
targeted for rural water systems for poor communities; and (ii) technical assistance to help FHIS develop detailed
methodologies and monitoring and evaluation indicators for the program; to help communities and other local actors
improve local capacities to plan, implement, and sustain water subprojects; to help ensure adequate inter-interinstitutional
coordination (both nationally and intemationally); and to monitor, evaluate, and document the experience and lessons
leamed under the component.
Project Component 4 - Project Management (total cost of component US$19.3 million)
This component would include:
a) FHIS Operating Costs (US$15.4 million). These are estimated at 10.6% of the FHIS program's total costs.
b) Institutional Strengthening (US$1.6 million). This would include training, TA; study tours, and workshops to
improve FHIS operations, including in the following areas: programs for indigenous communities, social assistance
programs, project cycle management; economic evaluation criteria; contracting procedures; unit cost system; and other
areas to be identified during implementation. The subcomponent also includes a KfW-financed resident technical assistance
unit.
c) Equipment and Vehicles (US$1.7 million). Includes vehicles, informatics, and office equipment.
d) External Auditing (US$0.3 million). Both annual financial and concurrent audits.
e) Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.3). Financing for extemal agency(ies) to carry out regular/ongoing beneficiary
assessments and impact monitoring and evaluation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 22
Country: Honduras                                              Fourth Social Investmnent Fund Project
SECTION 2: ADDITIONAL DETAILS
Social and Economic Infrastructure Subvroiects
FHIS would continue to allocate its resources for Social and Economic Infrastructure Subprojects to all municipalities on
the basis of a formula incorporating population and poverty indicators, with relatively more funds allocated on a per capita
basis to the poorer municipalities. This system provides transparency in the use of funds, and helps ensure that social
investment expenditures are spread throughout the country, with an emphasis on areas that have been historically
disadvantaged in terms of access to basic social services. Moreover, transparent ex-ante resource allocations provide a
budget constraint that can force, and enable, local jurisdictions to make economic choices regarding the relative priorities
among investment options.
The project would not require FHIS to apply sectoral targets (i.e., fixed percentage allocations to each sector), since these
can unnecessarily constrain FHIS's capacity to respond flexibly to local demand, and can therefore reduce allocation
efficiency as well as the prospects for sustainability of investments. Instead, the project would build upon past experiences
in using education, promotion, and pre-investment financing as tactics to stimulate demand and to enable local communities
to make informed decisions regarding their investment options.
With regard to the subproject menu, FHIS would continue to apply a pre-established, albeit wide-ranging, menu oriented
toward basic infrastructure and services; this is a response to: (i) FHIS's targeting strategy, since this menu tends to be
self-targeted to poor communities; (ii) continued substantial investment needs, and scarce resources, in the water, sanitation,
education, health and economic infrastructure sectors. Indeed, as mentioned above, line ministries depend on FHIS for
infrastructure investments in these sectors; (iii) FHIS's comparative advantage in attending to these sectors, and a desire to
avoid becoming spread too thinly; and (iv) an interest in ensuring transparency, and forestalling potential political
manipulation, in the application of funds. Nonetheless, FHIS's menu and the Credit Agreement would be flexible enough to
permit consideration of non-menu items in certain cases where there is clearly demonstrated local public interest. Moreover,
as mentioned below, FHIS would experiment with the application of a "negative list menu" in a few municipalities under the
pilot program.
Social Assistance Proerams
To improve FHJS's ability to identify and prioritize such social assistance subprojects transparently and efficiently, and to
help provide better guidance regarding the technical evaluation and supervision of such subprojects, the project would
provide for the creation of an ad-hoc Social Assistance Steering Committee (Mesa de Asistencia Social), to advise FHIS in
its management of the social assistance subprogram. The Committee would comprise, initially, representatives of FHIS,
IHNFA, and three NGO associations, but could be expanded to include other members in the future. A first order of
business to be overseen by the Committee would be the carrying out of a series of consultations among FHIS and various
stakeholders (beneficiaries, NGOs, central Government agencies, local government leaders, etc.) on program objectives;
monitoring and evaluation indicators; targeting criteria, types of subprojects to be financed, and other operational aspects of
the subprogram; and means of improving the sustainability of social assistance programs. The Steering Committee would
continue to consult with stakeholders throughout project implementation, and would also advise FHIS on the testing and
possible replication of innovative social assistance programs. These consultations, as well as a modest amount of additional
technical assistance, would be financed under the project.
Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening
Basically, this program would constitute a structured experiment designed to develop, test, evaluate, and draw lessons
regarding innovative approaches and methodologies for building local institutional capacities to carry out planning,
subproject cycle management, and preventive maintenance. Although focused on the role of municipal governments as
"governors" of local processes, FHIS's strategy combines the municipal and the community approaches to decentralization:
roles and responsibilities are established at each of these levels.
The program's institutional strengthening objectives would cover three interrelated aspects.
a) Participatory Local Planning Methodologies and Practices. One objective of this program would be to improve
identification and prioritization of projects and of needs for maintenance of social infrastructure. The methodology



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 23
Country: Honduras                                              Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
would emphasize a bottom-up process, starting at the level of the community, and then aggregated and coordinated at
the municipal level. Special efforts are contemplated to ensure adequate participation by women and by indigenous
communities. While most municipalities would continue to work with FHIS's pre-established, wide-ranging menu,
which is oriented toward basic infrastructure and services, some will be selected to participate in an experimental
application of a "negative list" of subprojects.
b) Preventive Maintenance. A second aim would be to formalize and strengthen systems for planning, financing and
executing preventive maintenance at both the municipal and the community levels. This focus is founded on the results
of several studies conducted under the SIF III project and during preparation of the proposed SIF IV project, which
indicate that: (a) sector ministries that are nominally responsible for operations and maintenance of social
infrastructure have little or no budgets available for routine and preventive maintenance expenditures, let alone for
rehabilitation; (b) in many cases, municipalities have already been finding ways to pay for routine maintenance
expenditures and even operating costs, such as staff salaries, using resource transfers and other local revenues. The
emphasis would be on the role of local govenmments; for although communities are often capable of carrying out minor
maintenance activities (such as cleaning or painting), they often lack financial resources and/or technical expertise for
larger repairs. Moreover, extemal supervision is also necessary to ensure appropriate maintenance by communities.
In this context, TA would be provided to: (i) strengthen municipal financial management capacities, focusing on the
establishment of permanent systems to convert preventive maintenance into a formal activity reflected in municipal
plans and budgets; (ii) help in the development of "social contracts" that reflect commitments among communities,
municipalities, FHIS, and possibly others, thereby providing more formal, transparent shape to existing informal
arrangements for maintenance and local investment (contracts would also tailor commitments to the local fiscal and
management capacity); (iii) induce and train municipalities to assign funds from Central Govemment transfers, and
from other local sources of income (recaudaciones); by way of an incentive, the pilot program would offer additional
resources to municipalities with below-average fiscal capacity, provided they prepare participatory plans and commit
community and municipal resources to maintenance and vigilance of social infrastructure; (iv) improve municipal
capacities to raise revenues from other potential sources, via establishment of cadasters and other sources contemplated
in the "plan de arbitrios ". Special efforts would be made to tailor methodologies, instruments, and training programs
according to municipalities' levels of financial and administrative management capacity; to this end, criteria have been
developed to classify municipalities into four categories of financial / administrative capacity.2 This subcomponent
would also consider the possibility of financing small increases in the Central Government revenue transfers provided to
the poorest municipalities in the sample, as an incentive, and to permit them, to work with communities toward the
financing of maintenance.
NOTE: In addition to these "pilot" activities, FHIS would continue to work to consolidate past efforts to improve the
quality of finished subprojects, to provide mechanisms of coordination with line ministries, to provide appropriate
training to user groups, and to require adequate commitments and contributions from beneficiaries and other
stakeholders.
c) Transfer of Functions and Responsibilities in the Subproject Cycle, from FHIS to Municipalities. The program
would seek ways of improving local (municipal and community) ownership of subprojects, by experimenting with the
delegation I decentralization of functions related to the FHIS subproject cycle, from FHIS to municipal governments
and/or communities, in accordance with the administrative and financial capacities of the different municipalities.
The pilot program would include three phases:
(i) Design. This phase would include: (a) technical assistance for development of the detailed methodologies and
instruments required for implementation of the pilot phase in the participating municipalities / communities; (b) technical
assistance to develop a methodology and indicators for the evaluation of the pilot phase. It is expected that these activities
would initiate in June 1998, and be completed by September 1998.
2 The criteria used to classify the nation's municipalities into these four categories include: level of fiscal revenues; administrative
capacities (presence of MIS, cadaster, qualified personnel, etc.); and past experience with participatory management.



Project Appraisal Documnent                                                             Page 24
Country: Honduras                                                Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
(ii) Implementation. This phase would consist essentially of training and accompaniment of the communities and
municipalities in the sample group, to help them apply the methodologies and instruments developed during the design
phase. In most cases, such training and accompaniment would be carried out on a contract basis, by NGOs or by private
contractors; however it is possible that the pilot will also include other modalities (accompaniment by FHIS staff, or by
other Government agencies). The sample of municipalities that would participate in the pilot phase would include 27
municipalities, representative of four different "levels" of administrative and financial management capacity. Technical
assistance would be provided to FHIS throughout implementation, to accompany FHIS in supervising proper application of
pilot methodologies and instruments, and to assist in coordination with other stakeholders (including Ministries of
Education, Health, and Local Governance; the Association of Mayors of Honduras [AHMON]; and the General
Comptroller of the Republic). Implementation would begin in June 1998, and should be completed in early 1999.
(iii) Monitoring, Evaluation, and Planning for Future Replication / Expansion. This phase would include technical
assistance throughout the implementation of the pilot phase (e.g., 2 weeks per month), to monitor and to evaluate the
experimental phase and its initial impacts, to document the experience and lessons learned (including possible implications
for institutional and legal reforms, as well as for national decentralization strategies and policies), and to begin the work of
formulating a replication/expansion plan (if such is determined appropriate) in coordination with national and international
stakeholders. This technical assistance is expected to be implemented throughout the project's implementation period.
Pilot Pro2ram to Strengthen Community and Rural Water Systems
Potable water in Honduras is in very short supply. One quarter of the population lacks access to water and sanitation
systems, even more in rural areas, and poor water quality often limits the benefits of increased access. There seems to be
consensus regarding the principal explanation for poor progress in improving attention to rural communities' water needs:
namely, that given the small size of such communities, and the high fixed costs associated with even the simplest water
system technologies, it is difficult to achieve economies of scale in order to bring the investment costs of rural water systems
down to reasonable levels. This problem is compounded in Honduras by the fact that resources available for infrastructure
investments within any given municipality are extremely scarce, and therefore have high opportunity costs. While several
experiences (including under the IDA-assisted Nutrition and Health project, Cr. 2452-HO) have shown that it is possible to
bring down the costs of rural water systems, and improve community participation and sustainability, by providing
financing for groups of small water subprojects that attend to the needs of a number of contiguous communities, and by
working with NGOs who are often willing and able to provide resources for the costly and time-consuming pre-investment
phase of such systems, such efforts require a high concentration of resources for relatively small geographical areas. Since
FHIS's concerns for equity, transparency, and political economy provides for the allocation of its funds throughout the
country, such a concentration of funds is not feasible under FHIS's normal allocations. Another problem is that the absence
of a clear sectoral authority, and weak sectoral coordination generally, has limited the emergence of a strategic approach to
the sector, particularly with regard to the provision of management services and follow-up required to ensure the
sustainability of physical works.
The principal objective of the proposed Pilot Program to Strengthen Community and Rural Water Systems component is to
develop and test innovative methodologies and creative partnerships, aimed at improving attention to rural communuities'
needs for water systems.3 A secondary objective is to improve sectoral coordination with the expectation that this will
lead to improved provision of technical assistance, supervision, and follow-up of O&M of rural water systems, and
potentially lay the groundwork for improved attention to the water sector in the future.
3 According to census definitions, 'urban' communities are those of over 2,000 people, 'concentrated rural' communities are those of
less than 2,000 people, and 'dispersed rural' communities are those of less than 500 people. SANAA, the national water authority,
concentrates its energies on the major urban systems. The Ministry of Health, the official normative agency for the rural water
sector, has limited resources and is unable to attend to the rural subsector's increasing demands (although the Bank's Nutrition and
Health Project has had a positive, albeit limited, impact in four of the poorest departments). FHIS has therefore become perhaps the
most important player in attempting to meet the shortfall in the rural water sector by identifying and building new basic
infrastructure services, and by improving the subproject cycle to ensure higher levels of training, comnuitment, and participation
among target communities. Given this context, the Pilot Program will aim at rural communities with particular focus on dispersed
rural communities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 25
Country: Honduras                                              Fourth Social ivestment Fund Project
To achieve these objectives, the component will provide for:
a) Supplementary financing in a number of "pilot" municipalities, targeted for rural water systems for poor
communities. Such financing would enable the financing of a "critical mass" of rural water subprojects, i.e., a number of
subprojects designed to serve collectively the needs of several contiguous communities within a municipality. By
approaching such subprojects in groups, it is expected that FHIS would be able to produce economies of scale in design and
implementation costs. In the interest of simplicity, the identification and processing of such subprojects would be subject to
the same fundamental rules and operating procedures as for other FHIS subprojects: this includes high degrees of
community participation and coordination with municipal and sectoral representatives in the planning and implementation
phases, as well as up-front training and commitments to help ensure operations and maintenance of completed subprojects.
Details of these operating procedures would be drawn up based on recommendations of an inter-interinstitutional forum of
stakeholders and other technical assistance (see following paragraphs) and incorporated into a revised Implementation Plan
for this component.
b) Improved inter-interinstitutional coordination in the water and sanitation sector. As part of preparation for this
component, FHIS has already signed an accord with the Ministry of Health establishing a framework for coordination
between the two institutions regarding the implementation of the proposed pilot program. The accord also calls for the
constitution of an ad-hoc forum of sector stakeholders including, initially: FHIS, Ministry of Health, SANAA, the Rural
Water and Sanitation Network--Central America (RWSN-CA), and the NGOs with most experience in the rural water
sector in Honduras. The purposes of this ad-hoc group are: (i) to advise FHIS regarding targeting criteria and operational
procedures and methodologies for the implementation of the pilot program; (ii) to monitor and make recommendations
regarding the component's implementation; and (iii) to draw, discuss, and act on lessons generated under this pilot
component. A first meeting of the forum has already been held, during which agreement was reached at the highest levels to
develop and operationalize the Pilot Program together. A smaller core group will hold regular meetings to plan concrete
activities.
c) Institutional Strengthening. The key institutional strengthening activities contemplated for this component include: (i)
a consultant to help FHIS develop the detailed methodologies, as well as monitoring and evaluation indicators, for the
program; (ii) occasional consultancies to improve methodologies during implementation; (iii) technical assistance for
communities and other local actors to improve local capacities to plan, implement, and sustain water subprojects;
(iv) technical assistance from RWSN-CA to advise FHIS during implementation, to help ensure adequate inter-
interinstitutional coordination (both nationally and intemationally), to monitor and to evaluate the experimental phase and
its initial impacts, to document the experience and lessons leamed, and to begin the work of formulating a
replication/expansion plan (if such is determined appropriate) in coordination with national and intemational stakeholders.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 26
Country: Honduras                                            Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Annex 3
Honduras
Fourth Social Investment Fund
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                     Local       Foreign       Total
--------------------US $ million-----------------
1. Subproject Financing
a. Social and Economic Infrastructure Subprojects    77.5         19.4         96.9
b. Special Programs                                  13.0          2.5         15.5
Subtotal                                             90.5         21.9        112.4
2. Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening   1.1          0.2          1.3
3. Pilot Program to Strengthen Cormmunity and Rural      2.3          1.2          3.5
Water Systems
4. Project Management
a. FHS Operating Costs                                14.6           0.0        14.6
b. Institutional Strengthening                        0.7            0.9         1.6
c. Equipment and Vehicles                             0.2            1.5         1.7
d. Extemal Auditing                                   0.3            0.0         0.3
e. Monitoring and Evaluation                          0.2            0.1         0.3
Subtotal                                             16.0           2.5         18.5
Total Baseline Cost                                    109.9          25.8       135.7
Physical Contingencies                                0.0           0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies                                   0.8           0.0         0.8
Total Project Cost                                     110.7          25.8       136.5
NOTE: Since the project is essentially a financial intermediary type operation, and physical targets are not the main
objectives of the proposed project, no contingencies have been provided for the subprojects. Any increase in the
average subproject cost would be reflected in a reduced number of subprojects executed.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 27
Country: Honduras                                              Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Annex 4
Honduras
Fourth Social Investment Fund
Economic Analysis Summary
Background. Economic analysis of social fund projects has proved to be an extremely complex issue. Accordingly, the
Bank has recently initiated a study to review the experience to date with economic analysis in social funds, identify the
issues involved and develop guidelines as a technical support to Bank task managers and social fund line staff in how to
improve the economic analysis applied to these investments.1 The results of this study are expected to be discussed and
agreed with the relevant social funds within the next six months. Consequently, FH[S would be expected to adopt and
apply new economic analysis policies and practices in accordance with the recommendations of that study, as of the
beginning of 1999.
Furthermore, FHIS and IDA have also initiated, as part of project preparation, an impact evaluation of the FHIS program
to date, the results of which are expected by late 1998. That study is also likely to provide inputs that will be useful for
improving FHIS's economic analysis policies and practices, and will therefore serve as a basis for determining additional
measures to be taken by FHIS in this area.
Notwithstanding expected improvements in the methodologies applied by FHIS to ensure optimization of resources, this
annex summarizes an economic analysis of the project at two different levels: (a) the level of the FH1S itself, i.e., whether
the mechanism and design of the fund represent reasonable investments for the Government; and (b) the level of the
subprojects, i.e., how does the project ensure that the resources of the FHIS are used optimally.
Economic Analysis of the FHIS as a Delivery Mechanism.
Given (i) the public nature of the types of investments financed by FHIS (i.e., social and economic infrastructure and social
assistance programs targeted at poor communities), and (ii) the scarcity of funds (private or public) available for such
investments, the most likely counterfactual scenario would be re-absorption by line mimstries of the responsibilities FHIS
now has for infrastructure investments. While quantitative analysis of this alternative presents certain comparability
problems, a number of factors argue in favor of the project's approach.
a) Re-absorption of FHIS's investment functions by line agencies would result in a significantly reduced national capacity
to address the needs for investments in social and infrastructure and social services, which in the education, health, and
water & sanitation sectors alone, are estimated at about US$45 million annually merely to maintain or to expand
modestly current coverage rates in these sectors.) Despite assistance from numerous financing agencies, including IDA,
modernization / reform of the line ministries has proved to be a slow process. In the meantime, and as a consequence of
this, FHIS has become the principal, and in some cases the only government instrument for financing small-scale
projects in the social sectors. It is unlikely that line ministries could quickly or easily reabsorb the functions currently
carried out by FHIS.
b) Overall costs would likely be higher under the stand-alone projects that would be required by individual ministries to
carry out sectoral investment programs. FHIS's ability to operate efficiently (operating costs were about 11% in 1997)
and on a massive scale has had much to do with specialization and economies of scale. Furthermore, FHIS has been
able to streamline the processes involved in mobilizing the substantial external financing required for social sector
The outline for that study is presented in a draft issues paper, "Guidelines for Economic Analysis of Social Funds", prepared by
Julia Van Domelen as an internal memorandum, March 24, 1998. This annex draws liberally from that paper.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 28
Country: Honduras                                                Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
investments, and has done so using an existing institution that requires no special project coordinating unit (PCU);
administrative costs are borne by Government.
c) FHIS's design also produces allocative efficiencies that would be difficult to replicate in stand-alone sectoral investment
projects: through the promotion of participatory local decision-making, FEHIS empowers communities to allocate scarce
resources across sectors, thereby ensuring that such resources are applied optimally, in response to local priorities.
This participation also contributes to local ownership, which, combined with other complements that FHIS provides
(such as training of end-users), enhances sustainability of subprojects and extends the life of investment benefit streams.
d) Finally, FHIS has proved itself able to mobilize resources that might otherwise remain untapped. By promoting
participatory decision making, and by requiring commitments and contributions from communities and municipalities,
FHIS mobilizes additional resources for investments, and importantly, for maintenance. The promotion of participation
also helps build another kind of asset: social capital.
Economic Analysis of Subprojects.
Since the project is fully driven by community demand and basically a line of credit, no cost-benefit analysis has been
carried out for the full program. However, in line with its Operational Manual, and subject to minimum requirements
agreed with the relevant sector agencies, FHIS uses detailed technical criteria, standard designs, and simple economic
criteria (e.g., cost-per-beneficiary calculations) to determine subproject economic viability. This includes application of a
comprehensive list of unit costs by type of subproject and by region, which is being updated at least twice a year.
For education and health subprojects, which have comprised most of FHIS's investments, FHIS has detailed agreements
with the Ministries of Education and Health, respectively, on technical design and costs. It should be noted also that, for
reasons of effectiveness and cost efficiency, under the existing Bank-supported project for Basic Education, the Ministry of
Education has asked FHIS to manage the infrastructure financed under the project.
For its relatively small program of water supply, sanitation, and access roads, FHIS is again using minimum technical and
cost criteria. Some years ago, it did get a detailed consultant proposal (IDB-funded) on economic analysis of subprojects
with quantifiable benefits, but additional consultants (KfW-funded) agreed with FHIS that this was too complicated to
apply. Nonetheless, in light of expectations that the share of to be allocated to water supply, sanitation, and access roads
under the proposed project, it has been agreed that FHIS will introduce a systematic economic evaluation of its subprojects
in consultation with IDA. As mentioned above, this will be based largely on the results of the Bank's study to develop
Guidelines for Economic Analysis in Social Funds, and on the results of the ongoing FHIS Impact Evaluation Study.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 29
Country: Honduras                                                      Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Annex 5
Honduras
Fourth Social Investment Fund
Financial Summary
Years Ending Decemnber 31
(in US$ millions)
Implementation Period                         Operational Period
1998    1999    2000    2001    Total   2002    2003    2004    2005    2006
Project Costs
Investment Costs               10.7    40.2    40.1    29.5   120.5
Recurrent Costs                  1.3     5.3      5.4      4.0    16.0
Total                       12.0    45.5    45.5    33.5   136.5
Operation and Maintenance of                                                    2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0
completed subprojects'
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IDA                             54       35       37       17       33
Co-financiers2
KfW                             16       7        7        6        7
IDB (expected)                  0       35       37       51       37
Sweden                          3        5        5        9        6
OPEC                            5        6        3        1        4
Central Govermnent              22       12       12       16       14
Local Government3                                                             50      50       50       50       50
User Fees/Beneficiaries3                                                     50       50       50       50       50
Total                        100      100      100      100      100   I
'Assumes average operation and maintenance costs of 2% per year. According to experience under past phases of the FHIS program, and studies
carried out under the SIF m project and during preparation of the proposed SIF IV project, these costs are almost always borne by beneficiary
communities and local govermnents. Since the proportion of projects requiring new staff is expected to be low, no incremental staff salaries are
assumed for the purposes of this analysis. hn any case, as has been the case under previous phases of the FES program, for subprojects that do
entail an increase in Government expenditures on recurrent costs (i.e. incremental staff), prior endorsement of the subproject by relevant line
ministries would be required.
2Extenmal co-financing amounts are based on initial indications from these financial agencies. However, since all external co-
financing would be parallel rather than joint, no adverse effects on the Bank project would result if any external co-financing
amounts were to differ from these expected amounts.
3The cost estimates provided for subproject investments include only measurable financial costs incurred, and therefore exclude
certain cost items that are typically contributed by beneficiaries, and sometimes by local govermnents and/or NGOs, prior to
initiation of the works, such as land; unskilled labor for site clearing; certain materials; and certain prefeasibility studies. FH1S
estimates that such contributions average between 10% and 20%, and in the case of water and sanitation subprojects, where NGOs
often play a significant role in preinvestment activities, can be as high as 30%. Under the SIF IV project, FHIS has agreed to
document such contributions more consistently.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 30
Country: Honduras                                                Fourth Social hnvestment Fund Project
Annex 6
Honduras
Fourth Social Investment Fund
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (see Table A). Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with
IDA's guidelines on procurement of goods, works, and services, and using standard contract documents acceptable to IDA
(Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January/August 1996 and
September 1997; and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997,
revised September 1997). FHIS would manage or supervise all procurement actions under the project, based on agreed
procurement procedures reflected in its Operations Manual and the Project Implementation Plan.'
Small Works. Under the Subproject Financing and Pilot Program for Strengthening of Community and Rural Water
Systems components, FHIS would finance integrated small works (small social and economic infrastructure projects,
including corresponding equipment, furniture, materials, and technical services). These subprojects are typically small,
scattered, and located in remote areas. Small works contracts estimated to cost US$75,000 equivalent or more (up to
FHIS's maximum subproject size of US$500,000) would be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures. To the extent possible, contracts for subprojects would be combined in packages of US$50,000 or more, and
awarded on the basis of NCB. Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$75,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of US$16.9 million equivalent, could be procured on the basis of price quotations obtained from at least
three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.2 For works estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of US$50,000 per contract, in cases where competitive proposals cannot be obtained, Direct Contracting of local
contractors would be permitted, up to an aggregate amount of US$13.2 million.3 In the case of Direct Contracting, to
ensure fair pricing, FHIS would use, as a basis of negotiations with contractors, a well-tried system of regional, standard
unit prices, which is based on market prices and updated periodically.
NOTES. (a) In the interest of reducing uncertainties associated with increases in the prices of key inputs during the
implementation of subprojects, and to eliminate the need for FHIS to issue numerous adjustments to existing contracts to
compensate contractors for unexpected and large increases in such inputs, FHIS would be allowed to continue to apply a
polinomial price adjustment formula to all Subprojects, according to mechanisms and procedures described in the Project
Implementation Plan. (b) As part of the Institutional Strengthening subcomponent of the Project Management component, a
consultant would be hired to review and make recommendations for further improvements in FHIS's procurement
procedures. This would include recommendations to improve packaging of subprojects.
1 Under the Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening component, the project contemplates the possibility of fostering
greater participation by communities and/or local governments in procurement actions through decentralization of certain functions
and responsibilities, and granting of resources to carry out such functions and responsibilities, to these agents. A decision to move
forward with such an arrangement, as well as the details regarding application of such decentralized procurement procedures, would
be determined during implementation of the pilot components, and would be subject to prior agreement with the IDA. In the
meantime, FHIS will manage all procurement actions. In any case, any procurement of works, goods, and services that might
eventually be carried out under the project by communities and/or local governments would employ procedures, specifications, and
contract packaging acceptable to the IDA, in accordance with IDA Guidelines.
2 To foster even more competition than required by IDA under the "three price quotations" (cotizaci6n) modality, FHS has applied a
practice of publishing such invitations at the level of the municipality in which the works are to be carried out. This practice is
referred to in Honduras as "private competitive bidding" (licitaci6n privada).
3 Direct Contracting is expected to be used only in the poorest 86 municipalities in Honduras.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 31
Country: Honduras                                              Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Goods. Goods to be procured under the project would consist principally of vehicles, computer equipment, other office and
administrative equipment, and training materials. Contracts for goods estimated to cost more than US$150,000 would be
procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. To the extent possible, contracts for goods would be
combined in packages of US$150,000 or more and procured using ICB. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$150,000,
up to an aggregate amount of US$600,000 could be procured using NCB. For smaller purchases (contracts estimated to
cost less than US$50,000) of vehicles, computing equipment, and other major office equipment, International Shopping
procedures could be used, up to an aggregate of US$300,000. Contracts for other goods estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 could be awarded on the basis of National Shopping, up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000.
Consultant Services. As mentioned above, all consulting services would be procured following IDA's Consultant
Guidelines and using standard contracts. Consulting services to be procured under the project would include:
a) Capacity-building subprojects aimed at training in operations and maintenance, and institutional strengthening of
communities, local governments, and NGOs; and services for design and supervision of works subprojects. Contracts
for both of these types of services are expected to be quite small in size (typically US$5,000-10,000), these would be
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with Chapter V of IDA's Consultant Guidelines, or to firms using
Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications (SBCQ). Selection and payment of such contracts would follow
methodologies defined in FHIS's Operational Manual and PIP.
b) Technical Assistance for strengthening of FHIS's policies, practices, and operations. Contracts for these services
would also be relatively small (e.g., US$10,000-30,000), and would be awarded to individual consultants in accordance
with Chapter V of IDA's Consultant Guidelines, or to firms on the basis of SBCQ.
c) Consultant services under the External Auditing and the Monitoring and Evaluation subcomponents. Contracts for
these services would be awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
Annual Technical Assistance Plans. Prior to annual implementation reviews, FHIS would submit a plan for technical
assistance activities (including new consulting services, training, workshops, and study tours) to take place during the
following year. These plans would include draft terms of reference, estimated budgets, and expected recruiting/contracting
procedures to be followed.
Prior review thresholds (see Table B). Prior review by IDA would include: (a) procurement arrangements in accordance
with Appendix 1, paragraph 1 of the IDA Procurement Guidelines; (b) for Goods, all contracts procured using ICB and
NCB, and all contracts for vehicles, computer equipment, and office / administrative equipment above US$25,000; (c) for
Small Works, the first two NCB contracts, and all contracts valued at US$150,000 equivalent or more; (d) for Consultant
Services, (i) all terms of reference; (ii) all Single-Source Selection contracts; (iii) all contracts for individuals when the
contract value exceeds US$25,000 equivalent; and (iv) all contracts for firms when the contract value exceeds US$50,000
equivalent. The balance would be subject to ex-post review.
Prior review of an estimated 1 1% of the Credit is expected under these arrangements. This level of IDA prior review of
procurement is relatively low, but is considered acceptable in light of: (i) IDA's previous satisfactory experience with
FHIS; and (ii) audit arrangements for the project, which include quarterly and annual auditing by a qualified external firm,
including physical audits of subprojects, and verification that procurement guidelines are being respected. Periodic project
physical performance evaluations, and IDA supervision missions, would also look at procurement issues in the course of
random reviews of subprojects, including field visits.
Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (see Table C). The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed over a period of about three
years, to be completed by August 31, 2001. The project closing date would be February 28, 2002 (i.e., six months after
completion date). Disbursements would be in accordance with guidelines set out in IDA's disbursement handbook.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 32
Country: Honduras                                              Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Disbursements would be made against the following categories of expenditure: (a) Small Works Subprojects (93%);
(b) Goods, including vehicles, equipment, and materials (100% of foreign expenditures for imported goods, 100% of total
expenditures for locally-produced goods [ex-factory cost], and 89% of other local expenditures; (c) Technical Assistance:
100% of the cost of eligible training, workshops, learning materials, study tours, and consultant services. Retroactive
financing of up to US$4.5 million equivalent would be permitted for eligible expenditures under the project incurred as of
January 1, 1998, or within 12 months of the date of signing of the Credit Agreement, whichever date is later. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that no disbursements would be made against Subprojects (including small works as
well as local capacity-building subprojects) under either the Pilot Program for Strengthening of Community and Rural
Water Systems components, until the detailed design work called for in the technical assistance plan for that component has
been completed, satisfactory to IDA.
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs). Disbursements would be made on the basis of full documentation for all
expenditures made under contracts requiring prior review by IDA, as indicated in Table B; and contracts whose value
would be raised above the prior review limits as a result of amendments. For all other expenditures, disbursements would
be granted against SOEs for which supporting documents would be maintained by FHIS, and be available to IDA and
external auditors for review.
Special Account. In order to facilitate project implementation, the Government would establish a special account in US
Dollars at the Central Bank with an authorized allocation and initial advance of US$4.0 million, corresponding to the
average of four months of expenditures that are expected to be made from the account. FHIS will submit replenishment
applications on a monthly basis, or when 25% of the authorized allocation has been used, whichever occurs first. The
replenishment application will be supported by the necessary documentation: a bank statement of the Special Account and a
reconciliation of the Special Account against Bank records. The Special Account would be audited in conjunction with the
annual financial audit of the project.
Audits. FHIS would have the records and accounts of the project for each fiscal year, including the Special Account,
audited by independent and qualified external auditors, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and
procedures, and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. Certified copies of the audit reports would be furnished to IDA no
later than April 30 of each year, with updates based on interim auditing activities provided quarterly throughout the year.
As has been the case under the SIF III project, auditors' opinions would include the results of "operations audits", including
a review of subprojects both in execution and completed, covering both their processing and implementation. Auditors
would review individual contracts, ascertain compliance with the terms of contracts, inspect progress of works and reconcile
the physical progress with financial expenses incurred, and verify that procurement guidelines are being respected.
FHIS Financial Management Systems, and Conversion to LACI System of Disbursements. The project team reviewed
FHIS's financial management system and found it satisfactory. On the basis of this finding, FHIS agreed to take steps to
adapt its financial system in accordance with IDA's Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), with the goal of
eventually converting disbursement arrangements under the project to a LACI system. Under LACI, use of SOEs would be
replaced by a system whereby disbursements (including the amount of the advance to the Special Account) would be
granted to F1S1 on the basis of a set of agreed-upon quarterly reports detailing the financial, physical, and procurement
activities (historical and planned) under the project. During project preparation, FHS, in coordination with IDA financial
management experts, made adjustments to its management information system to enable the regular production of such
reports. Once IDA confirms FHIS's capacity to generate quarterly reports that are fully consistent with LACI principles
(expected in July/August 1998), the project will be considered by IDA for full conversion to LACI-style disbursements.
Conversion would require a request by the Borrower and approval by IDA's Loan Department, as well as a Credit
Agreement amendment--standard language for which has already been developed by IDA.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 33
Country: Honduras                                                  Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                       Procurement Method                    Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB         Other      N.B.F
1. Small Works Subprojects                     6.8         30.14       61.6           98.5
(6.3)      (28.0)                      (34.3)
2. Goods5                          0.5         0.6          0.4          0.36           1.8
(0.5)       (0.6)       (0.4)                       (1.5)
3. Technical Assistance
(a) Consultant Services                                     8.87        11.58         20.3
(8.8)                      (8.8)
(b) Training / Study Tours to                               0.49                        0.4
Improve FHIS Operations                                    (0.4)                       (0.4)
4. Miscellaneous
(a) FHIS Operating Costs                                                15.4           15.4
(b) Supplemental financing                                               0.05           0.05
for maintenance under Pilot
Program for Local
Institutional Strengthening
Component
Total                           0.5         7.4         39.7        88.910         136.5
(0.5)       (6.9)      (37.6)                      (45.0)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
4The following would be permitted: Procurement on the basis of three price quotations for contracts under US$75,000 equivalent,
up to an aggregate amount of US$16.9 million equivalent; and Direct Contracting for contracts under US$50,000, up to a combined
aggregate limit of US$13.2 million equivalent.
5 IDA-financed goods include approximately US$0. 1 million for office equipment and computers (for communities and local
governments) under the Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening; as well as US$1.4 million for vehicles, office equipment
and computers for FHIIS. These would be procured using ICB, NCB (contracts under US$150,000, to an aggregate limit of
US$600,000), International Shopping (vehicles, computer equipment, and major office equipment contracts under US$50,000, to an
aggregate limit of US$300,000), and National Shopping (other goods contracts under US$50,000, to an aggregate limit of
US$100,000).
6 Computer equipment for FHIS, expected to be financed by IDB.
' Includes (i) Subprojects for local capacity building, and works design and supervision services (US$6.5 million), to be awarded to
individual consultants, or to firms using Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications (SBCQ); (ii) External Auditing (US$0.3
million) and Monitoring & Evaluation (US$0.3 million), to be procured using QCBS; (iii) and TA to strengthen FEIS's policies,
practices, and operations (US$1.7 million), to be awarded to individual consultants, or to firms using SBCQ.
8 Includes subprojects for local capacity building, and works design and supervision services (US$10.9 million); a KfW-financed
resident technical assistance unit (US$0.5 million); and TA to strengthen FHIS's policies, practices, and operations (US$0.1
million).
9 Costs of travel, subsistence, tuition fees, rental space and equipment, and per diems for international and national study tours,
training, and workshops.
' 0Experience under previous projects with FHIIS have shown that co-financing agencies' procurement procedures are generally
consistent with IDA procedures, and would present no incompatibilities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 34
Country: Honduras                                            Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)             Method            Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior Review
US $ thousands
1. Small Works
Subprojects
275        NCB                   First two, and all
contracts above
US$150,000 /
US$3.0 mn
<75         3 Price Quotations   None
<50        Direct Contracting    None
2. Goods
All                           2150         ICB                   All / US$0.5 mn
All                           <150         NCB                   All / US$0.6 mn
Vehicles, computer             <50         International Shopping   All contracts above
equipment, and other                                             US$25,000 /
major office equipment                                           US$0.3 mn
Other Goods                    <50         National Shopping     None
3. Technical Assistance
(a) Firms            According to IDA      QCBS, Selection Based  All Single-Source
Guidelines       on Consultant         Selections and all
Qualifications, Single-  contracts above
Source Selection     US$50,000 /
US$0.6 mn
(b) Individuals      According to IDA      Individual Consultants   All contracts above
Guidelines                             US$25,000 /
US$0.1 mn
(c) Training / Study  N.A.                 N.A.                  N.A.
Tours to Improve FHIS
Operations
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$5.1 mn (11%)



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 35
Country: Honduras                                              Fourth Social Investnent Fund Project
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount in       Financing Percentage
US$million
1. Subprojects. Integrated small social and
economic infrastructure projects, including
corresponding equipment, furniture, materials and
technical services.
(a) Under the Subproject Financing component          31.5       93%
(b) Under the Pilot Program for Strengthening of       2.8       93%
Community and Rural Water Systems component
2. Goods. Vehicles, computer and office                 1.5      100% of foreign
equipment, and materials.                                        expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
89% of local
expenditures for other
items procured
locally
3. Consultants' Services and Training,
including workshops, learning materials, and
study tours.
(a) Under the Subproject Financing component           6.0       100%
(b) Under the Pilot Program for Strengthening of       0.5       100%
Comnmunity and Rural Water Systems component
(c) Under other parts of the Project                   2.7       100%
Total           45.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 36
Country: Honduras                                              Fourti Social Investment Fund Project
Annex 7
Honduras
Fourth Social Investment Fund
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Regular Budget                                      74.0                 65.6
Bank and Country Administered PHRD Funds          450.0                 189.3
Total
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          10                   11
First Bank mission (identification)             14/07/1997            14/07/1997
Appraisal mission departure                     05/04/1998            06/9/1998
Negotiations                                    05/11/1998           06/10/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   9/30/1998             10/30/1998
Prepared by: Honduran Social Investment Fund (FHIS)
Preparation assistance: PHRD grant (TF027076)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                         Specialty and/or Project Responsibility
David Warren                              Task Team Leader
Willem Struben                             Co-Task Manager
Sarah Quinn                               Project Assistant
Ana-Maria Arriagada                        Sector Leader
Charles Griffin                           Lead Specialist for Social Protection
Genaro Alarcon                            Project Counsel
Jaime Roman                               Procurement
Maria Lucy Giraldo                        Procurement
Lourdes Noel                              Procurement
Michael Fowler                            Disbursement
Livio Pino                                Financial Management
Daniel Boyce                              Financial Management
Steve Maber                               Water and Sanitation Specialist
Iris Medina                               Assistant, Honduras Liaison Office
Laura Rawlings                            Impact Assessment Specialist
Mauricio Mathov                           Sr. Information Officer - MIS
Michael Goldberg                          Micro-Credit (Advisor)
Alberto Harth                              Peer Reviewer/Technical Specialist
Alexandre Marc                            Peer Reviewer/Human Resources Specialist
Augusta Molnar                            Natural Resources Management Specialist,
(Advisor)
Anders Rudqvist                            Social Scientist (Advisor)
Jennifer Sara                              Water and Sanitation Specialist (Advisor)



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 37
Country: Honduras                                            Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Consultants who worked on the project
included:
Name                            Organization and/or Specialty
Anuschka Alvarez von Gustedt              Operations Analyst
Alfredo Stein                            Local Institutional Strengthening
Fernando Rojas                           Local Institutional Strengthening
Carmen Arevalo Correa                     Local Institutional Strengthening
Tony Brand                               Water and Sanitation
John Edwards                             Impact Evaluation
Gillete Hall                             Impact Evaluation
Sven Hertel                              Roads Engineer
Carmen Malena                             SociologistVNGO Expert
Marco Moncada                             Economic Analysis, Infrastructure
Rajeev Swami                              Financial Management
Natalia Royo-Llop                         Micro-credit
Joke Oranje                               Gender Specialist
Ximena Traa                              Indigenous Peoples Specialist
Pablo Schneider                          Project Implementation Planning
Carlos Chamorro                           Procurement
Ian Walker                                ESA Consultores, Impact Evaluation
Jose Rafael Del Cid                       ESA Consultores, Impact Evaluation
Fidel Ordonez Guzman                      ESA Consultores, Impact Evaluation
Cristiana Nufio de Figueroa              Local Institutional Strengthening
Ernesto Galvez                            Local Institutional Strengthening
Jos6 Bohanerges Mejia                     Local Institutional Strengthening
FHIS staff who worked on the project
included:
Name                        Specialty and/or Project Responsibility
Manuel Zelaya Rosales                     Minister-Director
Jacobo Lagos                              Director, International Cooperation
Marcial Maier Caceres                     Director, Planning
Rob van den Bogart                        Planning Advisor
Jose Young                                Director, Administration and Finance
Juan Ram6n Elvir                          Director, Projects
Cesar Salgado                             Senior Advisor
Maria Ponce                              Information Systems Specialist



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 38
Country: Honduras                                            Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Annex 8
Honduras
Fourth Social Investment Fund
Documents in the Project File*
*Including electronic files.
A. Project Implementation Documents
FHIS: Plan de Implementaci6n, April 1998.
B. Bank Staff and Consultant Assessments
Arevalo, Carmen: Notes on FHIS's Local Institutional Strengthening Strategy, December 1997.
Chamorro, Carlos: FHIS: Procurement, Costs, and the "F6rmula Polin6mica", June 1997.
Gilvez, Ernesto: Metodologfa de Planificaci6n Participativa a Nivel Local, February 1998.
Hall and Warren: Terminos de Referencia para una Evaluaci6n de Impacto del FHIS, December 1997.
Hertel, Sven: Report on FHIS Support for Road Construction, February 8, 1998.
L6pez, Manuel Antonio: Plan de Trabajo - Proyectos de Agua y Saneamiento Rural del FHIS, November 1996.
Maber, Steve: FHIS's Water and Sanitation Sector Strategy, October 1997.
Malena, Carmen: Back-to-Office Report on Social Assistance Programs, Honduras Fourth Social Investment
Fund Project Pre-Appraisal Mission, March 1998.
Mathov, Mauricio: Notes on MIS in FHIS, January 1998.
Mejia, Jose Bohanerges: Transferencia de Funciones y Responsabilidad a Municipalidades, February 1998.
Mejia, Jose Bohanerges, Cristiana Nufio de Figueroa y Ernesto Gilvez: Fortalecimiento Municipal - Programa de
Capacitaci6n, February 1998.
Moncada, Mario: Informacion y Requerimientos del Sector Social, December 1997.
Nufio de Figueroa, Cristiana: Capacidad Financiera de las Municipalidades para el Mantenimiento de Proyectos
y Mecanismos que Aseguren la Sostenibilidad de las Obras Financiadas por el FHIS, March 1996.
Nufio de Figueroa, Cristiana: Propiedad de las Obras de Infraestructura Social y Su Efecto en el Mantenimiento
de Proyectos -Rol de los Ministerios de Linea- Informe Final, September 1996.
Nufio de Figueroa, Cristiana: Esquema del Mantenimiento Preventivo de Centros Educacionales, Centros de
Salud Rural y Sistemas de Agua y Alcantarillado Sanitario, February 1998.
Oranje, Joke: Anelisis de Genero - FHIS. Resultados y Recomendaciones, April 1998.
Pino, Livio: Implementation of the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) in FEHIS, October 1997.
Rojas, Fernando: Comments on FHIS's Local Institutional Strengthening Strategy, December 1997.
Roman, Jaime: Honduras: Review of FHIS Contracting Practices, April 1998.
Schneider, Pablo: FHIS IV An6lisis Institucional, February 1998.
Stein, Alfredo: Notes on FHIS's Local Institutional Strengthening Strategy, December 1997.
Traa-Valarezo, Ximena: Evaluaci6n Social y Plan de Desarrollo de los Pueblos Aut6ctonos de Honduras (Social
Assessment), March 1998.
Webb, Anna K. V.: Women 's Training and Employment Component in Honduras Social Investment Fund (FHIS)
Infrastructure Projects, October 1997.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 39
Country: Honduras                                            Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
C. Project History Documents
Back-to-Office Report: Supervision of the Third Social Investnent Fund Project (Cr. 2766-HO), April 1997.
Back-to-Office Report: Supervision of the Third Social Investment Fund Project (Cr. 2766-HO) and Identification
of the Proposed Fourth Social Investment Fund Project (Task ID 48651), World Bank, August 1997.
Mid-Term Review for the Third Social Investment Fund Project (Cr. 2766-HO), World Bank, November 1997.
Project Concept Document, Proposed Fourth Social Investment Fund Project (Task ID 48651), World Bank,
January 1998.
Back-to-Office Report, Pre-Appraisal Mission for the Proposed Fourth Social Investment Fund Project (Task ID
48651), and Supervision of the Third Social Investment Fund Project, (Cr. 2766-HO) World Bank, March
1998.
D. Other
Carvalho, S.: Social Funds. Guidelines for Design and Implementation, World Bank Human Resources
Development and Operations Policy Working Paper No. 34, Washington, DC.
Glaessner, P., K. W. Lee, A. M. Sant' Anna, and J-J de St. Antoine: Poverty Alleviation and Social Investment
Funds. The Latin American Experience, World Bank Discussion Paper No. 261, Washington, DC.
Goodman, M., S. Morley, G. Siri, and E. Zuckerman: Social Investment Funds in Latin America: Past
Performance, and Future Role, Evaluation Office, Social and Sustainable Development, Inter-American
Development Bank, Washington, D. C., March 1997.
FIHlS: Informe de Avance FHIS II (1994-199 7), January 1 998.
FHIS: FHIS III - La Nueva Agenda Social, February 1998.
FHIS: Cuadros de Informaci6n Gerencial, February 1998.
FIHIS: Guta para la Elaboraci6n de Planes de Inversi6n a Nivel Comunal y Municipal.
FlHlS: Manual de Operaciones.
Narayan, D. and K. Ebbe: Design of Social Funds. Participation, Demand Orientation, and Local Organizational
Capacity, World Bank Discussion Paper No. 375, Washington, DC.
Secretaria de Planificaci6n Coordinaci6n y Presupuestos. Direcci6n General de Estadistica y Censos: Programa de
Encuesta de Hogares - Decimosexta Encuesta Permanente de Hogares, September 1996.
World Bank: Trends in Developing Countries, Washington, DC, 1996.
World Bank: World Development Indicators, Washington, DC, 1997.
World Bank: Honduras: Improving Access, Efficiency, and Quality of Care in the Health Care Sector, World
Bank Report No. 17008-HO, October 31, 1997



Project Appraisal Documnent                                                         Page 40
Country: Honduras                                              Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Annex 9
Honduras
Fourth Social Investment Fund
Social Assessment and Indigenous Peoples Participation Plan
A social assessment was carried out between November, 1997 and February, 1998 by a World Bank consultant with the
support of FHIS, and in direct consultation with CONPAH (Confederation of Autochthonous (indigenous)l Peoples of
Honduras), FITH (Tawahka), COPIN (Lenca), ON1HL (Lenca), FETRDXY (Tolupdn) CONICHH (Chorti), OFRANEH
(Gartfuna), FETRIPH (Pech), MASTA (Miskito), and the Confederation 's legal advisor CAHDEA The study included:
(1) a series of interviews with Directives of each Federation, and a group consultation with representatives of all the
Federations; (2) a Rapid Rural Appraisal (beneficiary assessment, focus groups and interviews) of FH[S program Nuestras
Raices at Lenca, Chorti, Garifuna, Pech and Miskito villages; and (3) review of literature and social indicators.
This annex is divided into three sections, providing: (i) a summary of the major conclusions and reconmmendations reached
by the social assessment2; (ii) a brief history of FHIS's program Nuestras Raices I; and (iii) the Indigenous Peoples
Participation Plan within the framework of the new project.
SECTION 1: SOCIAL ASSESSMENT - MAIN CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
1. Cultural Diversity. The indigenous peoples of Honduras constitute 11.5% of the total population. Their diverse origin
(Mesoamerican, African, and South American) bring together multicultural, multietnic and multilingual wealth in terms of
cultural heritage. Demand-driven projects designed to improve their standard of living should make an effort to (i)
understand their diversity; (ii) alleviate poverty while increasing their social capital, and (iii) preserve their cultural heritage
(especially their language). The eight indigenous groups are: Chorti (17,000), Lenca (217,000), Garifuna (175,000),
English-speaking Black (22,600), Pech (2,700), Tolupanes (120,500), Tawahkas (916), and Miskitos (40,000).
2. Poverty Indicators. The worst poverty indicators in the country coincide with municipalities which have a large
number of indigenous population (and/or peasants of indigenous descent, i.e. Lenca). Illiteracy rates exceed 70% in some
indigenous communities, 38% of school-age children are not registered at a school, health coverage is low (8,500 people per
CESAR3 and 30,000 per CESAMO4). Only 40% of the indigenous have access to potable water. Use of wood-fuel is
generalized in 100% of households, with detrimental consequences on health and environment, especially among women and
children.
3. Targeting the poor. FHIS's efforts to target the poor (which coincide with the indigenous) are noteworthy. The
poverty map and sectoral targeting are adequate mechanisms to identify the poorest communities. Although identification is
accurate, Federations feel much needs to be done in order to respond to their prioritized needs. The social assessment
recommends strategies to acknowledge and respond to prioritized needs of the different ethnic groups.
4. Nuestras Rafces, "Caminos para la Produccidn". The beneficiary assessment carried out on this particular FIHS
program indicates high levels of overall satisfaction among indigenous and non-indigenous beneficiaries. The social
assessment recommends to continue Nuestras Ra{ces with few modifications: (i) selection of beneficiary communities
should be done through ethnic federations / organizations, (ii) training on productive activities i.e. community banks, micro-
'In the light of O.D. 4.20 the term "indigenous" includes, in the context of Honduras, eight ethnic groups of diverse origin:
Lenca, Chorti of Mesoamerican origin, Miskito, Tawahka, Tolupanes and Pech of Chibcha (South-American) descent, and
Garifuma and English-speaking Black population of African origin.
2see Social Assessment and IPPP (World Bank, March 1998) for greater detail.
3 Centro de Salud Materno-Infantil.
4 Centro de Salud RUral.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 41
Country: Honduras                                              Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
enterprises should be done in the local languages, prior to payment disbursement, (iii) disbursed moneys should be delivered
in public fora before municipal and ethnic authorities, (iv) other alternatives to road construction/rehabilitation may be
obsemed, i.e. ditch opening for agricultural purposes, navigation canals opening on the Atlantic coast.
'5. Ethnic Development Plans. In compliance with O.D. 4.20 Participatory Rural Appraisals were suggested to the
different Indigenous Federations. Under ILO's Accord No. 169, these Federations claimed "their right to decide their own
priorities in development, since their lives, beliefs, and institutions may be affected in this process.5" The Federations
requested FHIS's support to formulate ethnic plans. The social assessment recommends that FHIS support the Federations'
initiatives with (i) technical assistance; and (ii) financial assistance to comply with their goal to formulate ethnic plans.
Ethnic plans shall provide a useful head start as each municipality awaits its turn to formulate the Social Municipal
Investment Plans for Honduras for the period 1998-2003.
6. Access to FHIS's sub-projects menu. Although FHIS's menu is appropriate for meeting a range of prioritized needs
of the indigenous communities, it needs to be made accessible to all potential beneficiaries. To this end, two
recommendations have been made: (i) translation of the menu to indigenous languages, and (ii) an information dissemination
campaign in local languages, which includes beneficiary training on how to access FHIS's sub-projects.
7. The decision making process. The social organization of each ethnic group is key in the decision-making process,
project prioritization and project sustainability. Decisions regarding the identification and prioritization of projects are
usually made at the municipal level (through cabildos, CODEMs, and Consejos Municipales) with representation from the
communities. The social assessment recommends mechanisms be put in place to secure that (i) indigenous communities are
legitimately represented at these instances by both men and women; and (ii) the number of prioritized projects bears a direct
relationship to the percentage of indigenous population in the municipality. To this end, the Participation Plan includes
Workshops with Municipal Governments and Indigenous Federations / Organizations to decide on mechanisms to be used to
achieve those goals.
8. Women and community participation. Despite cultural differences, gender issues run across ethnic groups with the
exception of the Garifuna, which is a matriarchy. FHIS's program "Women in Construction" demonstrates women's level
of interest and capabilities to participate mainly in project implementation and maintenance but not in the decision making
process. The social assessment recommends that FHIS's new Community Participation Strategy include mechanisms to
allow women to (i) be included in the Municipal Council, (ii) be selected to represent the community in the identification,
formulation, implementation and supervision of projects. To allow women's participation, childcare arrangements may be
promoted by the project among volunteer community-based organizations.
9. Training. Since beneficiary training is a mechanism institutionalized by FHIS at different stages of the project cycle
and also for Nuestras Raices, the social assessment recommends a series of Workshops: (i) Training of FHIS's subproject
beneficiaries, municipal governments and indigenous federations on FHIS's menu, how to access and benefit from
subprojects, (ii) Training of communities on local participatory planning and project management (incl. Nuestras Raices),
(iii) Training for project maintenance. It also recommends strategies be observed to ensure (a) indigenous peoples are
nominated by their communities as trainees; (b) the number of women selected is representative of the number of women in
the community. Childcare arrangements may also be promoted for training activities.
SECTION 2: NUESTRAS RAICES.
In 1995, FHIS launched Nuestras Raices with the overall objective of meeting the priority social and economic
infrastructure needs of the indigenous groups in Honduras. More specifically, this program finances an initiative referred to
as "Caminos para la Produccion", whereby beneficiary communities contribute with and are paid for sixteen days of labor
5 lnternational Labour Organization, Accord Nr. 169, ratified by the Government of Honduras in 1995. Editorial Guaymuras, pg.
18.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 42
Country: Honduras                                            Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
for the opening up and/or rehabilitation of rural access roads. In addition to payment for their labor, FHIS provides
beneficiaries training on productive activities such as microenterprises, communal banks and small stores.
Since 1995, FHIS has successfully implemented two phases of Nuestras Rakces and benefited more than 65,000 families in
91 municipalities. A total of 7,700 rural access roads have been opened or rehabilitated, and more than 300 productive
activities have been initiated. Brief ex-post evaluations carried out by FHIS and the World Bank suggest that the
implementation of a new phase of the program (Nuestras Raices Ill) would help meet the demand for seedfunding for
productive activities among the indigenous groups.
SECTION 3: INDIGENOUS PEOPLES PARTICIPATION PLAN (IPPP).
The IPPP was formulated during a Pre-appraisal Mission in February, 1998 jointly by FHIS, representatives of Indigenous
Federations and the World Bank.
Legal framework. The present IPPP complies with WB O.D. 4.20 and the International Labor Organization Accord No.
169, which reads "Indigenous peoples must be consulted by the Government and other organizations on any provisions
which may affect them directly. Said peoples must participate in the formulation, implementation and evaluation of national
and regional development plans which may affect them directly."6 It is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy for
Honduras and the Government's Social Plan.
Operational framework. The following premises underlie the Participation Plan:
* Coordination and consultation. All activities must be consulted and coordinated by FHIS with the various
Indigenous Federations/ Organizations before implementation.
* Community participation in project prioritization at the municipal level should reflect the number of indigenous
peoples and of women in the municipality. It will rely on FHIS's participatory planning strategy, as described in the Local
Institutional Strengthening component.
* Training. Training workshops will be designed to consult with stakeholders and provide targeted beneficiaries with
tools and mechanisms needed to access, formulate and implement FHIS sub-projects.
* Preservation of cultural heritage. Special care should be given to preservation of local languages, medicinal
practices, arts, and oral traditions as they may be affected by subprojects.
Main objectives of the IPPP
1. To create mechanisms by which indigenous communities can access and fully benefit from FHIS's infrastructure and
social assistance sub-projects, particularly Nuestras Raices.
2. To strengthen the community participation mechanisms of municipalities with indigenous population to ensure the
Local Social Development Plans and Ethnic Plans are considered in the formulation of the Municipal Plans. Participatory
mechanisms must be observed to ensure legitimate representation of all stakeholders (women, churches, NGOs, traditional
authorities) in the decision-making process.
3. To promote coordination of the municipal government with indigenous federations for the prioritization of subprojects
for the Municipal Plans.
4. To support the Indigenous Federations' / Organizations' efforts to strengthen their institutional, organizational and
administrative capacities.
6dem, pg. 19.



Project Appraisal Dounment                                                            Page 43
Country: Honduras                                               Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
The Participation Plan
The following concrete actions have been agreed upon:
1. Updating of ethnic map (geographic location, ethnic population). To be done in conjunction with Indigenous
Federations / Organizations.
2. Training workshops on FHIS's menu of infrastructure and social assistance sub-projects for potential beneficiaries in
municipalities with indigenous population. Techniques on project identification, prioritization, fornulation, implementation,
evaluation and maintenance will be taught. Workshops will be conducted in local languages as needed (Spanish, Miskito,
Garifuna, Pech, Chorti, Tol, Creole English) Training will be conducted by either NGOs, private contractors, or FHIS staff.
3. Training workshops (in local languages) for communities and municipalities in the basic principles of local
participatory planning (this activity is contemplated under the Local Institutional Strengthening component).
4. Training workshops by either NGOs, private contractors or FHIS staff for representatives of the indigenous federations,
community organizations and municipal governments on the implementation policies and procedures, and selection criteria
for Nuestras Raices HI.
5. Training (in local languages) for beneficiaries of Nuestras Raices III in organization and management of productive
activities (microenterprises, community banks, etc.).
6. Ex-ante and ex-post project impact evaluation.
7. Support to be provided to each Federation for the formulation of Ethnic Plans. Technical and partial financial
assistance may be provided by FFHS to individual Federations which present a proposal and a budget.
8. Encounter of Municipal governments and Indigenous Federations to agree on community participation strategy for
prioritization of projects which will integrate the Municipal Plan.
Participation Plan
Initiative            Activities                        Date of initiation   Cost US$
Elaboration of Ethnic   *  Identification of precise location, June 15, 1998  6,000.00
Map                      number and ethnicity of
indigenous population.
Translation of FHIS's   *  Translations to indigenous   April 15, 1998       3,500.00
menu and manuals to      languages of FIHIS guide for
indigenous languages.    project identification and
prioritization; and menu.
*  Translation to indigenous
languages of road maintenance
manuals for Nuestras Ratces III
Training workshops on  *  Training indigenous           July, 1998          25,000.00
FHS's general menu       communities, in local languages.
(infrastructure and   *  Done by NGOs, contractors or
social assistance).      FFHS staff.
Local Participatory   *  Workshops contemplated under   1998- (2002)       Costs covered
in Pilot Program
Planning.                the Local Institutional                          for LoesiInstit
Strengthening component.      __Strening.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 44
Country: Honduras                                               Fourth Social Investnent Fund Project
Training workshops for *  Design of training manual and    June 15, 1998      6,000.00
Nuestras Raices Il       workshops
beneficiaries on
organization and
management of
productive activities
Training workshops for *  Selection criteria and taining  July 1, 1998       80,000.00
beneficiaries on          plan
implementation policies  *  Design of training manual
and procedures, as well *  Design of workshops
as selection criteria for  *  Organization of workshops
Nuestras Ra{ces 1LU.
Nuestras Raices Ll    *  Design of ex-ante and ex-post    June 1, 1998        4,500.00
hmpact Evaluation        indicators
Support for Ethnic    *  Technical support.             On demand            80,000.00
Plans (PRAs) by       *  Partial Financial support based
Indigenous                on Proposals from Federation.
Federations.
Encounter of municipal *  Workshop to discuss strategies   TBA               10,000.00
government and            for prioritization of projects
indigenous federations.   which integrate the municipal
plan.                         _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _
TOTAL COST                                                           US$  215,000.00
Total costs of component:
Technical assistance, workshops, consultancies, materials and studies        215,000.00
Nuestras Raices (inc. training)                                            3,500,000.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 45
Country: Honduras                                            Fourti Social Investment Fund Project
Annex 10
Honduras
Fourth Social Investment Fund
History and Achievements of FHIS
The purpose of this report is to provide a brief summary of the history and achievements of FHIS. It draws mainly from
information presented in the November 6, 1997 report on the Mid-Term Review for the Third Social Investment Fund
Project (Cr. 2766-HO).
I.    Background
The Government of Honduras established FHIS in 1990 as a temporary agency to help mitigate the potentially serious
impact of economic adjustment on the poor. Originally, FHIS was viewed as a transitional safety net instrument that would
provide a rapid response to a critical poverty situation until the line ministries strengthened their institutional capacities.
FHIS's mandate was to finance subprojects for social and economic infrastructure, social services, and informal sector
activities which would generate employment and protect and improve the standard of living in poor communities.
Resources were targeted at the poorest and most vulnerable population groups.
When the government administration changed in January 1994 it extended the life of FHIS from 1995 to 2002, and renamed
the institution "FHIS II". The FHIS mandate was altered from a focus on short-term social compensation to an emphasis on
medium-term social investment. FHIS II was to serve as an implementing arm of the line ministries in the management and
financing of priority small and medium-scale social and economic infiastructure subprojects, as well as to find priority
programs in basic needs (including social assistance programs for disadvantaged and underserved groups, including street
children, women, the elderly and handicapped, and ethnic minorities) and a microcredit program. The mandate was
expanded to include greater emphasis on community participation as well as coordination with and the strengthening of
local governments, in order to improve the prospects for subproject sustainability.
Since its creation, FHIS has been directly supported by the international community, including by IDA under the First,
Second, and Third Social Investment Fund Projects (Cr. 2210-HO for US$20 million in 1991, Cr. 2401-HO for US$10.2
million in 1992, and Cr. 2766-HO for US$30 million in 1995). It was estimated that the bulk of financing resources in
FH[S II, US$ 100 million, or about 90 percent of estimated total project costs would be for financing a range of priority
small-scale social and economic infrastructure and basic needs subprojects, sponsored by municipalities, community
organizations, and NGOs and selected in consultation with relevant government entities. The remaining ten percent of
project resources were to be used for institutional strengthening of FHIS (US$0.8 million), social data collection and
analysis (US$0.1 million), and project management (US$10.8 million).
II.    Findings
As shown in Table 1, FHIS was successful in mobilizing US$102.6 million for FElS II from external financing sources.
About 66 percent of funds mobilized for FHIS II investments were disbursed as of September 30, 1997. Funds for the third
IDA Credit were 88 percent disbursed as of the same date.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 46
Country: Honduras                                                          Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Table 1. FHJS Financing
Source                           Appraisal Estimates       Resources Mobilized
Government of Honduras           11.20                     8.84
IDA                              30.00                     30.00
IDB                              40.60                     40.60
KfW                              10.00                     10.00
OPEC                             5.00                      10.00
Others a/                        10.60                     12.02
Subtotal                         107.40                    111.45
Beneficiaries                    5.00                      n.a.
TOTAL                            112.40
Source: FHIS, October 1997.
Note: Amounts refer to original dollar values of financing, and are not adjusted for changes in those values due to exchange rate fluctuations.
a/ Includes Min. of Education, Min. of Envimrnent, Miijl of Heah, and other Bilateral Donors.
FHIS has become the principal, and in some subsectors exclusive, Government instrument for financing small scale civil
works projects in the social sectors. As of October 1997, FHIS had approved a total of about 9,300 subprojects at a cost of
about US$182 million. The FHIS HI program has been moving rapidly ahead, with nearly 90 percent (US$87 million) of
total planned subproject financing committed, and about two thirds (US$67 million) of planned disbursements having taken
place by mid-October 1997. FHIS has proved to be a quick-disbursing mechanism (averaging disbursernents of over
US$2.5 million per month during 1997) able to finance good quality sub-projects in the social sectors. Operating expenses
have represented about 11 percent of total outlays during 1997. FHIS has been able to process subproject requests, from
receipt of an eligible subproject request to initiation of implementation, in about five months. The average subproject
implementation period has also been five months during 1997.
The FHIS II program has strengthened FHIS institutionally and increased its ability to implement its program efficiently. As
shown in Tables 2 and 3, FElIS has been successful in applying poverty targeting mechanisms to reach the poorest
communities. Important progress has been made in reaching rural municipalities (which have received 73 percent of total
investments allocated by FHIS H between 1994 and October 1997), in enhancing the role of women, and expanding the
benefits of the program to indigenous peoples.
Table 2. Po erty Targeting of FHIS Investments Approved)
Poverty      Population   % of Total Investment  % of Total Investment             US$ Per Capita Investment
Ranking1    (%)            Amount (Approvals)    Amount (Approvals)                Amountk(Approvals)
1990-93 (F1HIS 1)       1994-October 1997 (FEIIS        1994-October 1997 (FHIS
_ _ _   _ _ _   _   _    _    _   _     ~~~~~~~~~~~11)                II)
Very Poor    19.85         18.99                    27.17                          26
Poor         20.87         17.31                    21.07                          21
Deficient    24.19         21.87                    22.04                          17
Subtotal     64.91         58.17                   70.27                           64
Regular      26.43         32.15                    24.09                          14
Acceptable   8.66          9.68                    5.64                            13
Subtotal     35.09         41.83                   29.73                          27
Total        100.00        100.00                   100.00
Source: FHIS.
' FHI's targeting system is based on a classification of municipalities into five poverty categories, according to the results of a formula incorporating key social indicators:
(i) access to water supply, (ii) child malnutrition; and (iii) access to basic sanitation services.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 47
Country: Honduras                                                           Fourth Social Investnent Fund Project
Table 3. FHIS Investments (Approvals) by Sector.
Sector                         1990-93                 1994-October 1997        TOTALS
(HIS)                   (MPIS
Value       %           Value        %           Value       %
Education
Amount (US$ Thousands)    $54,988    60%              $49,545    55%           $104,533   58%
No. of Subprojects           3207         64%         2736        64%          5943        64%
Water Supply & Sanitation
Amount (US$ Thousands)    $8,977          10%         $15,581     17%          $24,558     14%
No. of Subprojects           171          3%          325         8%           496         5%
Health
Amount (US$ Thousands)    $12,298         13%         $13,725     15%          $26,023     14%
No. of Subprojects           522          10%         702         16%          1224        13%
Municipal and Community
Infrastructure a/
Amount (US$ Thousands)    $11,151         12%         $8,536      90/0         $19,687     11%
No. of Subprojects           892          18%         386         9%           1278        14%
Social Assistance b/
Amount (US$ Thousands)    $3,292          4%          $2,395      3%           $5,687      3%
No. of Subprojects           182          4%          120         3%           302         3%
Environment
Amount (US$ Thousands)    $519            1%          $533        1%           $1,052      1%
No. of Subprojects           39           1%          13          0%           52          1%
TOTAL
Amount (US$ Thousands)    $91,225         100%        $90,315     100%         $181,540   100%
No. of Subprojects           5013         100%        4282        100%         9295        100%
Source: FHIS and Staff Calculations.
Note: Table excludes two separately managed, but affiliated special programs: (i) informal credit programs financed under PASI/PROCATMER; and (ii) a program of
larger infrastructure projects in 22 cities fmanced under the AID sponsored Employment Generation Program.
a/ Includes access roads and streets, drainage ditches, municipal markets and conservation of historical monuments.
b/ Training for sustainability of social infirstructure projects are no longer included in this category, but rather are included inthe relevant infastructure category. Also,
basic needs subprojects related to school furniture and Istrine construction are included in infiastructure (education and health respectively).
EHIS investments have had a favorable impact on economic indicators by contributing to government investment and direct
employment. Table 4 shows a breakdown of FHIS participation in the country's GDP.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 48
Country: Honduras                                                            Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Table 4. PHIS Participation in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). 1990-1996.
(US$ Millions)
Gross Domestic Product       1990      1991       1992      1993       1994       1995 a/   1996 b/   Total
Agriculture                  467.82    588.51    593.13    626.53    678.49    807.92    658.78    4421.18
Industrial Manufacture       340.72    438.33    518.94    539.44    496.91       594.89    623.33    3552.56
Construction                 107.28    137.96    191.51    227.42      168.95    206.90      152.76    1192.78
Transport & Communications   131.39    168.33    189.17    174.19    148.84    171.25    129.26    1112.43
Commerce                    240.92    290.18    318.04    320.91    290.90    360.54    327.34    2148.83
Public Administration        152.14    194.44    214.26    235.53      191.17    221.99    c/          1209.53
Services                    241.10    266.85    307.58    329.81    290.78    370.61    281.94    2088.67
Other d/                    403.71    503.32    579.05    589.07    541.11    670.13    1193.73   4480.12
Indirect Taxes              258.11    433.14    481.76    498.54    474.46    558.92   ce              2704.93
Total                       2,343.19   3,021.06   3,393.44   3,541.44   3,281.61   3,963.15   3,367.14   22,911.03
PHIS Investment
Amount                       2.26      24.99      30.45     33.52      7.75       32.15     30.39      161.51
FIS Investment as % of    0.10%       0.83%      0.90%     0.95%      0.24%      0.81%     0.90%      0.70%
GDP                          _  _ _      _  _ _   _  _  _     _  _  _  _  _  _                          _  _  _
Public Social Sector         178.90    207.26    246.75    249.21    231.40    303.14    280.47    1,697.13
Expenditure e/
FIIS Investment as % of      1.25%     10.76%    10.98%    11.86%    3.24%        9.59%     9.78%      8.69%
Social Sector Expenditures
Exchangeratesused: US$1=   5.35        5.40       5.54      6.41       8.55       9.14       11.96
Lps.                                   I__ _I
Source: FHIS, Central Bank, Ministry of Finance, and Staff Calculations. March 1997.
Note: Table excludes two separately managed, but affiliated, special programs: (i) infonnal credit programs financed under PASI/PROCATMER; and (ii) a program of
larger infiatnucture projects in 22 cities financed under the AID sponsored Employment Generation Program.
a/ Preliminaly
b/ Eitimated
c/ Included in "Other".
d/ "Oher" includes: Mining, electricity, gas and water, financial institutions, insurance, goods and services rendered to firms, and real estate ownership.
c/ Includes FHIS expenditures, as well as other education and health expenditures, labor and social insurance, INFOP, JNBS, INJUPEMP, PRAF, FOSOVI.



Annex 11
Status of Bank Group Operations in Honduras
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS M4illions                 and actual               Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                    disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Credit      Year               Borrower                     Purpose
No.                                                                          IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed   Orig    Frm Rev d    Dev Obj           Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 68
Active Loans
HN-PE-7388   IDA 24580    1993  GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS             TRNSPRT SCTR RHB              0.00      65.00             0.00         12.35      11.40       0.00       S             S
HN-PE-7392   IDA 24520    1993  GOVERNMENT                         NUTRITION/HLTH                0.00      25.00             0.00          1.36        .54       0.00       S             S
HN-PE-1399   IDA 26940    1995  GOVT OF HONDURAS                   BASIC EDUCATION               0.00      30.00             0.00         19.90      10.20       0.00       S             S
HN-PE-7396   IDA 26930    1995  GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS             ENVIRON. DEVELOPMENT          0.00      10.80             0.00          7.84       6.83       3.80       U             U
HN-PE-7387   IDA 28160    1996  REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS               PUB SEC MOD SAC              0.00       55.00             0.00         31.28      33.90       0.00       S             s
HN-PE-34607  IDA 28140   1996  REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS                PUB SEC MOD TAC               0.00       9.60             0.00          5.09       2.22       0.00       S             S
NN-PE-37709  IDA 27660    1996  GOVERNMENT-HONDURAS                SOC INV FUND III              0.00      30.00             0.00          2.58      -5.94       0.00       S             S
HN-PE-1398   IDA 29400    1997  GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS            RURAL LAND MGMT               0.00       34.00             0.00         30.47       6.30       1.30       HS            HS
HN-PE-7387   IDA 28162    1997  REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS               PUB SEC MOD SAC              0.00       20.10             0.00         18.79      18.79       0.00       S             S
HN-PE-7387   IDA 28163    1998  REPUBLIC OF HNDURAS                PUB SEC MOD SAC               0.00      14.20             0.00         13.56      13.56       0.00       S             S
Total                                                                                            0.00     293.70             0.00        143.22      97.80       5.10
Active Loans       Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRM and IDA):           135.67           14102.49             1,238.16
Of which has been repaid                  0.00             478.83               418.83
Total now hold by IBRD and IDA:           300.70           614.90               915.60
Amount sold                               0.00             4.46                 4.46                                                                                                                0
Of which repaid                           0.00             4.46                 4.46
Total Undisbursed                         143.22           0.00                 143.22
a.    Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b.     Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU -
highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.                                                                                                                           e
.S  (



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                           Page 50
Country: Honduras                                                                      Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Annex 12
Honduras at a glance                                                                8197
POVEKRTYad SOCIAL:A:e.-a.'w
~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  n.   :.     .:..-- :    ..-.-.:
oU.uraJ &. ... -. .   I    e      Development dlamond
P@putatl-: . . 4fl(nws                  -              .1       48  1,Z2-.9
*,s,,,, ,,,, ,,, : ~.... .. ...... .... .. .. :
Gl# per capIa 1998 (S . . .........500                                                Life expectancy
:NP M                                                 . 9     .--0       1        GP0r
. - -   . - }  -   ...... .              3~~~~~~~~~......  .23 ..  1.. -
Avill"eAnnal reti1O
Poptia     J                                                     1.7 ' 1  ',. -GNP                                Gross
o.   or   (                  .     ........7                                      per                           primary
Moat recent eStImate j7e.fe.t)ata~wteh/eeIrpce 1880)capita                               enrollment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.               .   .   Zw.X    . . . . . . . . . .......--. .  7  ftwe e 
PctWremri   - --                                         ..... . : : ,.   .
intant ~~~~~~~~~                45        37       89 ~~~~~~~~~Access to safe water
Apeesrosah%o(pcpule.a. - 70 -                                    80       :53
13     .34                Hnua
= aacy_'aon   ','                         i'.2,'=   ' 1-0,,  :105                     -,  ndutas
,',,X,,b' ,','' ,--': -', ,: :,:,'A'                     ., .    '     '-:',-'''1'''---'':''12,-' L w-inwwg up
Female                                ~~~~~~~~112          9
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS #hd LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978     1885      199      1996
GDP( (bi  sUSS)                               1.1      3.6.      4.0      4       Economlcratlos
Grolawdomestic netstGP19.0                            173.3:  :31.0.    32.0
E    Cs of _oods:and        P               30.7    24.3   -  , 38.3     41,-,,43,2 0  -   Openness of economy
Gros domtIc svings/GOIP                      10.0     11.7      22.-   21.2
Gross national savings/GD1P                   1.0    86.9       24.S9    27.0'-.
currnt account baiance/GDP                  -11.5     -9.7      -7.3    -6.6
Interst paymenW tsGOP                         1.4      2.8       4.8      4.7     Savings                      Investment
TotaldeWGP                                   33.9    75.0      116.5   101.9
Total d  tsevia/eports                       13.2    24.7      '28.1     24.2
Pent value of debUGDP                          ..       ..      94.2
Present valued of dbeocw ts                    ..       ..    206.1                            Indebtedness
1975-85  1966-96    1995       1996  1997.0
(apere annual grWt:)                                                                     -Honduras
GDP                                 3.6      3.5      4.3        3.0      5.0               Low-hcom goup
GNP per capita                     40.1      OA        1.1       0.8      2.3
Expotsofgoodsand sefvies            2.7      1.0     11.0       14.6      6.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
197S    19SS       199S    199S       Growthrats ofoutputandinvestment(%)
AgrIcuture                                  27.3      21.9      20.4    20.5      30
Ilnduty                                     24.9    24.0        25.4     25.2
ManufacturIng                              15.7     14.5      16.7    15.9 ;      '
ServIce                                     47.8     54.2       54.2      4.3         o
ol   92   03   04 
Private consumption                          77.7    75.2       68.5     69.3    .15
Genea government consumption                 12.4    13.1        9.4      9.5               -oo         - 0   GDP
Impoit of goods and sec                     39.7    29.9        47.2    52.2
197645  1984-9,       1996     1996
(p1ege annual g                                                                   Growth ratas of exports and Impors (%)
AgrIulture                                    3.1      3.6       8.8      2.9      20
Industry                                      4.0     4.1        5.2      3.1
Manufaturing                                3.0      3.3       5.5      4.6      10-
ServIces                                     4.1       3.2       1.9      3.1      a
PrIvate conumption                            3.7      3.0       6.2      1.9    -10       1    nr
General government consumption                3A      -1.1      -1.8      1.6
Grossdomestic Investment                     -0.9     11.3     -11.1      1.9    .20
Impots of goods and services                  0.1      3.4      -2.5    10.5                  -Expors    O   Impod
Gro  national product                         3.5      3.4       4.2      2.7   I
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in ialics are for year other than those specified.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing. the diamond vwll
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Documernt                                                                                           Page 51
Country: Honduras                                                                       Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1988      1995      1996
Domestle pHces                                                                     Inflation (%
(% change)                                                                         40
Consumer prices                               8.4      3.4       29.5     23.8    30
Implicit GDP deflator                         6.4      5.2       25.5     23.8    20
Govenment fflnnce                                                                   o 
(6of GOP)
Current revenue                                       22.0       29.9     30.6             91   92    93   94   e5 9S
Current budget balance                                 1.3        5.3      4.8              -     GOP def.   0     cPI
Overall surplustdercit                                 6 .9      -3.4      -2.5
TRADE
1975     1985      1995      1996
(milliWons USS)                                                                    Export and Import bvels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                    796      1,193    1,284
Bananas                                              274        214      255
Coffee                                               185        349      320      1500
Manufactures                                  ..
Total imnports (6il)                           ..      976      1,66'5   1,811     1,000
Food                                          ..     141        214      232hD lfF 1 IF H I
Fuel and energy                                      159        222      232       500
Capital goods                                 ..     182        374      399
Expottpriceindex(1987ul00)                              93        114      111           90  SI  92  93  94  95   9
Importpriceindex(1987-100)                             114        124      124                oExpots    Oimports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                               81         92       90
BALANCE ot PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1996      1996
(millions USS)                                                                      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and servces                  344      909      1,455    1.572                         -
Imports of goods and services                 446    1,085      1,852    2,098          90  91  92   93   94
Resource balance                             -101     -175       -397     *526
Net income                                    .29     -190        -19       -7      -s
Net current transfers                           0       13        128      253                        I   |
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers          *130      -353      -288      -280    -10
Financing items (net)                         184      336        404      343
Changes in net reserves                       -54       17       -116      -63     -1-
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)            97      111       270       257
Conversion rate (locai/USS)                   2.0      2.0        9.5     11.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          381    2,730      4,567    4,327
IBRO                                         57      369       443       350                    G      A
IDA                                          29       81       386       424                 F 345   350
Total debt service                             46      228        553      508                5               424
ISRD                                          6       34        96        89                                  c
IDA                                           0        1          4        5                                  60
Composition of net resource flow                                                          EI
Official grants                              16      126        122      126           140        /
Official creditors                           87      230         41       -3
Private creditors                            12       36         15       15
Foreign direct investment                     7       28         50       60                              Li
Portfolio equity                                                0        0                              1683
World Bank program
Commitments                                  38        7         97       91      A - IBRO                    E - Bilatral
Disbursements                                is       45         85       52     9B IDA    D -Other muttiateral  F- PrWtoe
Principal repayments                          2       13        60       61       C IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                    13       32        25        -9   1                                          1
Interest payments                             4       23        41        33
Net transfers                                 9       10        -16      -42
Development Economics                                                                                               8&28/97



IBRD 29487
j      E L IZ  E                                                                                                                                                                                   HONDURAS
I 4SLAS DE                                                                        LOCATION OF ETHNIC GROUPS
LA BAHIA
-16       j 
-gAfeMALA  /   TE3>   \  ArSlDa    p  f  j   7  X   \  <   \A  o0  25  50  75     0 Kilof-s 
A                                                                             0            25                          75 7-MiIe,
GUATEMALA                                                        AT NU 
.                                                    \                                                                                                   _        , x ,6  t &ws, /  Ej  A\  -l
ETHINICITY:
LENCAS (pop. 217,000)
kE    i  > > 0r V   9                                                   MISKITOS / ZAMBOS (pO.p 40,000)
CHORTIS (pop. 1 7,0002
6                      ,          ALPA                        ARAISO                               "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~GARIFUNAS (pop. 175,0001
Thim mp pne    ..o6od by thC
TOLUPANES (pop. 120,500)                                        Aip D6.sigUnitTh. Woldflo-k.
Th. b-6d-noe, nolr, d-,oi-,oo-
EL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AVX SALVADORAG: 
A       PECH / PAYAS (pop 2,700)                                        ned COSTh mI .. i-oA.-o
TAWAHKAS / SUMOS (pop. 916)                                      _ Ahn (- M   o   ,Y,o-
LE'  ,                                                                  ~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ENGLISH - SPEAKING BLACK (pop. 22,600)     ,tbodri.
HOL                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NoO For GorAr- ToIoo- P.h, Ib-.hk-  90:  86.        82'         78'
0{                                                    Soo,on Tsoho,rol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sno-or,nflro--o-l ooCoop--o oSETCOI    MEXICO'0    'BELIZE  JotC
--     NATIONAL CAPITAL                      -1R          EL'
RIVERS                                         SALVADOR   NICARAGUA.
MUNICIPA[ITIES
10'                ~~~~~COSTA RICAt'
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
PANAMA.
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
188                                                                         86-                                                                         84s                   9            86'         B2'         COLOMBIA
JUNE 1998



Repuiblica de Honduras
M-apa dePobreza
M a pa  d e  P o b reza                                 ~~~~~~~INDICADORES UTILIZADOS
PARA MEDIR LA POBREZA
-  !  _ Dotaci6n de Agua .......... la 40%
.Desnutricin .................. Id  20%
Saneamiento 13asico ..........I.. lsb 20%
Anlaei.l ,      ...... Ian 20%
Aceptable Menor de 25.00
Regular     25.01 - 35.00
Deficiente   35.01 - 45.00
f  .  z  Malo   45.01 - -55.00
Muy Malo  55.01 -100.00
<   ,             ~~~~PRESIDENCIA DE LA REPUBLICA
- ~~~~~Fondo Hondurerio de Inversion Social
FHIS - 3
N
MINISTRO
ING. MANUEL ZELAYA ROSALES
DISENO                                      E
Ing. Marcial Maier
S



