                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 25481

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (IDA-31180 IDA-31181)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 49.8 MILLION (US$ 67.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

                                          FOR A

                      FOURTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
                                         (SIF IV)




                                        12/17/2003




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective at Credit closing)

                           Currency Unit = Honduran Lempiras
                               1.00 HNL = US$ 0.0599880
                               US$ 1.00 = HNL 16.67

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1    - December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
FHIS        Fondo Hondureño de Inversión Social (Honduras Social Investment Fund)
FMS         Financial Management Specialist
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GIS         Geographic Information System
GOH         Government of Honduras
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
INFOP       Instituto Nacional de Formación (National Institute for Professional Training)
KfW         Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (German Credit Institute for Reconstruction)
LACI        Loan Administration Change Initiative
MIS         Management Information System
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
OECD        Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PMR         Project Management Report
PSR         Project Status Report
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
Sida        Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
SIF         Social Investment Fund

                          Vice President:   David de Ferranti
             Country Manager/Director:      Jane Armitage
              Sector Manager/Director:      Ana-María Arriagada
       Task Manager/Task Team Leader:       Andrea Vermehren/David Seth Warren

                                         HONDURAS
                   FOURTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
                                            (SIF IV)
                                    (Credit 31180/1-HO)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            21
6. Sustainability                                                                23
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 25
8. Lessons Learned                                                               26
9. Partner Comments                                                              28
10. Additional Information                                                       n/a
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             36
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             39
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             42
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             43
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             46
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                47
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            48

Project ID: P048651                                                  Project Name: Fourth Social Investment Fund
Team Leader: Andrea Vermehren                                        TL Unit: LCSHS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 18, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: Fourth Social Investment Fund                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-31180; IDA-31181
   Country/Department: HONDURAS                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other Social Services (6%); General Education (27%); Health (2%);
                            Subnational Govt 54%; General Water, sanitation, and flood
                            protection sector (11%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Civic engagement,
                            participation and community driven development (P); Social risk
                            reduction (P); Indigenous peoples (S); Municipal governance and
                            institution building (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/06/1998                                     Effective: 11/23/1998                11/30/1998
     Appraisal: 06/09/1998                                         MTR: 04/30/2000
      Approval: 07/14/1998                                      Closing: 02/28/2002                 01/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS/FHIS
                      Other Partners:      IDB, OPEC, KfW, Sida.

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              S. Javed Burki
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:                 Ana-María Arriagada                            Xavier Coll (Acting)
Team Leader at ICR:             Andrea Vermehren                               David Warren
ICR Primary Author:             Catherine Gibbons; Willem
                                Struben; David Warren; Rene
                                Rodriguez; Kathryn Swartz


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
    Honduras ranks among the least developed countries in the Western Hemisphere. In 1990, the
    Government of Honduras (GOH) formed the Honduras Social Investment Fund, SIF (Fondo
    Hondureño de Inversión Social, FHIS) to help alleviate the impact of structural adjustment policies by
    financing small-scale investments in poor communities. By the late 1990s, although FHIS continued to
    emphasize social infrastructure, the institution was beginning to evolve and support decentralization
    and systemic changes in key sectors through demonstration, innovation, and capacity building at the
    central, local, and community levels.

    To continue IDA's support for the successful FHIS program, the Fourth Honduras Social Investment
    Fund Project (SIF IV) was prepared and approved in July 1998. The main objective was to increase
    access among the poor to small-scale social and economic infrastructure, in accordance with local
    development priorities, and based on a proven approach from previous phases. The project design
    reflected FHIS's nascent attention to local-level sustainability with the introduction of several pilot
    initiatives to: (a) develop social assistance programs for disadvantaged groups, including the Nuestras
    Raíces (Our Roots) Program targeting indigenous and ethnic minority communities; (b) improve
    investments in the community / rural water sector; and (c) contribute to the prospects for sustainability
    of such investments. Based on previous evaluations and operational experience, the project was also
    designed to support capacity building to strengthen FHIS's institutional arrangements, in particular the
    role of local-level actors. This was the fourth IDA Credit, and like previous credits, was developed and
    overseen in collaboration with other cofinancing agencies including the Inter-American Development
    Bank, IDB; the German Credit Institute for Reconstruction, KfW; the Swedish International
    Development Cooperation Agency, Sida; and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
    OPEC.

    Impact of Hurricane Mitch
    At the end of October 1998, a month before the project was declared effective, Honduras was hit by
    Hurricane Mitch, considered the worst natural disaster to have affected Honduras in modern times.
    Hurricane Mitch affected more than three-quarters of the country (266 out of 298 municipalities) and
    damaged or destroyed about 80 percent of the road network, water systems in all major urban areas,
    and more than 2,300 rural water systems. Losses to public and private infrastructure were estimated at
    over US$3.5 billion (over 70 percent of the 1997 GDP). Three out of four Hondurans were affected
    and the impact of this natural disaster was particularly heavy on low-income/disadvantaged
    communities.

    Immediately after the disaster, FHIS was given the mandate by the GOH, in agreement with IDA and
    other partners, to respond to requests from both local and central government to help rebuild the
    country's critical local infrastructure. For the first three months after the disaster, FHIS provided the
    only significant resources for the reconstruction effort. FHIS was able to adopt this role since it built
    on existing strengths. While the swift operational pace did produce some drawbacks related to the
    advances made in local-level municipal planning and project monitoring--issues that were eventually
    redressed when the emergency phase was completed--the rapid processing mode was the only
    alternative at the time. Most of the funds initially assigned to the pilot initiatives were reallocated to
    emergency subproject financing, although it should be noted that the Nuestras Raíces Program was
    maintained and was very successful, and the pilot municipal participatory planning initiatives that were
    carried out before effectiveness (and resumed after the emergency phase and in SIF V) are
    transforming FHIS's modus operandi. The hurricane had a devastating impact on the country and its



                                                       - 2 -

    people and significantly affected this project's implementation plan, yet as a result of its
    responsiveness, FHIS is recognized for playing a central role in reinstating needed services, promoting
    stability, and shaping the future of Honduras.

    Assessment of Original Objective
    At appraisal, the project's objectives were clear, realistic, and important priorities for Honduras, as
    identified by the GOH and in IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The GOH strategy for
    poverty reduction and social sector development focused on expanding and improving the quality of
    primary services in health, nutrition, education, water and sanitation, and on targeting the poor. During
    project preparation, the GOH confirmed that the project was consistent with its national plans for
    poverty alleviation, social sector, and local/municipal development. The CAS objectives included
    improving living conditions and development opportunities among the poor by: (a) expanding and more
    efficiently distributing priority public sector services, particularly in health, education, water and
    sanitation, and economic infrastructure, thereby contributing to improved access to basic social
    services and productive opportunities; and (b) addressing priority social needs through programs for
    disadvantaged and underserved groups, including street children, women, the elderly and handicapped,
    and ethnic minorities.

    The project's approach to financing basic services for poor communities, which drew from lessons
    learned under previous phases of the FHIS program and from social funds worldwide, emphasized the
    participation of local organizations, including communities and especially local governments. FHIS had
    the experience and a proven role in subproject financing. Local governments were seen to be integral in
    ensuring sustainable community participation, efficiency in resource allocation based on genuine local
    priorities, and prospects for sustained operation and maintenance of subprojects. This
    approach--consistent with Government strategy--recognized that a social fund represented an
    opportunity to balance central and local priorities, and that line ministries should focus on policy rather
    than infrastructure. The project considered the local level as a key to enhancing sustainability not only
    of the subprojects, but also of the participatory processes fostered under the social fund approach.

    The design emphasized a pilot learning-by-doing strategy and also included investments in capacity
    building. Government expressed agreement with this approach, but it should be noted that in many
    respects, this project helped to drive Government strategy toward a local development approach. The
    project also aimed to: (a) improve the collaboration frameworks at various levels of government and
    with other stakeholders in the areas of social assistance and rural water and sanitation; and (b) continue
    to strengthen the social assistance programs, particularly Nuestras Raíces, an innovative program for
    indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities. Again, the project approach was realistic and sensible,
    and the levels of complexity and risk--given FHIS experience--were reasonable.

3.2 Revised Objective:
    While the original objective was not revised, FHIS's mission after Hurricane Mitch changed, when it
    performed as the country's main agency supporting the clean-up, rehabilitation, and reconstruction of
    basic infrastructure in rural areas. FHIS's role in the emergency/reconstruction was consistent with the
    original objective and there was no formal restructuring. This approach was approved at the Director
    level and reported to the Executive Directors as part of the updates on the Bank's response to
    Hurricane Mitch. The Supplemental Credit, approved by IDA in December 1999, provided additional
    financing for reconstruction needs and it supported the attainment of the SIF IV objective (see Section
    3.4 for additional information on the Supplemental Credit).




                                                       - 3 -

    This ICR assesses the project in consideration of the major emergency and reconstruction support
    provided by FHIS, with the SIF IV and the Supplemental Credit, under circumstances where the
    demands for humanitarian action were overwhelming. The end-of-project assessment is challenging
    since the original objective still applied in the new conditions and some of the project's most significant
    accomplishments related to disaster response were not foreseen in the Project Appraisal Document
    (PAD). However, the fact that the SIF IV was very well defined and appraised made the rapid
    transformation to this new role not only feasible, but also highly responsive and effective.

3.3 Original Components:
    The project had four components financed with a US$45 million IDA Credit, GOH counterpart, and
    cofinancing for a total project cost of US$136.5 million.

    Component 1. Subproject Financing. (US$112.4 million; IDA US$37.5). This component consisted
    of two subcomponents: (a) Subprojects (US$96.9 million); and (b) Special Programs (US$15.5
    million). The Subprojects subcomponent would enable FHIS to continue to support a wide range of
    small-scale subprojects for the expansion/improvement of basic social and economic infrastructure, and
    to provide training in operations and maintenance. Subprojects would be identified and sponsored by
    poor communities, in coordination with local governments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs),
    and sectoral agencies. The Special Programs subcomponent would provide financing for two FHIS
    subprograms: Social Assistance and Nuestras Raíces. The Social Assistance Program would address
    priority social needs for disadvantaged and underserved groups (women, street children, the elderly,
    disabled) as identified by these beneficiaries or their representatives.

    The Nuestras Raíces Program would support FHIS's efforts to attend to the social and economic needs
    of poor indigenous and ethnic minority communities. This program merits special attention since it was
    one of the first programs in Latin America to provide significant support for ethnic minority
    populations. FHIS established this program in 1995 and allocated funds to finance micro-projects
    identified, selected, and executed by indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities. The program was
    designed to work directly with the recognized Ethnic Federations and cultivate a culture of savings and
    investment by creating or strengthening rural savings and credit mechanisms (Cajas Rurales/
    community banks), while at the same time increasing communities' technical and financial management
    capacities.

    Component 2. Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening. (US$1.3 million; IDA US$1.1
    million). Considering the important and increasing role that communities and local governments were
    playing in planning, implementing, and sustaining FHIS-financed investments, this component would
    develop, test, and draw lessons about mechanisms for encouraging and enabling communities and local
    governments to work together more effectively, and in (better) coordination with stakeholders at the
    local, regional, and national levels. The component would cover three interrelated aspects: (a)
    participatory local planning; (b) preventive maintenance; and (c) transference of some functions and
    responsibilities for subproject processing from FHIS to municipalities and communities.

    Component 3. Pilot Program to Strengthen Community and Rural Water Systems. (US$3.5
    million; IDA US$3.4 million). This component would provide technical assistance and supplemental
    subproject financing to: (a) develop and test innovative methodologies and creative partnerships, aimed
    at improving attention to rural communities' needs for water systems, and (b) improve sectoral
    coordination and support improved provision of technical assistance, supervision, and follow-up of
    operation and maintenance of rural water systems, and potentially lay the groundwork for improved
    attention to the water sector in the future.



                                                       - 4 -

    Component 4. Project Management. (US$19.3 million; IDA US$3.0 million). This component would
    finance: FHIS's operating costs; institutional strengthening (training, technical assistance; study tours,
    and workshops to improve FHIS operations); equipment and vehicles; external auditing; and
    monitoring and evaluation.

    Assessment
    The component design was clearly linked to the objectives described above and reflected lessons
    learned from global SIF experience and the three previous IDA credits to FHIS. The design also
    reflected the understanding that compared to government agencies, SIFs are able to adapt rapidly to
    more progressive forms of poverty alleviation and modernization of the State. Given the country's
    needs and FHIS and IDA experience with SIFs, the project provided the right mix of substantial
    investments in social sector priorities set by communities and vulnerable groups, with the introduction
    of pilot investments and institutional development (through a learning-by-doing approach) in two areas
    of critical importance to ensuring long-term sustainability. The project recognized the need to invest in
    strengthening municipalities so that they would be more effective at working with communities to
    define local priorities and contribute their financial resources to the subprojects.

    To enhance subproject sustainability, the project included a participatory process that sought to involve
    communities and local governments in all phases of the project cycle, from needs assessment and
    project identification to implementation and project operation and maintenance. It should be noted
    however, that it was recognized that sustainability depends on many factors, not just on local actors
    (see Section 6.1 for additional discussion on sustainability). The project design placed emphasis on the
    following operational characteristics--operational efficiency; transparency and accountability; clear
    and simple procurement and disbursement procedures; competitive salaries and freedom from normal
    government personnel restrictions--in order to permit the recruitment and hiring of highly qualified
    staff; proper targeting mechanisms; integration of the environmental viewpoint into operations; and
    improved attention to monitoring and evaluation activities, including beneficiary assessments.

3.4 Revised Components:
    In response to Hurricane Mitch, FHIS and the Government as a whole focused all their efforts on
    responding to communities' urgent needs for assistance in restoring basic infrastructure and getting the
    country back on its feet. While resources under SIF IV initially appeared adequate to cover estimated
    damages to community infrastructure, the needs proved to be considerably greater than early estimates.
    Heavy rains in late 1999 aggravated this situation by affecting heavily eroded watersheds and causing
    further damage to rural community infrastructure. In December 1999, with 95 percent of the original
    credit disbursed, IDA approved a Supplemental Credit of US$22.5 million to help FHIS respond to
    numerous outstanding subproject requests that had originated throughout 1999 from communities,
    municipalities, NGOs, and other local agents, seeking assistance in rebuilding and replacing vital
    infrastructure.




                                                      - 5 -

    IDA made a strategic decision to pursue a Supplemental Credit when at the time, preparation for the
    follow-on SIF V, which included deepening of FHIS's efforts to support local institutional
    strengthening and resumption of the SIF IV pilots, was underway. The Supplemental Credit was
    considered the best instrument to provide additional financing quickly without imposing conditionality,
    which was not appropriate for emergency reconstruction subprojects, and to continue the support for
    institutional development of FHIS and long-term development assistance under the forthcoming SIF V.
    Also, since FHIS was still fully engaged in responding to communities' emergency needs, IDA did not
    want to ask the Government to focus precipitately on remaining preparatory activities (the SIF V
    project was ultimately approved in December 2000, Cr. 3443-HO).

    FHIS managed to continue its support for the Nuestras Raíces Program and, to some degree, for social
    assistance programs for vulnerable groups. Prior to effectiveness, FHIS also launched a participatory
    local investment planning program (as part of the Pilot Local Institutional Strengthening Component),
    which has since become the basis for FHIS's general approach, and also informed the Government's
    2002 Local Development Strategy (not to mention the approach of many other social funds around the
    world). However, by Government request and in agreement with IDA, FHIS froze the remainder of its
    Pilot Programs for Local Institutional Strengthening and Community and Rural Water Systems and
    reallocated funds to hurricane recovery efforts. This reallocation was formalized in the Supplemental
    Credit, and these two original components were eliminated. With the Supplemental, SIF IV received a
    total of US$67.5 million from IDA as allocated below. The pilot programs were resumed later and are
    currently being financed under the SIF V credit.

          Table 1 ­ IDA Financing Original and Revised with Supplemental Credit (US$ million)
    Component                                                                Original     Revised with     Difference
                                                                                         Supplemental
   Subprojects (Includes Nuestras Raíces and Social Assistance)                 37.5         64.4             +26.9
   Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening                          1.1            0.1            - 1.0
   Pilot Program to Strengthen Community and Rural Water Systems                3.4            0.0            - 3.4
   Project Management                                                           3.0            3.0              0.0
    Total                                                                      45.0          67.5             +22.5



3.5 Quality at Entry:
    In light of the circumstances present at the time of preparation (prior to Hurricane Mitch), the project's
    quality at entry is considered highly satisfactory. Project design benefited from the Bank's substantial
    experience with SIFs worldwide and from IDA and FHIS experience with three previous credits. The
   project included clear and limited objectives that were consistent with the GOH's policies for social
   development, poverty alleviation, and local/municipal development. The project was consistent with
   IDA's Honduras CAS, which sought to improve living conditions and development opportunities for
   the poor. Support to FHIS would expand access to public sector services in poor communities and
   address specific needs of disadvantaged and underserved groups, such as the indigenous and
   Afro-Honduran populations. The project also stressed the involvement of local communities and
   governments in identifying and prioritizing subprojects to increase sustainability; this emphasis
   included pilot efforts for: (a) local government strengthening to enhance participatory planning, allow
   for more significant participation of local stakeholders (particularly local governments) in
   implementation, and improve prospects for sustainability of infrastructure; and (b) a better approach to
   rural water investments. These components, which were suspended after Mitch, were based upon
   intensive discussions and agreements with all relevant stakeholders.




                                                      - 6 -

    As part of the Indigenous Peoples Participation Plan, resources were specifically allocated to the
    Nuestras Raíces Program. FHIS established an environmental unit in 1995 and the Operational
    Manuals used to screen subprojects for possible environmental implications were reviewed during
    preparation and considered to be in compliance with the OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment.

    Preparation also included one of the first significant attempts to measure the impact of social funds,
    and to establish a baseline for subsequent evaluations. While the results of this impact assessment were
    not finalized until after appraisal, they ultimately confirmed that the FHIS design was effective in
    meeting key project objectives. The assessment documented that FHIS was successful in terms of
    targeting, responsiveness to community priorities, contributions to overall changes in social
    infrastructure, and sustainability of investments. The added emphasis on participatory community
    planning during SIF IV was expected to further enhance FHIS's success in making sustainable
    community investments.

    A QAG assessment carried out in January 1999 ranked the project's Quality at Entry as Highly
    Satisfactory and noted that it was one of the best PADs they had reviewed, citing the strength of project
    concept, objectives, and approach; financial management aspects; readiness for implementation; risk
    assessment and sustainability, and Bank inputs and processes.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
    The project's overall performance is considered satisfactory. Considering the widespread devastation
   caused by Hurricane Mitch and FHIS's rapid transformation to its new role in helping the country
   rebuild, the achievements of this project are significant. While the original objective of the project did
   not change, the expectations as to what post-project Honduras would look like did. Given these new
   role and standards, FHIS met and even exceeded reasonable expectations for performance, particularly
   with respect to rapid response, coverage, and coordination with municipalities.

   FHIS's on-the-ground approach enabled it to assume the leading role in responding to communities'
   urgent needs for assistance in restoring basic infrastructure: water and sanitation systems, roads,
   schools, and health centers. The Supplemental Credit provided additional financing to meet
   reconstruction needs and it formalized the reallocation of funding for the two pilot components to
   subproject financing. FHIS's performance in the immediate aftermath of the hurricane was exceptional,
   but as expected in this situation, the change in approach and rapid operational pace did produce some
   drawbacks. The institution faced the challenge of implementing the subprojects initiated in response to
   Mitch and returning to its pre-emergency approach. FHIS was slow to return to normalcy following
   the emergency phase[1], and as a result, there were some shortfalls related to subproject quality control
   (including ensuring adequate community involvement, in all communities, in the "social control"of such
   projects) and weak monitoring and evaluation (see below and also Sections 4.2 and 9). Nevertheless,
   presently FHIS's (and the Government's) current strategy to focus on the critical role of municipalities
   working together with communities is a direct result of the positive experience of this project. The
   main objective and achievements are discussed below, taking into account the post-Mitch reality and
   the adjustments that occurred during implementation.

   Increase access among the poor to social and economic infrastructure. After Mitch, the
   Government's main concern in terms of expanding service coverage changed dramatically. The
   objective of "increasing access..." remained, but the baseline upon which such increases would build
   was now at a much lower level. The devastation caused by the hurricane and subsequent flooding



                                                       - 7 -

wiped out many of the previous gains that had been made in increasing access to basic infrastructure
and services, and meant that any new increases would only serve to help poor communities recuperate
some of the losses. By Government request and IDA agreement, the SIF IV Credit focused almost
exclusively on restoring previously existing levels of access to basic infrastructure and services.
Preparation activities had included an impact assessment of the previous phases, and--as part of that
study--the establishment of a baseline for indicators under the SIF IV Credit, however, Mitch rendered
the usefulness of that baseline more dubious (although it should be mentioned that an impact
assessment planned under SIF V includes some interesting ideas for utilizing that data); this also made
monitoring key performance indicators more difficult.

Immediate response to the natural disaster. FHIS was effective in responding quickly to the
devastation caused by Hurricane Mitch. Immediately after the declaration of national emergency, FHIS
coordinated with a wide range of public and private agencies to transport basic goods (food, water,
blankets, medical supplies) to communities that had become isolated as a result of hurricane damage.
Once the floodwaters receded, FHIS worked quickly to clear mud and debris from roads. In
coordination with line ministries (for education and health), sector agencies, and local governments (for
water and sanitation, roads, bridges, and waterways), subprojects were prioritized in each municipality.
The massive presence of FHIS was only possible since nine municipalities were converted in less than a
week into decentralized FHIS offices with experienced technical and professional staff, specialized in
civil engineering, construction, and supervision. FHIS increased from an average of 400 active
projects (in construction) to 2,600. Through this effort, Honduras was able to address the urgent needs
of more than 6,000 poor communities with significant investments in reconstruction of small social
infrastructure totaling about US$140 million (IDA, the GOH, and cofinancing). FHIS's immediate
focus on restoration of access to economic activity and basic social services (particularly opening roads
and cleaning up debris) is considered a factor in mitigating the expected sharp decline in growth and as
a result, limiting the extent of negative impacts of the emergency on poverty. Once these initial needs
had been addressed, FHIS refocused its effort on reconstruction, starting in February 1999 and
continuing until June 2000.[2]

Develop social assistance programs for disadvantaged groups. The social assistance program was
largely frozen, but the Nuestras Raíces Program continued and even though it was new for the country,
it was successful. This program addressed the needs of a particularly vulnerable population group and
resulted in new government policies dealing with politically and socially difficult and sensitive issues.
According to a recently completed evaluation of the Nuestras Raíces Program,[3] 73 percent of the
Nuestras Raíces beneficiaries are from the four lowest income deciles in the country, compared to 50
percent for the rural population as a whole. This confirms that the Nuestras Raíces Program was
highly effective in targeting low-income people (see section 4.2 for additional information on impact of
this program).

Contribute to sustainability of investments. The notion of "sustainability" changed for many of the
investments immediately after the hurricane; although FHIS still aimed to enhance the benefits of
investments for as long as possible, the durability that could be considered reasonable had to be
balanced against the need to act quickly in as many communities as possible. FHIS's goal became to
rehabilitate damaged infrastructure to pre-Mitch conditions (this was one of the principal agreements
among FHIS and its donors that allowed financing under the emergency mode). Given the emergency, it
was agreed that some of the innovative sustainability-oriented institutional development activities
planned under the pilot components (i.e., activities not already begun before Mitch) could wait for
calmer times. Nevertheless, there were significant institutional development impacts at the level of the



                                                  - 8 -

working relationship between FHIS and the municipalities which positively affected the prospects for
sustainability (see additional information on local institutional strengthening activities in Section 4.2
and on sustainability in Section 6.1).

Achievement of Social Objectives

Poverty Alleviation. The poverty alleviation objective was substantially achieved. Targeting of the
poorest communities and disadvantaged groups (urban and rural, including indigenous communities)
was to be fostered through: (a) ex-ante resource allocation criteria based on an agreed formula,
incorporating population and poverty indicators, using five categories, and assigning greater amounts
of funding per capita to the poorest municipalities; (b) self-targeting by type of subproject ­ eligible
sectors included water, sanitation, education, health, and economic infrastructure (all designed,
constructed, and localized in a way so the less poor would not consider them acceptable); (c) promotion
and assistance to strengthen participatory local planning and to provide local agents with the best
available information on apparent local needs for small-scale social and economic infrastructure needs;
and (d) establishment of Social Assistance and Community and Rural Water Systems Steering
Committees to provide guidance to help ensure that the neediest groups and communities would be
reached.

Prior to Mitch, FHIS allocated funds to each municipality based upon the above-mentioned formula.                     [4]


Immediately following Mitch, with authorization of the financing agencies, FHIS adjusted its allocation
formula to incorporate the needs stemming from the hurricane in communities in greatest need;
however, the programming of activities was complicated by the general lack of quantification of actual
damage for each municipality. Other government agencies were assigned the responsibility to address
infrastructure needs of the less poor populations. Each affected municipality was authorized to spend
up to 40 percent of its allocated amount, but then, as the full scale of the destruction became apparent,
they were authorized to spend up to 100 percent of the allocation. The pre-Mitch fund allocations were,
for the most part, respected during the emergency period, however with prior approval from the
funders, allocations for unaffected municipalities were transferred to affected municipalities that
needed more than their original allocation to rebuild.

Overall, the majority of FHIS investments during the project period helped to address damaged
infrastructure in the poorest communities. Sixty percent of the emergency funds were spent in the
poorest 221 municipalities (which contain 38 percent of the total population) and 40 percent was spent
in the remaining 45 municipalities (which contain 62 percent of the total population).


                                              Total Subprojects Amount by Municipal Poverty Category
                                                                   (all sources)



                                      Very Poor,
                                    Poor, Deficient
                                                                                                    Emergency
                     Category
                                                                                                    Reconstruction
                                          Regular,

                             Poverty   Acceptable



                                                   0   10  20    30  40   50    60 70   80   90

                                                                   US$million




                                                                    - 9 -

Even in the less poor municipalities, the poorest communities benefited. For example, there are nearly
120,000 residents in the 26 poor communities (colonias populares) surrounding Tegucigalpa, San
Pedro Sula, and La Lima, and in these areas, FHIS built dikes, opened access, cleared debris, and
constructed temporary shelters with water and sanitation services. These investments resulted in an
increase in expenditures in the less poor municipalities during the emergency and reconstruction as
compared to pre-Mitch allocations (see Table 2 and graph).



              Table 2 - Investment by Municipal Poverty Category (all funding sources)
                                           Pre-Mitch         Emergency          Reconstruction
           Municipal Poverty Category   Allocation (%)     Subprojects (%)      Subprojects (%)
         Very Poor                            28                  19                 23

         Poor                                 20                  16                 14
         Deficient                            28                  25                 25
         Total                                76                  60                 62
         Regular                              14                  13                 10
         Acceptable                           10                  27                 28
         Total                                24                  40                 38




                                          Subproject Resource Allocation


                         30
                         25
                         20                                                     Pre-Mitch Allocation

                         15                                                     Emergency
                  Percent10                                                     Reconstruction
                          5
                          0
                            Very Poor  Poor    Deficient   Regular  Acceptable

                                           Poverty Category



An analysis by FHIS of its subproject investments at the community level during the project period
considering all financing sources shows that 76 percent of the resources benefited extremely poor
communities; 18 percent benefited high poverty communities; and 6 percent benefited poor
communities. The Very Poor municipalities had the highest per capita investment in both the
               [5]


emergency and reconstruction phases, followed by those in the Deficient category (see Table 3).
Further evaluation of the poverty levels of the households and communities within each of these
districts is planned under a forthcoming study, as part of the SIF V program. It is noteworthy that the
previous evaluation (1999) found that at the household level, the incidence of benefits appears even
more progressive than at the district level.




                                                     - 10 -

     Table 3 - Subproject Investments Per Capita by Municipal Poverty Category (all sources)


                Emergency Phase                      Reconstruction Phase                      Total
                                         Per                               Per                                Per
             # Sub-  (US$       % of    Capita # Sub-  (US$      % of    Capita  # Sub-   (US$      % of    Capita
 Category projects million) Investment (US$) projects million) Investment (US$) projects million) Investment (US$)
Very Poor     598     11.6       19      14    17.8    18.0       23       22    1,491    29.6       21       36
Poor          457     9.5        16       6     552    10.8       14        7    1,009    20.3       15       12


Deficient     761     14.3       25      13     831    19.3       25       18    1,592    33.6       25       31
Subtotal      1,816   35.4       60      33    1,401   48.1       62       46    4,092    83.5       61       79
Regular       422     7.3        13       8     409     8.7       10       10     831     16.0       12       18
Acceptable    374     15.4       27      12     840    22.8       28       18    1,214    38.2       27       30
Subtotal      796     22.7       40      20    1,249   31.5       38       28    2,045    54.2       39       48
TOTAL         1,592   58.1      100            2,498   79.6       100            6,137   137.7       100
*Totals and percentages subject to rounding.

Gender Concerns. The gender equity objective was substantially achieved and the actions were
consistent with priorities established in the CAS. Although the project objective did not specifically
address gender, it was agreed that FHIS would continue to pay attention to the specific needs of women
and ensure that women were an integral part of the community decision-making process. FHIS required
that at least one woman represented each community in the open municipal meetings for the
prioritization of subprojects. For the community meetings, the group was not considered representative
unless there were numerous women present and participating. The evaluation of this process (during
preparation and prior to Mitch) showed that this norm was complied with. The community and
municipal planning process was put on hold during the emergency phase, but it did resume during the
last year of the project and is continuing under the SIF V. The integration of women in these meetings
has encouraged their participation in other community activities. Also, the Nuestras Raíces Program
was particularly successful in achieving a gender balance, with women making up 45 percent of the
project beneficiaries.

Environmental Objectives. The environmental objectives were substantially achieved. During the
emergency, in agreement with IDA, application of the environmental assessment operating guidelines
was suspended. In the immediate aftermath of the hurricane, it was discovered that six schools and one
health center had been reconstructed on sites where flooding had occurred. FHIS was careful not to let
this happen again. The project helped FHIS to complete and put in practice its first environmental
manual, which established environmental norms and criteria based on the type of project, to be applied
in the different stages of subproject cycle. As a result of the lessons learned during the emergency
reconstruction interventions, FHIS developed a series of criteria for improving the design and
evaluation of projects in vulnerable zones. FHIS carried out assessments on ways to improve the
environmental sustainability of its emergency and normal subprojects. FHIS also used a portion of the
IDA funds to develop a series of pilot projects for erosion control and prevention. Finally, the FHIS
environmental unit included four projects for direct environmental support in the FHIS menu, including
protection of upland slopes containing potable water lines and forestation of populated areas on steep
slopes.




                                                  - 11 -

    Private Sector Development Objectives. The private sector development objectives were substantially
    achieved. The country's contracting industry, consulting firms, individual contractors and construction
    companies were strengthened by intensive and extensive contracts with FHIS and several other line
    ministries. In parallel, FHIS opened the doors to smaller-scale local builders, a segment of the private
    sector that until this time did not have the opportunity to be contracted by the government.

    [1]There is a continuum usually found in emergencies: the first emergency phase (preserve life, provide food,
    water, shelter); reconstruction (restore previous levels of services); and return to normal operations (improve
    prevention and protection instruments). FHIS followed all three phases and is currently in the process of
    institutional re-engineering and resuming the local institutional strengthening programs.
    [2]SUM Consult GmbH, Wiesbaden, "Programa FHIS/KfW IV Evaluación técnico-financiera final: Informe de
    la misión de apoyo." Cooperación Financiera entre Honduras y Alemania, September, 2002
    [3]ESA Consultores, Evaluación del Programa "Nuestras Raíces" ­ Etapa IV, January, 2003
    [4]
       Note that the resource allocation is based on municipal poverty categories and targeting focuses on
    addressing specific communities and/or households.
    [5]
       FHIS data (Ing. Cubas and Lic. Carlos Rodríguez), August 2003.

4.2 Outputs by components:
    Component 1. Subproject Financing: Satisfactory. FHIS very effectively approved and implemented
   a large number of priority subprojects to address the damage caused by Mitch. Within the first 100
   days, FHIS approved 2,100 subprojects with a total value of US$40 million. The expedited operational
   procedures approved by the donors for the emergency, and FHIS's temporary decentralization to nine
   regional field offices, were successful in speeding up the project cycle. One year later (end of 1999),
   3,400 subprojects had been approved and nearly all of the SIF IV resources, which had been expected
   to last three years, had been committed and about 95 percent had been disbursed, representing an
   implementation rate four times faster than the pre-Mitch average. However, the post-Mitch
   environment made it difficult for FHIS to perform as well as could have been hoped, and as described
   in this ICR and in the Partner's comments in Section 9, there was some under performance related
   subproject management, monitoring, and quality control, and the full training and involvement of
   communities.

   Since most of the subprojects were relatively labor intensive (labor accounts for 25 to 30 percent of
   most subprojects and as much as 70 percent of clean-up activities), FHIS's work also created
   significant temporary employment in those areas where productive activities were most affected. FHIS
   created about 100,000 person-months of employment during the first three months (similar to workfare
   programs in other countries).[1]

   During the project period, FHIS exceeded physical objectives and financed a total of 6,137 subprojects
   with an estimated cost of US$137.7 million representing IDA, the GOH, and cofinancing contributions,
   considerably more than the US$96.9 million projected for this component at appraisal (see tables 4 and
   5). Of this total, about two-thirds of the subprojects financed hurricane emergency and reconstruction
   efforts and the remainder were the result of the participatory municipal planning process. The average
   cost per subproject was just over $20,000, with emergency subprojects costing slightly more than
   non-emergency subprojects. IDA funding accounted for 46 percent of the total SIF IV subproject
   investments.




                                                        - 12 -

                                     Table 4 - Number of Subprojects
 Category                                Number of        Percent of     Number of          Total       Percent of
                                        Subprojects      Subprojects    Subprojects      Subprojects   Subprojects ­
                                        (IDA, GOH)                                   [2]
                                                                       Other Sources    during SIF IV  All Sources
Hurricane Emergency and Recovery           2,698              81           1,440            4,138           67
Municipal Priorities                        322               10           1,199            1,521           25
Ministerial Priorities                      83                 2             24             107             2
Social Assistance                           238                7            133             371             6
Total Projects                             3,341             100           2,796            6,137          100
As Percent of Total                         55                               45             100


                              Table 5 - Amount of Investment in Subprojects
                          Value of IDA        Value of          Value of         Value Of         Total All Sources
                            Credit +        Government       Other Sources      Government         (in US$ million)
                          Supplemental      Counterpart     (in US$million)   Counterpart to
                        (in US$million)       to IDA                           Other Sources
                                          (in US$million)                     (in US$ million)
Hurricane                     51.8              3.5               38.1               1.8                95.2
Emergency and
Recovery
Municipal Priorities          7.3               0.5               22.3               1.3                31.4
Ministerial Priorities        1.3               0.1               1.1               0.06                 2.5
Social Assistance             3.5               0.3               4.7               0.15                 8.6
Total                         63.9              4.4               66.1               3.3                137.7
As Percent of Total           46                 3[3]              48                 3                 100


Allocation by Sector. Eligible sectors included: water, sanitation, education, health, and economic
infrastructure (roads and bridges). There were no fixed percentage allocations by sector since these
may have constrained FHIS's demand driven approach. The subproject menu allowed consideration of
non-menu items where there was a clearly demonstrated public interest. The subproject menu was
respected, even during the emergency phase and in the Nuestras Raíces Program, FHIS experimented
with a "negative list menu." During the emergency phase, the largest investment was in the Municipal
category, which included: road clearing and repairs, drainage, bridges and access roads, and other
municipal infrastructure. Overall, including the reconstruction phase for all funding sources, the largest
investment was made in the Education category (see Table 6 and graph).

                Table 6 - Sectoral Analysis of Subproject Investment (all sources)
                                                                         Percent of total
                               Number of       Total Cost of Subprojects   subproject
                               Subprojects           (US$ million)         investment
  Education                       2,750                  58.0                  42
  Municipal                       1,906                  48.3                  36
  Water and Sanitation             731                   13.0                   9
  Social Assistance                346                    8.0                   6
  Health                           343                    7.0                   5
  Environment                       61                    3.4                   2
  TOTAL                           6,137                 137.7                  100




                                               - 13 -

                                    Subproject Expenditures by Sector (all sources)


                         Environment

                              H ealth

                    Social Assistance                                                         Emergency

           Sector Water and Sanitation                                                        Reconstruction

                           M unicipal

                            Education


                                      0        10    20      30      40       50      60

                                                        US$millions



As a result of Mitch, the largest IDA-specific investment (54 percent) was made in the "Municipal"
category. Education and Water and Sanitation were also high priority sectors (see Table 7 and graph).

                  Table 7 - Sectoral Analysis of Subproject Investment (IDA with counterpart)
         Sector                     Number of          Total Cost of            Percent of Total    Average Cost per
                                   Subprojects          Subprojects         Subproject Investment      Subproject
                                                       (US$million)
  Municipal                           1,503                36.8                       54                  24,484
  Education                           973                  18.1                       27                  18,602
  Water and Sanitation                526                   7.1                       10                  13,498
  Social Assistance                   238 [5]               3.8                        6                  15,966
  Health                               78                   1.6                        2                  20,513
  Environment                          23                   0.8                        1                  34,783
  TOTAL                               3,341                68.3                       100                 20,439



                                      Subproject Expenditures by Sector - Original and
                                                  Supplemental IDA Credits


                                    Environment

                              Social Assistance

                                         Health

                               W ater Sanitation

                                      Education

                                      Municipal

                                                $-   $5   $10  $15     $20   $25   $30   $35    $40

                                                               (in millions US$)

                                                  Original          Supplemental



In mounting its rapid and massive response to Hurricane Mitch, FHIS was under pressure to restore
roads, bridges, schools, and health posts as quickly as possible. This meant that FHIS had to limit its
investments to repairs, rather than major reconstruction efforts, which in some cases resulted in a
duplication of effort. The quality of subprojects was generally satisfactory, although in some cases,
particularly during the first four months at the height of the reconstruction phase when the country
suffered a shortfall in the supply of experienced contractors, FHIS sometimes had to turn to less
experienced contractors[4] and there were delays in completing the works. The most technically and
socially complex projects were not always appraised by professionals with experience in those fields




                                                          - 14 -

and there was no standard menu, which caused problems in terms of the formulation, appraisal,
monitoring, and auditing of new emergency projects, such as clean-up and the provisional opening of
roads.

A KfW-funded evaluation of 29 SIF IV subprojects found that the water and sanitation and school
construction subprojects had a number of design problems, but the health subprojects were generally of
good quality (FHIS did fix any problems that were detected in this evaluation). This evaluation also
noted inadequate supervision in some cases when individuals failed to comply with contractual
obligations and uneven quality control. Likewise, the quick pace of the work did not always allow for
an analysis of supply and demand or the necessary investment of time in preparing communities to
support maintenance and social management of subprojects, however, training was provided for water
and latrine projects (in fact most communities had already received training when the work was first
built). In addition, once the emergency phase was over, training was restarted and 381 community
committees, with at least two women members, were formed and trained (see more on sustainability in
Section 6.1).

FHIS also influenced sectoral policy. To address quality concerns, FHIS collaborated with the
education and health ministries on improvements in the designs, construction techniques, and material
specifications for basic community facilities, which have since been converted into sectoral norms. As
part of these norms, during the evaluation process, the environmental conditions of each community
were reviewed and the design was systematically adjusted for each community. These improvements
helped to reduce prices, enhance building conditions, and promote appropriate maintenance.

Social Assistance Program. The original design included a substantial innovative social assistance
program, which was mostly suspended when FHIS turned its attention to hurricane repair. There were
some advances made during the emergency period including: preparation of the manual for the
Innovative Social Assistance Fund; implementation of four consultancies; creation of the
Government/Civil Society mechanism to evaluate proposals; prequalification of providers; and
implementation of several workshops with NGOs and other program stakeholders. This program was
reinitiated in SIF V and appears to be implementing well.

Nuestras Raíces Program. This subcomponent is considered Highly Satisfactory. FHIS was able to
continue its support for the Nuestras Raíces Program and worked systematically and rapidly on the
achievement of planned objectives and outputs. This program targeted indigenous and Afro-Honduran
populations, who together represent 12 percent of the country's population. When Hurricane Mitch hit,
the nine Ethnic Federations and 450 FHIS and ethnic liaison officers had been trained in the
organization and management of community banks. The original plan was to train 1,843 community
group coordinators, so that they could better assist their community groups in the selection and
implementation of priority projects. After Mitch, the federations encouraged FHIS to skip this step,
moving immediately to funding small hurricane recovery projects prioritized by the communities, and
to adopt more of a learning-by-doing approach. Within six months, 1,843 small-scale projects,
including the repair of damaged schools and health posts and the reopening of roads and footpaths, had
been implemented successfully, benefiting a total of 57,940 heads of households. A total of US$2.1
million was disbursed to these 1,843 community groups [Note: the Nuestras Raíces subprojects are
included in the Social Assistance line in Table 7. To facilitate their entry into the MIS, they were
packaged into groups of 10 or so micro-projects. Thus, they appear as only 187 subprojects in the
table].




                                                - 15 -

An evaluation of the Nuestras Raíces Program in 2002 showed that the program successfully targeted
extremely poor population groups, and worked well with the indigenous and Afro-Honduran
federations, thereby contributing to their social legitimacy and development. The evaluation also noted
that by financing micro-projects that were of high priority to the communities, the program
strengthened local decision-making, enhanced communities' capacity to mobilize other funds, and
effectively helped organize rural credit and savings mechanisms and other productive activities. The
evaluation also identified some issues that are being addressed in subsequent (and planned future)
phases of the program including: organizational capacity of the federations was uneven; project
sustainability could be improved by reorienting the program to focus on inputs other than labor; and
there was limited trickle-down of training from community representatives to the rest of the community.


Between 1995-1999, IDA provided financial support totaling US$6.5 million to the program in three
phases. A fourth phase began in June 2001 as part of SIF V, with a US$13 million in investment. This
phase financed 4,168 micro-projects, which directly benefited 125,000 heads of household. About 45
percent of the beneficiaries were women, and women held 60 percent of representative positions. The
program also strengthened 3,668 rural credit and savings groups. A total of 3,350 group coordinators,
450 ethnic liaisons, 310 liaisons with FHIS, and 50 heads of the ethnic federations were trained to run
the program. Based on the recommendations of the evaluators, the GOH is addressing these concerns
and in coordination with IDA, is working on a possible new phase of support for the program in 2004.
Over the long-run, the program also aims to support a fuller integration of indigenous and
Afro-Honduran communities into the mainstream processes of governance and service delivery, both at
the central and local levels.

Component 2. Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening. Not Applicable. This
component was largely reallocated to the emergency subprojects and therefore, as reported in the
Project Status Reports, the output is not applicable. However, it is clear that there were noteworthy
achievements in the early participatory planning activities (before Mitch), which contributed to the
speed at which FHIS was able to respond to the natural disaster, as well as to the development of
FHIS's approach in the future.

FHIS's ability to work with local partners was greatly enhanced by activities that had been launched
under the Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening, before the Hurricane. During the eight
months that preceded Hurricane Mitch, FHIS promoted a participatory local planning process in
virtually all of the country's 298 municipalities to identify and prioritize community investment needs,
within the context of budgets allocated to each municipality based upon population and poverty data. A
team of over 400 FHIS promoters spread out across the country to explain the FHIS menu and
approach to targeted communities. Each community completed a form, which provided background on
the communities and identified priority needs. Over 15,000 community profiles were completed. On
September 26, 1998, all of the municipalities held open public meetings (cabildos abiertos) at which
each municipal subgroup presented their priorities, which had been previously identified in open
community meetings with facilitators contracted by FHIS, and ranked these priorities for the municipal
plan using objective selection criteria. These municipal plans were to be the basis upon which the funds
allocated by FHIS to each municipality would be spent. The next step would have been to allocate the
budget to the prioritized subprojects and start contracting contractors to execute the works. Following
Mitch, these plans were put on hold until July 2000.

During the emergency phase, there was close collaboration between FHIS and the 266 affected
municipalities due to these participatory planning initiatives. The mayors, working systematically with


                                                 - 16 -

the community leaders they had worked with during the planning exercise, prioritized lists of
community rehabilitation needs and FHIS field staff traveled to the sites to verify those needs and help
design the subprojects. This working relationship was a direct result of the pilot local institutional
strengthening activities. The initial design and early implementation of this pilot program, although not
completed prior to Mitch, created an institutional awareness in FHIS that the center of attention should
be the municipalities and the communities, not just the physical works. This new awareness in FHIS,
and in the other government agencies, is one of the lasting achievements of this project.

During the final year of the project, FHIS resumed activities related to this component. FHIS returned
to the municipalities to ask if the plans they had presented in September 1998 were still valid, and 218
of the 298 municipalities said that they were; the others were offered an opportunity to update the
                                                [6]


plans. As a result, most of FHIS's commitments made between July 2000 and the completion of SIF IV
in June 2002 were for subprojects identified earlier through the municipal planning process, and
substantially adhered to the municipal resource allocations agreed at the outset. This effort was new in
the country, and led to a much better understanding by the local government authorities and
communities of their own responsibilities, in terms of improving the chances of a sustainable project
output. It is also worth mentioning that this process as it was hoped at appraisal, seems to have laid the
groundwork for more municipal-level participatory planning approaches in Honduras that are now
being pursued as part of the current Government's Local Development Strategy and to guide
investments under the SIF V.

Other achievements included: (a) the Participatory Microplanning Manual was improved; (b) the
prioritization process was revalidated in visits to nearly 40 municipalities; (c) the Monitoring and
Evaluation System was adapted to reflect the Social Investment Plans for each municipality, the
product of the microplanning exercises; (d) the Decentralized Operation Manual was improved; and (e)
municipalities were evaluated in order to categorize them based on previous agreements with 32
selected municipalities. Three consultancies were carried out to: (a) learn about the capacity of the
municipalities for a framework of sustainable cofinancing for maintenance; (b) determine the different
ways the framework would be applied; and (c) develop the Municipal Maintenance Manual. The
findings informed the design of this component in SIF V.

Component 3. Pilot Program to Strengthen Community and Rural Water Systems. Not
Applicable. This component was reallocated to subproject financing.

Component 4. Project Management. Satisfactory. FHIS as an institution showed a remarkable
ability to adapt to the new circumstances in the country following Hurricane Mitch and subsequent
flooding in 1999 and 2000. No government agency had a plan for responding to this kind of natural
disaster. Consequently, the President of Honduras turned to FHIS to develop and implement a strategy.

Given the operational flexibility of its legal framework and its lean operating structure, FHIS had the
capacity to respond immediately to requests from local and central levels for emergency and
reconstruction assistance. FHIS was able to become a rapid response agency due to its capacity to
work in distant areas and the establishment of ad hoc procedures for purchasing and contracting. Its
staff worked extremely long hours over a long period of time. IDA supported this process and was able
to streamline disbursements with the more flexible disbursement procedures of the Loan Administration
Change Initiative (LACI). FHIS also successfully maintained the projected 11 percent operating
expenses as a percentage of total investment cost (this is quite acceptable in comparison with most
SIFs). The main changes are detailed below:



                                                   - 17 -

§   In less than three days, FHIS established nine temporary regional offices in municipal facilities,
each managed by a high-level FHIS staff member (with delegated responsibilities and resources) with a
team of engineers supplied with computers and vehicles. Each office had the authority to approve
projects of up to US$100,000. As the sole signatory on the account, each regional director signed a
personal guarantee. The regional offices worked closely with community members and municipal
representatives to assess immediate needs to clean up mud and debris, and repair or replace water and
sanitation systems, access roads, bridges, health centers, and schools.
§   In agreement with all financing agencies, FHIS simplified its project cycle to require only eight
steps instead of 50, developed a new 12-page operating manual, and it increased its use of standardized
subprojects and simplified procurement methods. It also established safeguards and contracted with an
external auditor to oversee the financial operations at each of its regional offices to ensure
accountability and transparency.
§   To facilitate the reconstruction process, the Government declared a National Emergency and
enacted Article 27 of the State Contracting Law, which said that, in case of a national emergency, the
competitive bidding requirement could be waived. FHIS followed suit by declaring a `State of Social
Emergency,' and also waived the competitive bidding requirement for awarding contracts, following the
no-objection of the Bank and the other two major donors, IDB and KfW. As a result, almost all of the
hurricane and emergency subprojects were procured using direct contracting. This was confirmed by a
KfW evaluation, which found that 99 percent of the subprojects it financed used direct contracting.

Undoubtedly, FHIS was effective in addressing priority infrastructure needs during the emergency
phase, even considering the difficult circumstances and the rapid transformation of its operating
procedures. These changes and FHIS's more sluggish performance after the emergency phase resulted
in some shortcomings related to subproject supervision and quality, and in process issues including
subproject management, documentation, and monitoring as described below:

Subproject Management. The fast pace of subproject approval and contracting eventually affected
subproject management and supervision, an unavoidable consequence of executing funds four times
faster than normal. This was an understandable situation given the dire needs in Honduran
communities. While the nine regional offices were swift in approving and implementing subprojects
during the Mitch emergency and recovery phase, FHIS's central office was unable to keep up with the
pace of the paperwork. This was, in part, because some of FHIS's most experienced Tegucigalpa staff
members were sent out to the field to serve as regional directors and communication with the central
server could not be established. All data entry and editing had to be done by hand. As a result, many of
the SIF IV subproject files were incomplete and subprojects remained officially active, long after they
should have been closed, due exclusively to the lack of documents and formalities that were not
possible to produce during the emergency. The current FHIS Executive Director dedicated the past
year to cleaning up "problem subprojects," which now number only 26, compared to over 2,300 a year
ago. Most of the problems were minor, including small budget balances that needed to be cleared or
some missing receipts. In only a few cases, subprojects were left incomplete; these problems were
related to the inexperience of some of the contractors selected during the reconstruction phase and the
fact that the prices of many construction materials rose as a result of so much demand at one time. It
should be noted that the internal and external audits conducted of FHIS's emergency phase subprojects
found no serious irregularities (other than a few missing formal documents).

Monitoring of Performance Indicators. The most significant breakdown, as a result of FHIS's rapid
response, was in the Management Information System (MIS). FHIS's MIS system was designed to
monitor results and manage the project cycle. Prior to the hurricane, the system was considered cutting


                                                 - 18 -

edge. It was sophisticated, highly centralized, and, at project start-up, fully operational. However, when
FHIS reconfigured itself in a decentralized hurricane recovery mode, the MIS was affected.

There were a number of factors that contributed to this problem. The system was not designed for
decentralized activities and the baseline targets no longer applied. When FHIS decentralized its staff to
nine regional offices, the emergency operating manual did not have enough detail and lacked
standardized subproject formats and procedures. As a result, each region prepared and supervised
subprojects in their own way. Because of the breakdown in telephone communications and electricity,
this information was often hand-written, and had to be transported back to FHIS's central office rather
than input into the system from a remote location via the internet. Once a week, each region sent all of
its paperwork back to the capital, but this data was often in a non-standardized format, and was
therefore rejected by the system. To compound the situation, many of the key managers from the
center, including the manager of the MIS, had been sent out to the field to serve as regional managers,
resulting in a shortage of staff and leadership at the center. Nonetheless, throughout the emergency,
FHIS managed to capture, on a weekly basis, a reduced set of data, deemed to be "essential," on all
subprojects. When the worst of the hurricane damage had been repaired and the regional offices
reconcentrated, the MIS director was faced with the challenge of entering a backlog of "nonessential"
information. At present, the database is complete with both essential and complementary information.

There were also some quality issues regarding information that was entered into the system ex-post.
The output indicators for this component focused on evidence of FHIS's targeting criteria (amount
invested by poverty category of municipality; amount invested rural vs. urban) and performance on
FHIS's 48 indicators. With a non-functional MIS system, FHIS was unable to provide up-to-date
information on project indicators for several months during the project implementation period. These
problems also caused some delay in the presentation of reliable project data in this report.

Delay in Returning to Normal Project Cycle. The end of FHIS's emergency work was not clearly
defined due to additional flooding in 1999, which affected eroded watersheds, and heavy rain from
Tropical Storm Michelle in October 2000. By June 2001, project progress had slowed due to these
compounding events and the fact that the sheer volume of bridge subprojects requiring design work
over-taxed the existing supply of consultants, slowing the design work and, in turn, the construction
schedule. FHIS continued to operate with the short subproject cycle during the end of 2000 and 2001,
even when the emergency phase was completed. The delay in returning to normal operations was a sort
of "emergency inertia," but also a transition time used by FHIS to develop a new way of doing
business based on lessons learned during the emergency procedures and in the municipal planning
exercises. FHIS was also developing a new Operations Manual that reclassified contractors in the
database and making improvements in the system of control and coverage of guarantees. As a result of
these delays and preparation of final Project Management Reports (PMRs), FHIS ultimately required
several credit extensions, finally closing the two credits in January 2003.

{1]It should be noted that employment generation is not an explicit objective of the project (except for Nuestras
Raíces), but this contribution is worth noting as it highlights the fact that a social fund can become a public
coping mechanism following a natural disaster.
[2]Other sources include: IDB, KfW, Sida, and OPEC.
[3]The Government counterpart funds as a percentage of the total cost of IDA-funded subprojects was 6.9
percent, just under the 7 percent planned level for subprojects, due to exchange rate fluctuations, in addition to
community contributions estimated at 10 to 20 percent.
[4]Later FHIS required the municipalities to present local building contractors with proven experience and a
certification program was initiated (see Section 4.5).



                                                     - 19 -

    [5]Included in the Social Assistance Category are 187 Nuestras Raíces subprojects, equivalent to 1,843
    micro-projects, each implemented by a different community group. The total investment made in the Nuestras
    Raíces projects was US $2.01 million, which directly benefited a total of 57,940 people affiliated with one of
    Honduras' ethnic minorities.
    [6]
       In general, in these municipalities, the plans were still valid since the consultation process was so new and
    successful and once the emergency phase was over, the mayors wanted to maintain the priorities as identified
    by community members.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
    As mentioned in the PAD, because the project was expected to be fully community demand-driven and
    was basically a line of credit, no cost-benefit analysis was carried out at appraisal. During the
    emergency/reconstruction, FHIS kept using its detailed technical criteria and standard designs in its
    subproject processing. The method of evaluating the projects was the same that is used in other SIF
    projects in the region, including: the criteria of completion or non-completion with the requirements;
    full documentation; and the subproject has the no objection of the corresponding ministry. Additionally,
    before, during, and after, the criteria of "best solution and least cost" and the cut off amount of
    maximum investment per beneficiary are applied to each subproject .

    It should be noted also that an impact evaluation study of SIF III, carried out by an experienced local
    consulting firm, was completed in early-1999, and substantially confirmed that the originally agreed
    FHIS program approach, as well as the subproject technical and economic assessment methodologies,
    could be expected to lead to a sustainable effort (see Annex 3).

4.4 Financial rate of return:
    Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
    The project's institutional development impact was substantial in the following areas:

    Emergency Preparedness. One of the most important achievements of SIF IV was FHIS's role in
    demonstrating to the GOH and donors its capacity to respond quickly and efficiently to a national
    disaster. FHIS transformed itself, almost overnight, from a centralized social investment fund into a
    nimble rehabilitation and reconstruction agency. As a result of this experience, FHIS now has detailed
    emergency preparedness response guidelines that will orient it the next time the country confronts a
    serious natural disaster. FHIS also played an important conflict resolution role during the difficult
    times after the disaster when there was much opportunism and political agitation. Again, FHIS played
    a valuable role in the maintenance of social order and peace during those conflictive times, mainly
    through its work in the heavily affected colonias populares of Tegucigalpa. At the local level, the
    project also contributed to municipal and community capacity to prepare for and react to emergency
    situations, and heightened awareness of the importance of environmental protection.

    Local Governance. FHIS's extensive work in 1998 to identify and prioritize community and
    municipal needs was an opportunity for the municipal mayors to practice a participatory approach to
    municipal planning. This work laid the foundation for a new way of working for FHIS and also for the
    municipalities in terms of capturing the demand of the communities based on a participatory
    democratic framework. The training provided by FHIS to local communities also had an impact. This
    exercise, piloted by FHIS at the national level, was an input into the development of the National
    Program of Local Development and Decentralization, carried out by the Governance Ministry. One of
    the pillars of this program is local consultation and strategic and democratic planning at the municipal



                                                        - 20 -

level. Another lesson learned by the municipalities, through their work with FHIS during the
emergency, was the importance of identifying qualified contractors for project execution.

FHIS's Institutional Capacity. SIF IV had both positive and negative impacts on FHIS's institutional
capacity. On the positive side, its work early on with communities and local governments gave it some
experience with a more demand-driven approach to operating a social fund. FHIS's leadership and
staff, initially skeptical about the importance of community participation, became ardent advocates for
the new approach. Also, in the aftermath of Mitch, the nine regional offices gave FHIS hands-on
experience with a decentralized operation. On the negative side, FHIS paid a price for its major
emergency repair efforts. Once it had abandoned the operating procedures outlined in its regular
operating manual, FHIS found it difficult to re-establish them as the FHIS norm.

Private Sector. During the emergency/reconstruction period, FHIS for the first time worked with local
building contractors, qualified carpenters, and construction microenterprises, some of which were less
qualified. Although this decision was not in the narrow interest of the Honduran Guild of Civil
Engineers and Architects, eventually an agreement was reached in order to allow small, local
individuals and enterprises to be listed in the FHIS contractor database (Inter-Institutional Cooperation
Agreement between FHIS, Colegio de Arquitectos de Honduras, y Colegio de Ingenieros de Honduras,
March 2, 2001). In order to improve the qualifications of these local contractors, FHIS, in coordination
with the National Institute of Professional Training (Instituto Nacional de Formación, INFOP),
developed and carried out a training and certification program. At present, over 800 individuals have
passed the theoretical and practical tests on topics such as improvements in construction techniques,
material quality control, and basic accounting.

Indigenous and Afro-Honduran Federations. FHIS worked in close coordination with the nine
Ethnic Federations (two Lencas, Pech, Tawahka, Miskito, Creole, Tolupan, Garífuna, Chortí) in the
design, implementation, and monitoring of the Nuestras Raíces Program. For the federations, it was a
big step forward to be sitting down at the same table with Government to plan the Nuestras Raíces
Program. In the past, the program had been implemented through local government, which did not
always act in the best interests of the minority populations. Nuestras Raíces actively engaged the
federations in a participatory budgeting process that resulted in transparent program management and a
fair distribution of the funds based upon the population size of each ethnic group. The federations
received basic training in community organization and the organization and management of Cajas
Rurales (community banks). The federations assisted Nuestras Raíces in forming the project groups
and in supervising the micro-projects. These factors helped build the capacity of Honduras' ethnic
federations, so that they are better able to mobilize, train, and otherwise assist their membership.
Perhaps the most important impact of working with federations is that by strengthening them, FHIS
contributed to the strength and cohesion of the different ethnic groups, not only in their struggles for
titling of their lands, but also in the preservation of ethnic heritage of all the groups.

Rural Water Sector. A forum of stakeholders was established, which continues to serve as the
principal body in the rural sector.

Social Assistance Program. The Mesa (committee) for the Innovative Social Assistance Program was
established at this stage and consolidated under SIF V.




                                                   - 21 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
    Hurricane Mitch and the flooding in 1999/2000 substantially affected the implementation and outcome
    of this project. The project was of critical importance in dealing with disaster relief, but, as mentioned
    above, this new focus had some positive and negative implications.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    Government Commitment and Counterpart Funding. Government met all of its commitments for
    counterpart funding, even with all the difficulties associated with recovering from Hurricane Mitch.

    Faith in FHIS as Lead Agency in Mitch Recovery Effort. When Hurricane Mitch hit, the President
    was quick to turn to FHIS for help in developing an emergency and recovery response strategy. The
    President's confidence in FHIS's capacity catapulted the fund into a high-profile role in reconstructing
    the country's social infrastructure.

    Frequent Changes in Leadership, after Initial Period. During the project implementation period,
    FHIS had four different Executive Directors, each with his or her own vision and priorities. This also
    resulted in a fair amount of turnover in key staff. As a result, FHIS showed reduced operational
    efficiency and loss of staff morale. In addition, the lack of organizational stability likely contributed to
    the delay in FHIS's return to business as usual.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    Superior Leadership and Staff Commitment in Hurricane Mitch Response. FHIS showed great
   vision and commitment in responding to post-Mitch reconstruction needs. The Executive Director at
   the time made quick, bold decisions that facilitated FHIS's effective response. FHIS staff worked day
   and night to get roads cleared and schools reopened in time for the new school year. The sector
   ministries credit FHIS with reconstructing most of their destroyed infrastructure. As a result of this
   extraordinary effort, FHIS demonstrated remarkable agility and efficiency in project execution. Any of
   the shortcomings described below should be understood against this backdrop.

   Inconsistent Operating Procedures during Hurricane Recovery. The FHIS emergency manual
   could have been more detailed and uniform. It would have been helpful, for example, if all nine regional
   offices had worked with a common set of subproject formats, so that subproject information was sent
   to the central office in a consistent format.

   MIS Not Well Adapted to Decentralized Hurricane Recovery Approach. FHIS's MIS, while highly
   sophisticated and well adapted to generating useful internal and external reports under normal
   circumstances, was highly centralized and proved unable to adapt easily to the revised project cycle
   instituted after Mitch. Eighteen months after the end of the recovery phase, the MIS was still being
   restored to regular monitoring of performance and impact indicators. As a result, FHIS's capacity to
   monitor institutional performance was limited throughout much of SIF IV, and during preparation of
   the ICR.




                                                     - 22 -

   Staff Capacity Stretched during Hurricane Recovery Period. Several of FHIS's senior staff were
   pressed into service during the hurricane recovery period to work as regional directors. While the need
   for trusted and experienced staff in the field was evident, it left FHIS's central office with a shortage of
   experienced staff, capable of responding to the changing needs of the organization. This led to the
   backlog of "problem subprojects" that only recently have been closed out.

   Contract Awards to Less Qualified Contractors. When time was of the essence during the
    emergency/reconstruction period, the competitive bidding process used by FHIS and all other
    government agencies was replaced by direct contracting whereby contractors/executing agencies were
    selected locally in consultation with the mayors. However, given the sheer volume of work required
    during this period, it was very difficult to identify enough qualified contractors. As a result, FHIS
    signed some contracts with less qualified contractors, some of whom failed to get guarantees. Although
    this does not appear to have had a major impact on the quality of the works completed under SIF IV, it
    was a weakness, and was one of the reasons there were initially so many problem subprojects.

    Financial Management. Prior to Mitch, FHIS was one of the first projects to adopt the Bank's new
    LACI system. Its cutting edge MIS at the time facilitated the change to the new financial management
    system. The breakdown in the MIS did eventually affect the quality of FHIS's Project Management
    Reports (PMRs), which resulted in an unsatisfactory rating for financial management in July 2000.
    The Bank responded quickly by sending technical assistance to strengthen FHIS's ability to prepare
    adequate PMRs. As a result, the situation was corrected within a few months.

    Coordination with Line Ministries. While both the health and education ministries recognize the
    invaluable role that FHIS played during the post-Mitch phase and they accept that FHIS was best
    qualified to carry out infrastructure-type projects, they also share the perception that not enough was
    done to make sure that subprojects prioritized at the local level were also consistent with the sector
    ministries' plans. This may reflect a natural tension between central line ministries and an agency that
    relies on local planning in a country that is in the process of moving from centralized to decentralized
    decision making. Institutional coordination was satisfactory, but some personal disagreements among
    staff still exist.

5.4 Costs and financing:
    Total project cost was US$161.7 million, of which IDA financed SDR 49.8 million (this amount was
    originally equivalent to US$67.5 million, but due to changes in the exchange rate between the SDR and
    the US Dollar, ultimately amounted to US$66.7). At appraisal, FHIS had expected US$73 million in
    co-financing from IDB, KfW, OPEC, and Sida. Actual commitments met these targets, while actual
    expenditures totaled only US$68.8 million or 43 percent of the total project cost. Government
    counterpart funding was expected to be US$22.7 million or 14 percent of total project cost; actuals
    were considerably higher at US$26.2 million or 16 percent. At appraisal, IDA funding was expected to
    reach 33 percent of total project financing; actual expenditures reached 41 percent, because of the
    US$22.5 Supplemental Credit, which was matched by increased government funding, but not by other
    sources (see Annex 2 for more detail). At appraisal, FHIS's operating costs were estimated at 11
    percent of the FHIS program's total costs; actual operating costs were right on target.




                                                      - 23 -

                                           Table 8 - Total Project Cost
       Source                             Estimated Total Cost          Actual Total Cost      Percent of Actual
                                              (US$ millions)              (US$ millions)          Total Cost
       IDA including Supplemental                  67.5                       66.7                    41
       Government of Honduras                       22.7                      26.2                    16
       Cofinancing expenditures                     73.0                      68.8                    43
       TOTAL*                                      163.2                     161.7                    100

    *Normally, contributions by beneficiaries, local governments, or NGO contributions are not monetized or
    included in financing plans and therefore not tracked specifically in MIS; however, these are estimated to be
    10 to 20 percent of investment costs.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
    Likely. The project's notion of sustainability for the investments changed after the hurricane. FHIS
    wanted to promote the sustainability of its investments, but it also had to balance this with the need to
    act quickly in as many communities as possible. Sustainability also depends on many factors, notably
    the quality of initial construction. FHIS, like many SIFs, provided training to build community
    capacity within its purview, but this in itself cannot ensure long-term sustainability of the works. The
    original project design included the following elements to enhance sustainability and most were
    partially completed:


    §   Continued coordination with line agencies and agreement on their responsibilities for operation and
    maintenance costs (fulfilled);
   §    Beneficiary participation in all phases of subproject cycle, including up-front contributions and
   commitments
   (partially fulfilled);
   §    Improvements in the capacities of local governments to work with communities and with relevant
   national authorities to promote operations and maintenance of local investments (pilot test was
    designed, but not implemented until subsequent project, SIF V);
   §    Improvements in subproject appraisal criteria to include assessments of institutional, technical, and
   financial capacities of municipalities/communities to handle maintenance; these assessments would
   include a review of plans, commitments and contributions (in the form of `maintenance contracts")
   from all relevant actors. The project could include support to help municipalities/communities improve
   weak capacities (partially fulfilled); and
   §    Training of beneficiaries in subproject use and maintenance, formation of user committees (
   partially fulfilled).

   FHIS initially established a framework for sustainability with its intensive participatory planning
   effort. One of the main subproject selection criteria was the degree to which the community had made
   up-front contributions to the subproject funding. In addition, the capacity of municipal governments to
   prepare municipal plans was strengthened as a result of the planning process. As noted previously,
   reliance on the participatory plans was suspended until after the emergency period. During the
   reconstruction phase, if a subproject was needed to reinstate priority services, it was approved with the
   signature of the FHIS regional director. Likewise, the quick pace of the work did not always allow for
   the necessary investment of time in evaluating the technical capacity of the communities to handle
   recurrent costs. In addition, with the pressure to move on to other hurricane repair subprojects
   requiring immediate attention, neither FHIS nor local governments had sufficient time to spend
   organizing and training maintenance committees. The limited attention to these issues during the



                                                       - 24 -

   emergency phase was not a serious concern for two reasons: (a) most of the communities had been
   trained previously when they first received the new infrastructure; and (b) the communities were
   participating actively in the restoration of the services, which is an even more significant factor in
   sustainability.

   In any case, available evidence indicates that prospects for sustainability are relatively good. The
   KfW-funded evaluation found that the majority of subprojects were in an acceptable state of repair and
   well evaluated. It also found that FHIS later returned to a number of subproject sites to organize Water
   and School Committees. Generally, Government has fulfilled its commitment to pay teachers and health
   workers, and locally collected fees cover other routine maintenance, which represents a significant
   improvement over the past. However, it is believed that increased local resources to address major
   repair needs will further enhance sustainability and this is being addressed in the follow-on SIF V.

   The Cajas Rurales (community banks) in the Nuestras Raíces Program have shown to be
    unsustainable when they are created independently in one community. The recent evaluation of this
    program also indicates that these Cajas Rurales should be created at wider levels, for example by
    groups of communities in order to benefit from the economy of scale.

    FHIS's sustainability as an institution has improved, as it is now an integral part of Government and
    receiving steady funding from both Government and donor agencies. A number of line ministries have
    also decided to channel their infrastructure construction and rehabilitation budgets through FHIS in
    recognition of its competence. Government also learned lessons on how to use an agency like FHIS to
    help with the emergency response--important for a disaster-prone country like Honduras.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
    With the country's ongoing need for further and improved priority social and economic infrastructure,
    FHIS is currently still receiving IDA support under SIF V, as well as complementary support from the
    IDB, KfW, and other agencies. It has also started to implement the intensive local government and
    community participation activities originally foreseen under SIF IV, with intensive monitoring and
    evaluation. The increased participation of local beneficiaries in every aspect of the subproject cycle
    should lead to their increased sense of subproject ownership and knowledge of proper operation and
    maintenance.

    FHIS's current strategy emphasizes the increased role of local governments and the new role of FHIS
    as the mechanism to balance central and local priorities. This new approach will likely take time to
    become incorporated and the need for investments will exceed local financing capacity for many years
    (although FHIS has shown that local financing can suffice for operations and maintenance). FHIS will
    likely need ongoing support, but long-term prospects for the increased role of local governments are
    good.

    FHIS forms a critical part of the Government's poverty reduction policy and has been designated as a
    first responder in the National System of Civil Defense, and is thus expected to continue to play a
    major role in close coordination with the relevant sector agencies. The National Decentralization and
    Local Development Program, approved in October 2002, assigns FHIS the role of municipal
    strengthening for the planning and management of projects. FHIS was also given the responsibility to
    improve the technical capacity of the municipalities. In the first few months of 2003, FHIS confirmed
    its commitment to decentralization and signed agreements with 56 municipalities for operational
    delegation of the project cycle. Recently, the central government, at the level of the Ministry of the
    Presidency, has approved a Municipal Strategic Planning Manual and has given FHIS the



                                                     - 25 -

    responsibility to support (technically and financially) the municipalities that solicit assistance. All these
    actions confirm that FHIS will continue to have an important role in the implementation of the national
    decentralization policy.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
    Highly Satisfactory. The Bank provided considerable support to FHIS during the preparation phase,
    including workshops on participation that succeeded in changing the, then, FHIS Executive Director's
    opinion of the value of community and municipal participation in the subproject cycle. The Bank also
    included the social assistance program and the two pilot efforts, which (in the pre-Mitch context) were
    sensible efforts to promote a more sustainable methodology. A strong Bank performance was evident in
    the high quality of the PAD, which received an outstanding QAG rating.

7.2 Supervision:
    Highly Satisfactory. The Bank's supervision activities were affected almost immediately by the Mitch
    emergency. The Bank provided a quick and flexible response for dealing with the new reality, and
    played a leadership role in bringing together FHIS's partners and crafting a response agreeable to all
    partners. It approved FHIS's hurricane recovery operating procedures, revised the project components,
    and approved a Supplemental Credit to accommodate the new developments. IDA was able to
    streamline disbursements with the more flexible disbursement procedures of the Loan Administration
    Change Initiative (LACI). The Government's comments (Section 9) acknowledge and praise the Bank
    for its appropriate and timely participation in the disaster response, the support provided to FHIS staff,
    and its work to adapt and streamline procedures. The Bank was aware of the possible drawbacks to the
    rapid operational pace. Once the recovery period was over, Bank staff was unrelenting in its efforts to
    urge the FHIS leadership to return to business as usual, and the Bank invested heavily in technical
    assistance for FHIS to help it get its MIS, procurement, and financial management systems back in
    working order. By the end of 2001, when it became evident that FHIS needed closer supervision and
    encouragement as it attempted to return to its regular program operations, the Bank contracted a local
    consultant to provide day-to-day support. The Nuestras Raíces Program staff was also highly satisfied
    with the level of support they received from a Bank consultant throughout the project period.

    Feedback on Bank performance was overwhelmingly positive; nonetheless, there was a suggestion that
    FHIS could have benefited from more technical assistance from Bank procurement staff when it was
    adapting its contracting procedures for the Supplemental Credit. In addition, Bank review and approval
    of bidding documents at one point took three months, slowing the pace of FHIS contracting and
    disbursements during the post-emergency phase.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
    The Bank's overall performance was exemplary, and is rated highly satisfactory.




                                                     - 26 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
    Highly Satisfactory. FHIS's management and staff were intensively involved in improving the project
    design, including the preparation of the complex and critically important pilot components. Some argue
    that FHIS should have more actively involved the line ministries during the preparation phase to ensure
    better coordination; however, in the end, a number of line ministries ended up channeling their
    resources through FHIS, recognizing that it was better qualified to build new infrastructure. Therefore,
    this lack of adequate coordination at preparation did not seem to have a long-term impact on FHIS's
    relationships with line ministries.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
    Satisfactory. Although the Government did contribute to the rapid turnover in FHIS's senior
    management and this caused implementation delays in more recent years, it also trusted FHIS to take
    the lead role in Mitch recovery efforts, and did continue to provide adequate counterpart funding.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
    Satisfactory. Immediately after the disaster, FHIS responded to requests from both local and central
    government to help rebuild the country's critical local infrastructure. FHIS staff, in coordination with
    municipal authorities, worked to open roads, restore services, and establish order. During the
    emergency period, FHIS focused its attention on doing, rather than monitoring. This massive effort and
    the total transformation of FHIS's operational procedures did not come without some drawbacks and
    following the emergency phase, FHIS struggled to address problems early on, such as its large pipeline
    of unfinished subprojects (as mentioned in Section 4.2). Subproject quality was uneven and FHIS's
    institutional capacity continued to be weak. However, the municipal participatory planning initiatives
    that were carried out before effectiveness (and resumed after the emergency phase and in SIF V) have
    had a lasting impact on FHIS's operating model, which has been implementing well in the follow-on
    SIF V.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
    Even though FHIS's response to the disaster was remarkable, the Borrower's overall performance is
    rated satisfactory, given the project management issues over the last two years of the project.

8. Lessons Learned

Emergency Response

Important Role of SIFs. The response of FHIS and IDA to the Mitch catastrophe showed the major role
that SIFs can play in such emergency situations because of their unique design and procedures. This
flexibility, largely a function of the fact that its operating procedures are determined in an Operations
Manual that can usually be adapted with minimal bureaucratic transactions makes it well suited to
responding in unforeseen circumstances. Social funds are also ideally suited to meet the combination of a
sudden need for employment and equally sudden need for investments in infrastructure in communities.
Social funds can serve as a public coping mechanism and help create a sense of national governance
through their role in prevention and resolution of conflicts in emergency situations. With this expanded role,
SIFs and donors should pay attention to environmental risk assessment and mitigation in the subproject
cycle.




                                                        - 27 -

Decentralization key to emergency response success. FHIS's decision to set up nine regional offices with
delegated responsibilities and resources facilitated its rapid response to local hurricane repair needs. With
the road and telecommunications infrastructure severely damaged by Mitch, having decision-makers at the
field level was essential. The difficulties FHIS had when it decentralized its operations almost from one day
to the next, helped to highlight the importance of carefully planning for decentralization in the future. As
FHIS explores ways to decentralize its operations during SIF V, it will need to be careful to develop and
test well thought-out operating procedures that do not depend solely on having trusted, long-term staff
signing the checks. These procedures should allow for a certain degree of local flexibility and autonomy,
while institutionalizing a number of checks and balances. In developing a decentralization strategy, FHIS
should be careful to coordinate closely with local government and line ministries at the municipal level to
respond to community priorities and also respect sectoral and other government investment priorities.

Partnership with municipalities and communities. The decentralized offices allowed FHIS to develop a
productive, collaborative relationship with the municipal governments and communities. Its active
involvement also contributed to the speed at which the hurricane damage was repaired and at the same time
made the communities aware that the damage can be resolved rapidly and efficiently if they actively work
together rather than just wait for external assistance. It is important for social funds to develop and sustain
a strong communication strategy with communities.

Need for emergency preparedness plan. Based on the Mitch experience, it is recommended that all SIFs
and their respective governments agree on what the SIF's role should be in the event of a national disaster.
This role should be clearly defined in a detailed emergency operating manual (i.e., contingency procedures)
that simplifies the project cycle, while ensuring transparent and efficient project management. In fact, based
on FHIS's experience, other SIFs have developed contingency emergency manuals. Key points in the
emergency manual should be how to increase the number of certified contractors and how to close the
projects administratively when physical execution is completed. By having well thought out emergency
operating procedures defined ahead of time, a SIF will not be faced with inventing new procedures under
extreme pressure, as FHIS was forced to do. Training for municipal level governments in emergency
preparedness should be part of any such plan. As part of its preparation for a possible emergency, SIFs
should also develop a MIS database template adapted to its simplified project cycle and a viable strategy
for inputting subproject data from decentralized sites.

Change in Approach. This project shows the reality of doing what is necessary in an emergency situation.
Speed and responsiveness can cause drawbacks that need to be recognized, but are often unavoidable. It
should also be recognized that appropriate actions during an emergency situation when the context has
changed drastically, may not be suitable for normal times. But emergency situations and the consequent
changes they cause can also be, as they were in the case of FHIS, opportunities for intensive learning, and
can point to new strategic directions not always perceived during "normal" times. Thus, FHIS actually used
some of the very disorder that resulted from the emergency period to rethink and reorganize to enhance
effectiveness.

Differentiate the emergency versus reconstruction phase. Future operations should recognize that the
transition back to normal operations can be facilitated by an up front limitation on the volume and
timetable of emergency subprojects. Following a disaster, SIFs should pursue a clear and simple emergency
phase (rehabilitation and repair of damage to previous conditions) and then transition to a larger
reconstruction phase with greater accumulated value of community participation, decentralization, and
subsequent institutional modernization.


                                                     - 28 -

Consider social needs other than infrastructure. When SIFs are involved in an emergency, it may be
appropriate to also consider a response to social needs unrelated to infrastructure. Because of its focus on
emergency rehabilitation of basic infrastructure, a subsequent evaluation showed that neither FHIS, nor
(indeed) the other agencies at that time, were really engaging other problems that became apparent during
the emergency--particularly in social service areas with attention to gender, such as counseling or attention
to security issues--which may not seem as urgent, but can have long-term impacts. For the future, it will
                                                                                      [1]


be important to build the capacity in countries to consider these issues. Other social funds have intervened
successfully in this area and FHIS has since developed a program to finance innovative programs in these
"softer" areas.

Role of the Bank

Responsive to needs and convener. The Bank showed the capacity to respond immediately to the Mitch
crisis and adapt to new needs. Bank staff convened other FHIS partners and in several days, all agreed on a
mini-emergency manual. The Bank also showed the capacity to respond to the GOH's needs following
additional flooding in 1999/2000 through the approval of a Supplemental Credit. The Supplemental Credit
was the most appropriate instrument to channel immediate financing so FHIS could continue to respond to
communities' emergency needs. In parallel, the Bank was engaged in a dialogue with FHIS on the new
phase of the SIF V, which would reinitiate the institutional strengthening and local participatory planning
activities as an integral part of FHIS's long-term strategic development.

Intensive Bank supervision of emergency response. A dramatic change in project approach requires
intensive Bank staff involvement at many levels ranging from approving new operating procedures,
pursuing supplemental financing, and providing close technical assistance. As this case shows, Bank
managers, the task team, and procurement and disbursement staff should be prepared to respond quickly
and stay engaged.

Ethnic Minority Programs

Serving ethnic minority populations requires a special approach. FHIS worked through ethnic umbrella
organizations, the federations, to reach targeted minority groups. This proved to be a highly effective
strategy; however, evidence shows success depended on a heavy investment in training at all levels. The
Ethnic Federations not only made the work in indigenous communities more efficient, but by providing
capacity building, Nuestras Raíces supported the conservation of the native cultures of Honduras and
increased the communities' negotiating abilities with government, particularly related to land demarcation
and titling. One of the challenges the Nuestras Raíces Program now faces is to build bridges so that the
ethnic communities can benefit from FHIS's mainstream subproject funding, and avoid the risk that the
program itself serves to marginalize the ethnic groups from these larger benefits. This does not apply only
to the FHIS subprojects, but in general for all the government organizations.

Community bank methodology and the payment for work. Based on this experience, the concept of
community banks (Cajas Rurales) should be cultivated among groups of communities, rather than at the
level of each community, in order to make the funds more sustainable.

[1]
   PREM Notes #57, August 2001. "Hurricane Mitch-the gender effects of coping and crises."




                                                     - 29 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
   INTRODUCTION
   This document gives a brief description of the role of FHIS and its experiences during the period of
   reconstruction following the devastation inflicted on our country's infrastructure by Hurricane Mitch.
   As a result of the damage caused by Mitch, FHIS was obliged to suspend its normal operations and to
   redirect its human and financial resources toward meeting the demand of the affected sectors, adapting
   its rules and procedures as necessary during the emergency and reconstruction periods.

   BACKGROUND AND JUSTIFICATION
   Mitch has been described as one of the strongest and most destructive phenomena to occur in modern
   times. It entered Honduran territory through the coastal departments of Gracias a Dios, Islas de la
   Bahía, Colón, and Atlántida, also touching the departments of Cortes and Yoro. The hurricane
   remained in those departments for three days, causing enormous destruction. It then followed an erratic
   trajectory, first penetrating the interior where its effects were felt in the departments of Olancho and
   Francisco Morazán, and then turning to the south before finally taking a westward turn and leaving
   Honduras for El Salvador, Guatemala and Mexico. The constant pounding of the land for so long by
   torrential rains resulted in widespread flooding and serious subsidence and landslides.

   Over 1.5 million people were evacuated, and 15,000 died or were never recovered. The damage to the
   country's overall infrastructure and economy was calculated at US$5 billion. According to official
   reports, 80 percent of roads and highways suffered serious damage, over 140,000 homes were
   destroyed, over 70 percent of staple crops were lost, and industry suffered incalculable damage.

   FINANCING
   Timely decisions by the international finance organizations enabled FHIS to rapidly handle emergency
   social demands. With the World Bank's approval, authorization was given to use the funds approved in
   the BM4 agreement approved in August 1998 for emergency and reconstruction projects. Also tapped
   to meet the emergencies were the FHIS funds originally budgeted for projects given priority at the
   community meetings [cabildos abiertos] and included in the Planes de Inversión Social Municipal. In
   addition, FHIS received immediate assistance from AID for water and sanitation projects.

   In January and February 1999, the German reconstruction bank KfW and the Swedish government
   added their contribution to the reconstruction effort, providing financing to support the work being done
   by FHIS. In November 1998, the IDB approved a loan of US$50 million, which could not be ratified,
   for reasons internal to Honduras, until April 1999. The central government made a timely participation
   in the form of several bridging loans totaling Lp 160 million.

   When all the damages and costs of the necessary reconstruction were added up, it was estimated that the
   country would need US$97 million. The World Bank contributed US$38 million, the IDB$32 million,
   KfW US$5 million, OPEC US$4 million, Sweden US$4 million, USAID US$ 4 million, and the
   government of Honduras US$4 million.

   WORLD BANK SUPPORT
   It is important to acknowledge the appropriate and timely participation of the World Bank, which in the
   hour of our terrible national disaster demonstrated its solidarity with our country, coming down here



                                                       - 30 -

only a few days after the hurricane hit. The presence of both the World Bank and KfW and the
assurance of their financial and technical support gave FHIS the necessary confidence and security that
it would be able immediately to tackle the emergencies facing the municipal mayors' offices. Their staff
also visited the devastated areas to estimate the assistance that would be required and to take decisions
on reorienting funds already negotiated. They helped FHIS establish procedures for facilitating the
contracting of emergency projects. Their support was continuous and very flexible, and in many cases
they initiated or promoted rapid systems of oversight, giving FHIS supervised freedom to move its funds
without causing any delays.

SOCIAL SECTOR DEMAND DURING THE EMERGENCY
The actions taken by FHIS to meet the immediate needs of the population in the first days following the
emergency focused on supplying food to the most affected inhabitants in the Department of Colón.

Demands subsequently focused on clean-up projects, rehabilitation of water and sanitation systems,
school centers, water passes, and temporary emergency points to facilitate the access and movement of
persons as well as the transportation of means of assistance for hurricane victims.

TARGETING
The decisions on allocating FHIS resources for reconstruction targeted projects identified in the
assessment of social infrastructure damage for each municipality, giving rise to the creation of a
portfolio of Mitch projects. The assessment of damages by FHIS's own assessors and external experts
was carried out in coordination with the municipal mayors of the affected communities, resulting in the
production of a standard FHIS social infrastructure map showing the relative concentration of damage
per inhabitant and geographic unit.

As a result of the hurricane damage the poverty index rose in all of the country's municipalities, except
in the ten that escaped the devastation. The poverty index rose by an average of 4 percent, making it
necessary to alter the poverty map to take account of the Mitch factor in order to benefit the most
affected municipalities.

EMERGENCY PLAN
To facilitate and expedite the procedures of appraisal, approval, and contracting of emergency projects,
Act No. 308 of November 5, 1998 was promulgated, approving the creation of eleven regional offices,
each with a Regional Director and a technical staff of engineers, appraisers, and supervisors, with
authority to award projects to contractors, pay advances, and handle disbursements. For this purpose, it
was necessary to adjust the ceilings for project contracts, and steps were taken to simplify the appraisal
procedures, facilitating the processing of guarantees and shortening the procedures involved in the
project cycle.

This resulted in FHIS quadrupling its previous average for awarding project contracts. It approved
2,182 projects for US$40 million in the three months of the emergency and was able to maintain control
over procedures and costs thanks to a constant auditing process. In three months, 40 percent of the
social infrastructure damaged by Mitch was able to be reconstructed.




                                                  - 31 -

PROJECT CYCLE PRIOR TO MITCH
Prior to the emergency period, FHIS had a planned budget allocation based on the poverty map, and had
defined a portfolio of projects to be financed in each municipality, based on identification of the needs
of each community as validated in the municipal assembly and prioritized in community meetings where
social investment plans were defined for the respective municipality. FHIS selected projects that it could
finance, and these then became part of the project portfolio.

PROJECT CYCLE DURING THE EMERGENCY
For the emergency period, FHIS was allowed to relax certain procedures. It was authorized, before
determining the magnitude of the damage, to approve projects up to a maximum of 40 percent of the
planned municipal allocation. As it turned out, there was a change in this strategy, the original ceiling
being suspended and funds being provided commensurate with the actual amount of damage.

EXPERIENCES WITH THE PROJECT CYCLE DURING THE EMERGENCY
During the project cycle, community participation in project management was minimal after the initial
identification stage. This is understandable given the need for a rapid response.

During the emergency, contractors [ejecutores] were selected by the Regional Director at the proposal
of the municipalities. Contractors had to be listed in the FHIS contractor database, but where none were
listed in the database new ones had to be entered.

All projects approved by FHIS were carried out with costs assessed using information provided by the
cost center, the system being installed in the computer at the regional seat. Each seat had a specialist for
that purpose.

Each contract required performance security of a minimum of 5 percent and a maximum of 15 percent
of the amount of the contract. During the emergency, for projects in excess of US$50,000, the security
consisted of a bond in the form of a fianza mercantil, or failing that, a personal check. For projects of
less than US$50,000, FHIS provided an advance based on a promissory note endorsed by two persons
well known in the community or by the mayor of the municipality.

DIFFICULTIES, DEFICIENCIES, AND WEAKNESSES
With the emergency created by Mitch, it became clear that FHIS was not fully prepared to handle
natural disasters of the size generated by the passage of this hurricane. It should be recalled that the
institution had difficulties right at the beginning in responding to the demands of the suffering
inhabitants, and that its operating, administrative, accounting, legal and information systems were not
designed to respond to an emergency situation of the size of that created by Mitch.

Following are the most significant problems:

      ·       Logistical support was insufficient, and this made operations difficult.
      ·       The most technically and socially complex projects were not always appraised by
              professionals with experience in those fields.
      ·       There was no standard menu, which caused problems in terms of the formulation,
              appraisal, monitoring, and auditing of new emergency projects, such as clean-up and the
              provisional opening of roads.
      ·       The fact that there wasn't a quantification of actual damage for each municipality
              complicated the programming of activities.
      ·       Because of the lack of a system connection, project cycle information was not updated


                                                    - 32 -

                 until the very end of the process.
        ·        All the original documentation was transferred to the central office even before a project
                 was completed.
        ·        In some cases, project supervision was inadequate, since some individuals hired for that
                 purpose failed, for various reasons, to comply with their contractual obligations.
        ·        Communities, which should be involved in the social management of projects, were not
                 so involved in all projects.
        ·        The various audits being carried out simultaneously by several different agencies made it
                 difficult for the Regional Directors to carry out their tasks.
        ·        Routine auditing procedures were applied to the emergency process.
        ·        The regional offices were restricted to dealing only with the replacement of damaged
                 infrastructure, which in some cases resulted in a duplication of effort.

   LESSONS LEARNED DURING THE EMERGENCY
   FHIS's participation in the emergency demonstrated the institution's operational capacity, with its offer
   of specific actions to meet the most urgent needs of the communities. Based on an inventory of the needs
   of the country's most affected communities, the Regional Directorates were able to tackle the emergency
   immediately.

   The emergency process facilitated direct relations between the Regional Director and the contractors, the
   municipal mayors, and the community representatives.

   The experience with decentralization acquired by FHIS during the emergency made it possible to define
   certain procedures and strategies to be revisited by the institution with a view to their use as part of the
   current process.

(b) Cofinanciers:
   The Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) carried out an evaluation of a sample of 29 projects out of
   the 274 projects it financed during FHIS IV, of which 82.5 percent were categorized as "Emergency"
   projects and 17.5 percent "Reconstruction" projects. The evaluation results shed some light on the
   quality of Bank-financed projects, since the KfW portfolio of projects was very similar to those financed
   by the Bank.

   The FHIS/KfW IV program was subdivided into "Emergency" projects and "Reconstruction" projects
   following hurricane Mitch, and agreements were reached with the sources of financing on the
   amendment and simplification of objectives and in relation to procedures.

   A total of 274 projects were carried out under the program, comprising:

        · 65 water projects (including 17 training programs [capacitaciones]);
        · 3 community projects;
        · 118 education projects (kindergarten, schools, furniture, and training programs);
        · 6 health projects:
        · 82 road network projects.

   Of these projects, 82.5 percent were identified during the Emergency phase and the remaining 17.5
   during the subsequent Reconstruction phase. In terms of achievement of objectives, the following
   should be noted:




                                                     - 33 -

      (i)      During the emergency, funds were no longer distributed to the regions according to degree
               of poverty but instead allocated according to the degree of need. The needed economic and
               social infrastructure works were installed for the communities according to plan, but with
               the limitations described below.

      (ii)     The generation of employment and income followed a conventional pattern: depending on
               the type of project, between 25 and 30 percent of the direct costs were earmarked for
               skilled and unskilled labor, thereby accomplishing this objective.

      (iii)    According to FHIS data, women were employed in only 22 infrastructure projects, or 8
               percent, which did not accomplish the KfW gender equity objective, which was to have
               women employed or trained in at least 90 percent of infrastructure projects.

      (iv)     Of the 29 projects visited during this evaluation, 90 percent are operating and are
               adequately maintained (thus accomplishing the objective to have problems "found in no
               more than 20 percent").

      (v)      In all the completed potable water projects there are active and apparently efficient
               self-help organizations which charge regular tariffs to cover operating costs (objective
               accomplished).

The consultants talked with officials from different government departments, interviewed various
institutions, and reviewed the information from the FHIS data bank. In one extensive trip they visited a
total of 29 projects, traveling to the targeted communities, holding meetings with the community
organizations and with representatives of the technical offices in the different city halls, and surveying
the critical opinions of the various actors of civil society that had participated in definition and
construction of the programs. They also obtained photographic documentation and had the interviewees
fill out forms providing details and first-hand information designed to point up the difference between
the condition of the infrastructure works upon completion of construction, during the monitoring
process, and at the present time.

These surveys and inspections yielded the following conclusions.

Development of the works (project cycle)
Within the framework of deconcentration and municipal strengthening eleven regional offices were
created, mostly with new and inexperienced staff, and it was decided at the same time to simplify
procedures. Because of the state of emergency, FHIS was under pressure to provide an immediate
response to the needs of the communities, and therefore geared its efforts to accomplishing the minimum
necessary to get the works up and running. This meant that new contracts had to be concluded later to
handle adjustments and additional works.

The fact of the emergency possibly contributed to the partially superficial nature of project formulation
and appraisal, the technical documentation not always being complete. The validity of the parameters
was not always checked, nor the demand-supply relationship.

Ninety-nine percent of the works were contracted out directly to contractors recommended by the
different city halls without FHIS prequalification. While only 20 percent of the projects had cost
overruns, it must also be noted that only 47 percent were completed by the original completion date.




                                                   - 34 -

Supervision of the works was problematic, inadequate, and spotty, owing to the fact that the
supervisors' visits were few and far between and there was little quality control.

Quality of the works
The water supply and drainage projects were poorly formulated (lack of hydrological studies) and
inadequate in scope. The parameters for school construction were taken from the prototypes from the
corresponding line ministry: the designs, inappropriate to the characteristics of the zone and the users'
demands, were the cause of quality problems particularly in the windows, roofs (badly placed), floors
and walls (fissures). Such prototypes are not suited for zones with hot and cold climates and are not
compatible with traditional uses or local folk wisdom.

Where the health posts are concerned, the quality of the work is generally acceptable, but some of them
lack baths for the patients and/or the incinerators essential for rational operation.

Maintenance
Most of the facilities are in an acceptable state of maintenance thanks to the initiative of their staff and
to the active, voluntary and sustained participation of the local inhabitants and their organizations. But
since the inhabitants lack the necessary resources, they are unable to improve the condition of the
infrastructure provided for them or sometimes even to complete all the necessary repairs.

The ministries of health and education do not contribute specific funds for maintenance. Cleaning and
the repair of any damage are at the mercy of the staff and of the users and their social organizations.
The employers' associations [patronatos] help to support the health posts, and some parents'
associations provide human resources and materials to support the daily upkeep (of the schools) and to
ensure their children are fed.

FHIS is promoting a new culture of participation, with beneficiaries participating in the entire project
cycle, from identification, negotiation, and implementation support to sustainable management of the
facilities. To that end, training programs and special resources are being provided through the
Preventive Maintenance Fund.

The emergency gave no room to promote measures to guarantee sustainability, but later on FHIS
revisited this subject and organized training programs for Water Boards and School Committees during
the reconstruction phase. In future it would be advisable for the implementation of infrastructure
projects to be linked to the provision of such supplemental measures as may be needed to guarantee
their sustainability.

Institutional aspects
Citizen participation is a recourse for ensuring better identification of the community's needs and
promoting user ownership of public investments. FHIS supports the strengthening of local
governments, promoting training programs for trainers, user groups, and communities, and
incorporating the municipal mayors' offices in the total project definition cycle. This process was
already under way in 1998 when the initiative was taken to hold community meetings for the
participatory formulation of the municipal investment plans, the basis for FHIS project identification.
The advent of hurricane Mitch interrupted the natural course of this process.




                                                  - 35 -

   One aim of the decentralization process will be to strengthen the municipalities both with respect to
   project identification and in the delivery of resources through the Preventive Maintenance Fund. So far,
   very few municipalities are in a condition to undertake such tasks: they are still awaiting the technical
   and financial resources that will enable them to meet these new commitments.

   The NGOs are playing an important role in this process of strengthening the local institutions and social
   capitalization: tapping into the knowledge, attitudes, and habitual practices of the inhabitants, training
   various actors and providing technical assistance to the municipalities, especially those who do not yet
   have the appropriate technical teams.

   Summary of the most serious shortfalls
        ·        The diagnosis of demand is not based on an analysis of supply and demand throughout the
                 entire area of influence of the proposed measure.
        ·        Certain designs are not always suited to climate conditions or previous usage in all of the
                 country's regions, which are highly diverse in terms of topography and climate.
        ·        There is no sustained strategy for communication between FHIS and the communities.
        ·        Beneficiaries do not feel accountable, and have not received formal training to provide
                 them with the necessary skills for maintaining the works.
        ·        Poor management and monitoring of works quality.
        ·        FHIS made it clear that beneficiaries were required to maintain the works, but has not
                 monitored compliance.
        ·        The procedure for selecting local contractors, supervisors and inspectors is not
                 transparent.
        ·        There is no coordination between contractor and supervisor prior to start-up of the work.
        ·        Supervisor visits are brief, inefficient, and inadequate.
        ·        "Social oversight," in the sense of a group of formally trained beneficiaries authorized to
                 monitor the works, does not exist.
        ·        Inadequate equipping of certain schools and health centers.
        ·        Poor orientation of development criteria and impacts.
        ·        No explicit targeting of resources in the zones of greatest poverty.
        ·        Insignificant economic impact on the communities.
        ·        The inclusion of women in the works or official organizational bodies fell short of KfW
        expectations.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
   Not Applicable

10. Additional Information

    Not Applicable




                                                     - 36 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Increases in rates of access to and        Actual impacts require an evaluation and it   Data represents all financing sources unless
utilization of social and economic            takes several years to measure. An Impact     otherwise noted.
infrastructure, and social assistance         Evaluation is planned. At this time, only
programs.                                     leading indicators can be provided.           Total # of subprojects: 6,137
                                                                                            Amount of Subprojects: $137.7 million

                                                                                            % Subprojects by Sector:
                                                                                            Education: 42%
                                                                                            Municipal: 36%
                                                                                            Water and Sanitation: 9%
                                                                                            Social Assistance (including Nuestras
                                                                                            Raíces): 6%
                                                                                            Health: 5%
                                                                                            Environment: 2%

2. Evidence that investments are targeted to See above. Also note that the allocation       Percent of Subproject Investment by
the poor.                                     formula was adjusted after Hurricane Mitch to Municipal Poverty Category
                                              incorporate communities in greatest need.             Emergency          Reconstruction
                                              The poor colonias populares near the largest Very Poor       19%                   23%
                                              cities (considered less poor municipalities)  Poor           16%                   14%
                                              were seriously affected by Mitch and thus     Deficient      25%                  25%
                                              during the emergency and reconstruction,        Subtotal     60%                   62%
                                              FHIS invested in these areas.                 Regular        13%                   10%
                                                                                            Acceptable     27%                  28%
                                                                                              Subtotal      40%                  38%

                                                                                            Per Capita Subproject Investment by
                                                                                            Municipal Poverty Category:
                                                                                            Very Poor: $36
                                                                                            Poor: $12
                                                                                            Deficient: $31
                                                                                            Regular: $18
                                                                                            Acceptable: $30

                                                                                            Percent of Subproject Investments at the
                                                                                            community-level (%) (FHIS analysis):
                                                                                            Extremely Poor: 76%
                                                                                            High Poverty: 18%
                                                                                            Poor: 6%

3. Evidence that investments reflect the      See above.                                    After Hurricane Mitch, 218 of the 298
priorities of the targeted communities and                                                  participatory municipal plans were still valid.
beneficiaries.                                                                              The other plans were updated to reflect any
                                                                                            new priorities (see Section 4.2).

4. Evidence that subprojects are in operation See above                                     Supervision visits confirm this is happening.
and maintained for a reasonable number of
years, depending on subproject type.




                                                                 - 37 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Amount and number of subprojects;           FHIS provided performance indicators as      Total # of subprojects: 6,137
breakdown by type of subproject; evidence of part of its annual work programs each year.    Amount of Subprojects: $137.7 million
quality subprojects                            These documents, showing planned goals       Total # subprojects (IDA, GOH): 3,341
                                               and actuals, are attached in the PSR system. Amount (IDA): $63.9 million
                                               The main indicators, as listed in the PAD,   Amount (GOH): $7.7 million
                                               with actuals are detailed here.              Total # subprojects other sources: 2,796
                                                                                            Amount (other): $66.1 million

                                                                                            Emergency/Recovery Subprojects: 4,138
                                                                                            Municipal Priority Subprojects: 1,521
                                                                                            Ministerial Priority Subprojects: 107
                                                                                            Social Assistance (including Nuestras
                                                                                            Raíces): 371

                                                                                            % Subprojects by Sector (IDA, GOH
                                                                                            financing only)
                                                                                            Municipal: 54%
                                                                                            Education: 27%
                                                                                            Water and Sanitation: 10%
                                                                                            Social Assistance (including Nuestras
                                                                                            Raíces): 6%
                                                                                            Health: 2%
                                                                                            Environment: 1%

                                                                                            The KfW-funded evaluation of 29 SIF IV
                                                                                            subprojects found that the water and
                                                                                            sanitation subprojects had a number of
                                                                                            design problems, but the school and health
                                                                                            subprojects were generally of good quality.
                                                                                            FHIS did address any quality issues that
                                                                                            surfaced in this evaluation (see also the KfW
                                                                                            evaluation in Section 9).
2. a) Number of municipalities carrying out    See above.                                   Prior to effectiveness and Hurricane Mitch,
participatory local planning exercises; quality                                             nearly all the 298 municipalities carried out
of such exercises;                                                                          municipal planning exercises. A total of over
                                                                                            15,000 community profiles were created and
                                                                                            open public meetings were held at the
                                                                                            municipal level. These meetings resulted in
                                                                                            municipal plans with prioritization of
                                                                                            subprojects. During the emergency, there
                                                                                            was close collaboration between FHIS and
                                                                                            the 266 affected municipalities as a result of
                                                                                            this planning exercise. This process was
                                                                                            highly effective and it laid the groundwork for
                                                                                            the participatory planning approach now
                                                                                            being pursued under the SIF V and the
                                                                                            Government's Local Development Strategy.
2. b) Number of municipalities managing        See above.                                   Agreements signed with 56 municipalities
subproject cycle;                                                                           (2003)
2. c) Number of municipalities with a          See above.                                   This information will be provided in impact
coherent and working plan for maintenance.                                                  evaluation to be carried out.
3. a) FHIS operating expenses as a             11%                                          11%
percentage of total expenses
3. b) Amount invested by poverty category of See above.                                     Amount of Subproject Investment by
municipality;                                                                               Municipal Poverty Category (US$million)
                                                                                                   Emergency Reconstruction Total
                                                                                            Very Poor      11.6         18.0       29.6
                                                                                            Poor            9.5         10.8       20.3
                                                                                            Deficient      14.3         19.3       33.6
                                                                                              Subtotal      35.4         48.1      83.5
                                                                                            Regular         7.3           8.7      16.0




                                                                 - 38 -

                                                                   Acceptable     15.4        22.8      38.2
                                                                     Subtotal      22.7       31.5      54.2

                                                                   Percent of Total Subproject Investment by
                                                                   Municipal Category:
                                                                   Very Poor: 21%
                                                                   Poor: 15%
                                                                   Deficient: 25%
                                                                   Regular: 12%
                                                                   Acceptable: 27%

                                                                   Percent of Subproject Investment by
                                                                   Municipal Poverty Category (%) IDA, GOH
                                                                   only
                                                                                 Emergency      Reconstruction
                                                                   Very Poor         21%            22%
                                                                   Poor              16%            13%
                                                                   Deficient          26%           26%
                                                                     Subtotal         63%            61%
                                                                   Regular            13%           12%
                                                                   Acceptable         24%           26%
                                                                     Subtotal         37%            38%


3. c) Amount invested rural vs. urban        See above.            In Honduras, the distinction between rural
                                                                   and urban is not an accurate indicator since
                                                                   "urban" includes small municipal centers in
                                                                   rural areas.
                                                                           #       Amount         %
                                                                   Rural   2,958    US$54.3       39%
                                                                   Urban 3,173      US$83.4       61%

                                                                          Emergency %       Reconstruction
                                                                   Rural      42%                 40%
                                                                   Urban      58%                 60%

                                                                   (IDA and GOH only)
                                                                           #       Amount         %
                                                                   Rural   1,572    US$27.4       40%
                                                                   Urban 1,769      US$40.9       60%


3. d) FHIS maintains a set of 48 indicators, See above.            Indicators are included in the work program
evaluated weekly                                                   documents mentioned above.
3. e) Satisfactory ratings by                See above.            An analysis is planned under the Impact
beneficiaries/users, local governments,                            Evaluation. See also KfW evaluation in
international financing agencies.                                  Section 9.
4. Description and analysis of lessons       See above.            The ICR presents the most significant
learned.                                                           lessons learned. See also Section 9.

1End of project




                                                         - 39 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (IDA, cofinancing, and counterpart; US$ million equivalent)
                                                                  Original      Revised    Actual/Latest Percentage
                                                                  Appraisal     Estimate   Estimate (i)  of Revised
                                                                  Estimate     (Original +                Estimate
                                                                             Supplementa
                                                                               l Estimate
                        Component                                US$ million  US$ million  US$ million
1. Subproject Financing
    a. Social and Economic Infrastructure Subprojects               96.90       125.2         129.10        103%
    b. Special Programs                                             15.50        15.5           8.60        55%
    Subtotal                                                        112.4       140.7          137.7        98%

2. Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening               1.30        0.3               0         0%
3. Pilot Program to Strengthen Community and Rural                    3.5        0.1               0         0%
Water Systems
4. Project Management
a. FHIS Operating Costs                                             15.40        18.2          17.80        98%
    b. Institutional Strengthening                                   1.60        1.6            2.00        125%
    c. Equipment and Vehicles                                        1.70        1.7            2.50        147%
d. External Auditing                                                 0.30        0.3            0.40        133%
    e. Monitoring and Evaluation                                     0.30        0.3            1.30        433%
    Subtotal                                                         19.3        22.1           24.0        109%

Total Baseline Cost                                               136.50        163.2          161.7        99%
                          Total Project Costs                     136.50        163.2          161.7        99%
Total Financing Required (all sources                               118.0       140.5          135.5        96%
except Government counterpart)
Notes: (i) Totals are subject to exchange rate fluctuations and rounding.
In all subsequent tables, Appraisal Estimate includes both Original and Supplemental Credit.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                        Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                  2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                                0.00                9.60            47.10         61.60         118.30
                                        (0.00)              (8.90)         (43.80)        (0.00)        (52.70)
2. Goods                                0.50                0.60            0.40          0.30           1.80
                                        (0.50)              (0.60)         (0.40)         (0.00)        (1.50)
3. Services                             0.00                0.00            13.30         11.50         24.80
(Consultant plus Training)              (0.00)              (0.00)         (13.30)        (0.00)        (13.30)
4. Operating Costs                      0.00                0.00            0.00          18.25         18.25
                                        (0.00)              (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                        0.00                0.00            0.00          0.00           0.00
                                        (0.00)              (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
   Total                                0.50                10.20           60.80         91.65         163.15
                                        (0.50)              (9.50)         (57.50)        (0.00)        (67.50)
Note: Totals are subject to exchange rate fluctuations and rounding.



                                                        - 40 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     1
                                                           Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                      2         N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                                 Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               9.90              58.40             69.40            137.70
                                           (0.00)             (9.20)             (55.00)          (0.00)            (64.20)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.20               0.40             1.90               2.50
                                           (0.00)             (0.20)             (0.40)           (0.00)             (0.60)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.30               1.60             1.51               3.41
   (Consultant plus Training)              (0.00)             (0.30)             (1.60)           (0.00)             (1.90)
   4. Operating Costs                       0.00               0.00               0.00             17.80             17.80
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00               0.00             0.30               0.30
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
       Total                                0.00              10.40              60.40             90.91            161.71
                                           (0.00)             (9.70)             (57.00)          (0.00)            (66.70)
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works to be procured by three price quotations or direct contracting and goods to be procured through
       national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical
       assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds
       to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                          Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 IDA        Govt.        CoF.          IDA          Govt.      CoF.         IDA     Govt.     CoF.
1. Subproject Financing
   a. Social and Economic       56.30       4.20        65.60        60.40          7.30       61.40       107.3    173.8     93.6
Infrastructure Subprojects
   b. Special Programs           8.10       0.00         6.50         3.50          0.40        4.70        43.2     0.0      72.3
   Subtotal                     64.40       4.20        72.10        63.90          7.70       66.10        99.2    183.3     91.7
2. Pilot Program for Local       0.10       0.20         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00        0.0      0.0      0.0
Institutional Strengthening
3. Pilot Program to              0.00       0.10         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00        0.0      0.0      0.0
Strengthen Community
and Rural Water Systems
4. Project Management
a.FHIS Operating Costs           0.00       17.20        0.00         0.00          16.40       1.30        0.0      95.3     0.0
b. Institutional                 1.00       0.20         0.00         1.60          0.00        0.20       160.0     0.0      0.0
Strengthening
c. Equipment and Vehicles        1.40       0.70         0.70         0.60          1.10        0.80        42.9    157.1    114.3
d. External Auditing             0.30       0.00         0.00         0.30          0.00        0.00       100.0     0.0      0.0
e. Monitoring and                0.30       0.10         0.20         0.30          0.50        0.40       100.0    500.0    200.0
Evaluation
  Subtotal                       3.10       18.50        0.90         2.80          18.50       2.70        90.3    100.0    300.0
Total Project Costs             67.50       22.70       73.00        66.70          26.20      68.80        98.8    115.4     94.2




                                                           - 41 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

  The PAD of the original credit did not provide a cost-benefit analysis, because the demand-driven
  nature of the social investment fund project made this difficult, if not impossible. In addition, with
  virtually all project resources allocated to emergency repair and rehabilitation activities, this has also
  not been tried ex post. Although the FHIS was still using its agreed technical evaluation criteria and
  standard designs, it had stopped carrying out economic evaluations of its emergency subprojects. Still,
  anecdotal evidence confirms that those subprojects had high "pay-offs", since they consisted of
  relatively small investments aimed at reestablishing existing subprojects.

  The Memorandum and Recommendation of the President on the Supplemental Credit did contain an
  economic analysis of the activities to be funded under this additional credit. The analysis drew mainly
  upon the "Impact Evaluation of the Honduran Social Investment Fund (FHIS III, 1994-97), completed
  by a local consulting firm in February 1999. The analysis confirmed that, at the macro-level, FHIS had
  been instrumental in attracting additional foreign resources (crowding in). It also stated that the
  likelihood that a FHIS investment would cause community members to switch from private to public
  services (crowding out) was slim. As far as FHIS as a delivery mechanism is concerned, the analysis
  provided detailed data on its satisfactory poverty targeting. Finally, at the subproject level, FHIS had
  been using satisfactory technical assessment criteria, and would further improve its economic
  assessment criteria. As mentioned above, this did not happen under this project, although both technical
  and economic assessments are now again taking place in accordance with the originally agreed
  operating manual.

  The Impact Assessment did provide useful data by sector, showing various areas requiring different
  approaches. The participatory approach aimed at under this project was fully in line with those
  findings. An impact assessment is planned under SIF V.




                                                  - 42 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/25/1997                4    TASK MANAGER (1),
                                             CONSULTANTS (2), KfW (1)
              10/06/1997                2    TASK MANAGER, KfW (1)
              10/24/1997                5    TASK MANAGER (1), PUBLIC
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             CONSULTANT (1), KfW (1),
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              11/25/1997                1    CONSULTANT (INDIGENOUS
                                             PEOPLE)
              04/07/1998                1    ENGINEER (1)
              04/25/1998                3    FHIS - Washington DC (3)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              2/22/98                   1    MISSION LEADER
              2/22/98                   7    ECONOMIST (1),
                                             PROCUREMENT (1),
                                             FINANCE (1), CONSULTANTS
                                             (4).

 Supervision
                                             Note: Some additional
                                             supervision not accounted for
                                             in this table, given overlaps
                                             with SIF V project
                                             preparation and supervision.
              12/11/1998                4    TASK MANAGER (1); SOCIAL            HS             HS
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                             RESETTLEMT&DISASTER
                                             (1); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
                                             DEV (1)
              02/27/1999                7    TASK MANAGER (1);                   HS             HS
                                             CONSULTANT (3); US
                                             GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (1);
                                             FEMA CONSULTANT (1);
                                             KFW CONSULTANT (1)
              11/05/1999                7    TASK MANAGER (1); INST.             HS             HS
                                             STRENGHT. SPEC. (1);
                                             WATER & SANIT. SPEC. (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); IMPACT
                                             EVAL. SPEC. (1); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1);
                                             CONSULTANT-IND.ISSUES
                                             (1)
              03/17/2000                7    TM (1); INST. STRGHTNG (1);         S               S
                                             SOCIAL ASSISTANCE (1);



                                              - 43 -

                       RURAL WATER AND SANIT
                       (1); PREPARATION
                       COORDINATR (1);
                       INTERAGENCY COORD (1);
                       ENGINEER / PROCUREMENT
                       (1)
      07/08/2000    6  TM (1); INST.                 S    S
                       STRENGTHENING (1);
                       WATER & SANITATION (2);
                       ENVIR. / PREP COORD (1);
                       ENGINEER / PROCUREMENT
                       (1)
      02/02/2001    5  TTL (1); INFRASTR. / W&S      S    S
                       (1); M&E (1); SF SPECIALIST
                       (1); FINANCIAL
                       MANAGEMENT (1)
      07/16/2001    7  TASK TEAM LEDER (1);          S    S
                       SUPERVISION, WATER (1);
                       CONSULTANT (1);
                       FINANCIAL MNGMT (1);
                       PROCUREMENT (1); LOCAL
                       INSTL STGTHG (1); MIS (1)
      04/05/2002    12 TTL (1); INFRTR/W&S (1); SF   S    S
                       SPECIALIST (2); FIELD IMPL
                       COORDINATOR (1); LOCAL
                       INST. STRGT. (1);
                       PROCUREMENT SPEC. (2);
                       WATER & SANITATION (1);
                       SOCIAL ASSISTANCE (1);
                       FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                       (1); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
                       (1)


ICR
      07/17/2002    7  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S    S
                       SF SPECIALIST (1);
                       PROCUREMENT
                       SPECIALIST (1); LOCAL
                       INST. STRGT. (1);
                       SOCIAL PROTECTION
                       SPECIALIST (1);
                       CONSULTANT M&E;
                       ENGINEER
                       CONSULTANT (1).




                       - 44 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                             No. Staff weeks                      US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                            4.4                                0.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                               175.6                             97.66
  Supervision                                       108.03                             245.77
  ICR                                                   2.5                                6.5
  Total                                             290.53                             350.43
Source: This table is based on information about staff weeks and US$ amounts currently in SAP (FY98, FY99,
         FY00, FY01, FY02 and FY03) and FACT system (FY97, FY98, and FY99).




                                                          - 45 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Indigenous Peoples'
Development
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 46 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 47 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  Ejecutor Asociación de Desarrollo Comunitario "ADECO", "Evaluación Expost III Etapa Programa
         Nuestras Raíces, Tegucigalpa, March 2000.

  ESA Consultores. "Ex-Post Evaluation of the Honduras Social Investment Fund." (Ian Walker; Rafael
        el Cid; Fidel Ordoñez; and Florencia Rodríguez), September 1999.

  ESA Consultores, "Evaluación del Programa ''Nuestras Raíces" -- Etapa IV, January 2003.

  FHIS, "Listado de Cajas Rurales Formadas en el País, como resultado del Programa Nuestras Raíces
         en sus fases I, II y III, March 31, 2000.

  Haan, Hans Christiaan, "Honduras: FHIS and Post-Mitch Employment Creation,
         Tegucigalpa/Amsterdam, July 1999.

  PREM Notes, August 2001. "Hurricane Mitch--the gender effects of coping and crises." #57.

  Republic of Honduras, "Honduras ­ Fourth Social Investment Fund Project", Supplemental Letter,
          Credit Number C3118, August 27, 1998.

  SUM Consult GmbH, Wiesbaden, "Programa FHIS/KfW IV Evaluacion tecnico-financiera final:
         Informe de la misión de apoyo." Cooperación Financiera entre Honduras y Alemania,
         September 2002.

  Traa-Valarezo, Ximena, "Evaluación Social y Plan de Desarrollo Indígena. Honduras: FHIS-3,
         March 1998.

  World Bank, "Honduras - Fourth Social Investment Fund Project", Project Appraisal Document,
         No. 17778-HO, June 19, 1998.

  World Bank, "Honduras ­ Fourth Social Investment Fund Project", Development Credit Agreement,
         Credit Number C3118, August 27, 1998.

  World Bank, "Honduras ­ Fourth Social Investment Fund Project", Amendment, Credit Number
        C3118, January 7, 1999.

  World Bank, "Honduras FHIS IV Quality at Entry Assessment," January 21, 1999.

  World Bank, "Honduras ­ Fourth Social Investment Fund Project", Memorandum and
         Recommendation of the President of the IDA to the Executive Directors on a Proposed
         Supplemental Credit, Document No.-7350-HO, December 3, 1999.

  World Bank, "Honduras ­ Fourth Social Investment Fund Project", Agreement Amending
         Development Credit Agreement, Credit Number 3118-1-HO, December 23, 1999.

  World Bank, "Honduras - Third Social Investment Fund Project", Implementation Completion Report,
        No. 19589, June 29, 2000.




                                                  - 48 -

- 49 -

