Page  1
June 17, 1997
Mr. Juan Ferrara
Minister of Finance
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Re:
Japanese Grant for the preparation of a proposed 
Fourth Social Investment Fund Project
Trust Fund No. 027076
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of International Development Association (IDA) to indicate IDA’s 
agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan to make a grant in an amount not exceeding 
four hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($450,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Honduras (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient 
hereby confirms its request that IDA carries out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to 
this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and 
on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, 
and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. This Letter Agreement will not become 
effective until the date on which IDA has received evidence, satisfactory to IDA, that this Letter 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient, and is legally binding upon the 
Recipient in accordance with its terms.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By:
/s/ Juan Ferrera
Authorized Representative
Date:
  July 09, 1997
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
Page  2
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist the Recipient in the preparation of a proposed Fourth 
Social Investment Fund Project. The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is 
given are as follows:
(a)
Carrying out of studies, workshops and study tours, as the case may be, to: (i) assess the 
needs and priorities for social sector investment; (ii) update the social data and infrastructure 
mapping system to determine and monitor the needs mentioned in paragraph (i) herein; (iii) 
evaluate the role of the Honduran Social Investment Fund-FHIS (Fondo
Hondureño
de
Inversión
Social
)
vis a vis the central and local government entities and institutions; (iv) determine the 
mechanisms to improve the maintenance and sustainability of projects carried out by FHIS; (v) 
determine whether the role of FHIS should be expanded to promote the development of 
productive capacity at the community level and to carry out pilot projects which will determine 
and test different mechanisms to support microenterprises; (vi) improve FHIS’ management 
information systems; (vii) improve FHIS’ environmental assessment guidelines and the 
preparation of environmental projects; (viii) strengthen FHIS’ institutional capacity; (ix) improve 
FHIS’ performance indicators; (x) evaluate the impact of FHIS’ activities and to assess the 
beneficiaries’ opinion of such activities; (xi) assess the needs of special target groups, including 
indigenous groups, women and children; (xii) improve FHIS’ social assistance programs; (xiii) 
develop a coherent framework for a social safety net and to consolidate the various programs; 
and (xiv) assess the quality and accuracy of poverty data, develop a system to monitor poverty 
conditions and improve FHIS’ and other social programs targeting capabilities.
(b)
Provision of training to the Recipient, FHIS and other entities (to be selected by the 
Recipient in accordance with procedures and criteria acceptable to IDA) necessary to carry out 
the activities mentioned in (a) above.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the Activities.
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient shall cooperate with 
IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to 
evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by IDA as a result of claims against IDA in connection with the Activities, except those 
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
Page  3
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31, 1998.  After that date, IDA 
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA and shall be done according to 
IDA’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of 
the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent 
residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether or not 
the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the 
Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the 
following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) has made a loan with the guarantee 
of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development 
credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended.
8.
IDA is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary relationship 
with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by 
IDA pursuant to this Agreement.
