Page  1
January 7, 1999
Lic. Gabriela Nuñez de Reyes 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C., Honduras 
                        Re:
Credit No. 3118-HO 
(Fourth Social Investment Fund Project) Loan 
Administration Change Initiative Amendments to the 
Development Credit Agreement
Dear Minister Nuñez de Reyes
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated August 27, 1998 (the Credit 
Agreement) between Republic of Honduras (the Borrower) and the International 
Development Association (the Association).   With respect to our recent discussions 
regarding the inclusion of the Project in the Association’s Loan Administration Change 
Initiative (LACI), we are pleased to inform you that the Association has decided to 
include the Project in LACI and hereby agrees to the following amendments to the 
Credit Agreement.
1.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended as follows:
"Section 1.02.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement 
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"AMHON" means Asociación de Municipios de Honduras, the 
Association of Honduran Municipalities;
(b)
"Decree No. 12-90" means the Decree No. 12-90 of the Borrower, 
dated February 22, 1990, published in the Official Gazette (La Gaceta) on 
March 2, 1990;
(c)
"Decree No. 153-94" means the Decree No. 153-94 of the Borrower, 
dated November 4, 1994, published in the Official Gazette (La Gaceta) on 
December 24, 1994;
(d)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
"Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
"FHIS" means Fondo Hondureño de Inversión Social, the Borrower’s 
Social Investment Fund established pursuant to Decree 12-90, the duration of 
which was extended until March 2, 2002, by Decree No. 153-94;
(g)
"FHIS Operational Manual" means FHIS’s manual, dated August 1992 
as amended through June 16, 1997, setting forth the eligibility criteria and 
the rules and procedures for the preparation, selection, execution, 
supervision and monitoring of Subprojects, as the same may be amended from 
time to time by agreement between the Association and the Borrower;
(h)
"IHNFA" means Instituto Hondureño de la Niñéz y la Familia, the 
Borrower’s Institute for Children and the Family;
(i)
"Impact Evaluation Study" means the study referred to in Section 
3.08 of this Agreement, to assess the impact of FHIS and to improve the 
monitoring and evaluation system of FHIS’s activities, to be carried out under 
the 
terms of the Japanese Grant Agreement between the Bank (as administrator 
of 
grant funds provided by Japan) and the Borrower dated June 17, 1997 
(PHRD-TF027076);
(j)
"Monitoring Indicators" means the progress and performance 
Page  2
indicators set forth in the letter of even date with this Agreement between 
the Borrower and the Association;
(k)
"Pilot Municipality" means a municipality which meets the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Plan (as 
hereinafter defined) for participation under Part C.1 of the Project;
(l)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the plan referred to in 
Section 3.03 of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of the Association;
(m)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(o)
"Subproject" means a specific project consisting of one or more of 
the activities described in Parts A or C.1 of the Project which meets the 
criteria set forth in the FHIS Operational Manual and in the Project 
Implementation Plan;
(p)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the Agreement to be entered between 
Borrower and fHIS pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(q)
"Technical Assistance Plans" means the plans referred to in 
Section 3.06 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.".
2.
Section 2.02 is hereby amended to read as follows:
"Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and consultants’ services 
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.".
3.
Section 4.01 is hereby amended to read as follows: 
"Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall maintain a financial management 
system satisfactory to the Association, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures for, and in 
connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:   
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year: (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year 
as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such financial 
statements, records and accounts and a report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (C) an 
opinion by said auditors on the performance of FHIS 
operations under the FHIS Operational Manual and this 
Agreement; 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
Page  3
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;  
(ii)
retain until at least one year after the Association received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and  
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports submitted during each 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period, 
which:
(a)
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
4.
Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as set forth in the Annex to this Amendment 
Letter.
5.
Schedule 4 is hereby deleted.  This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original. Please confirm your agreement to the 
foregoing by signing on behalf of the Borrower in the space provided in the enclosed 
copy of this letter and returning it to us.  Upon receipt by the Association of the 
copy of this Amendment Letter countersigned by the authorized representative of the 
Borrower, these amendments will become effective as of the date first above written.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
/s/ Susana Campos Augusto 
    Acting Director 
    Central America Country Management Unit 
    Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
Page  4
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
/s/ Gabriela Nuñez de Reyes
    Authorized Representative
Date:  January 22, 1999
ANNEX
"SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
  Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Subprojects  
(a) 
Works and goods  
   23,470,000
93%
under Part A of the 
Project
(b) 
Works and goods 
    2,100,000
93%
under Part C.1 of the 
Project
(2)
Goods 
    1,120,000
100% of foreign expenditures; 
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost); and 89% 
of local expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services
and Training
(a) 
under Part A of 
    4,500,000
100%
the Project
(b) 
under Part C.1
      380,000
100%
of the Project
(c) 
under other Parts
    2,030,000
100%
of the Project
           TOTAL
   33,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants’ 
services) incurred for: (i) training materials; (ii) rental of training facilities; 
(iii) transportation expenses of trainees to the place where training is provided and 
subsistence expenses for such trainees; and (iv) study tours and internships in the 
Borrower's territory or abroad.  
Page  5
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR3,360,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures within the 
twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement but after January 1, 1998; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories 1 (b) and 3 (b) of the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the criteria and procedures 
for the carrying out of Subprojects under Part C.1 of the Project have been 
incorporated in the Project Implementation Plan in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit 
account, in its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  Payments out of 
the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each 
payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such 
time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, after the Association has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the 
amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the Association has determined, based 
on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000.  Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
Page  6
5.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.".
