Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3118-HO
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Social Investment Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 27, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3118-HO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 27, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 as amended through December 2, 
1997 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AMHON" means Asociación de Municipios de Honduras, the Association of 
Honduran Municipalities;
Page  2
(b)
"Decree No. 12-90" means the Decree No. 12-90 of the Borrower, dated 
February 22, 1990, published in the Official Gazette (La Gaceta) on March 2, 1990;
(c)
"Decree No. 153-94" means the Decree No. 153-94 of the Borrower, dated 
November 4, 1994, published in the Official Gazette (La Gaceta) on December 24, 1994;
(d)
"FHIS" means Fondo Hondureño de Inversión Social, the Borrower’s Social 
Investment Fund established pursuant to Decree 12-90, the duration of which was 
extended until March 2, 2002, by Decree No. 153-94;
(e)
"FHIS Operational Manual" means FHIS’s manual, dated August 1992 as 
amended through June 16, 1997, setting forth the eligibility criteria and the rules 
and procedures for the preparation, selection, execution, supervision and monitoring 
of Subprojects, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Association and the Borrower;
(f)
"IHNFA" means Instituto Hondureño de la Niñéz y la Familia, the 
Borrower’s Institute for Children and the Family;
(g)
"Impact Evaluation Study" means the study referred to in Section 3.08 of 
this Agreement, to assess the impact of FHIS and to improve the monitoring and 
evaluation system of FHIS’s activities, to be carried out under the terms of the 
Japanese Grant Agreement between the Bank (as administrator of grant funds provided by 
Japan) and the Borrower  dated June 17, 1997 (PHRD-TF027076);
(h)
"Monitoring Indicators" means the progress and performance indicators set 
forth in the letter of even date with this Agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association;
(i)
"Pilot Municipality" means a municipality which meets the eligibility 
criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Plan (as hereinafter defined) for 
participation under Part C.1 of the Project;
(j)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the plan referred to in Section 3.03 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of 
the Association;
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(l)
"Subproject" means a specific project consisting of one or more of the 
activities described in Parts A or C.1 of the Project which meets the criteria set 
forth in the FHIS Operational Manual and in the Project Implementation Plan;
(m)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the Agreement to be entered between Borrower 
and FHIS pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(n)
"Technical Assistance Plans" means the plans referred to in Section 3.06 
(c) (ii) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-three million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR33,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its central bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing on July 15, 2008 and ending on January 15, 
2038. Each installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2018 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall, under 
the Subsidiary Agreement, cause FHIS to carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, health, 
educational, environmental, archeological and managerial practices and according to 
the FHIS Operational Manual and shall take or cause to be taken all action, including 
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with FHIS, satisfactory to the 
Association, providing inter alia, for:
(i)
the provision to FHIS of the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required to enable FHIS to carry out the Project, 
including the transfer of the proceeds of the Credit on a grant 
basis;
(ii)
the obligation of FHIS to carry out the Project in accordance with 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the FHIS 
Operational Manual, in the Technical Assistance Plans and in the 
Project Implementation Plan, including the obligation to:
(A)
maintain records and separate accounts in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
(B)
carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (related 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project;
(C)
maintain a system, in a form satisfactory to the 
Association, of standard regionalized unit prices for goods 
and works established by FHIS for the purposes of contracts 
to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.5 of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and to change such prices in a 
form satisfactory to the Association;
(D)
to promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of  
the Project  or the Subprojects, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit, or the performance of its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement;
(E)
prepare the reports  and plans referred to in Section 3.06 
of this Agreement; and
(F)
enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Association, 
with the Borrower’s Ministries of Education, Health, 
Culture, Arts and Sports (Secretarías de Estado en los 
Despachos de Educación Pública, Salud Pública y Asistencia 
Social, y Cultura, Arte y Deportes) and with IHNFA and 
AMHON, for their participation  in the execution of the 
Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not change, assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall cause FHIS to prepare, under terms 
satisfactory to the Association, a project implementation plan describing the criteria 
and procedures for the Project implementation. 
Page  5
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall cause FHIS, until completion of the Project, 
to maintain an executive director and other key staff, including an environmental unit 
chief, with experience and qualifications shall be at all times acceptable to the 
Association and to consult with the Association with respect to the replacement of the 
executive director or key staff of FHIS prior to any such replacement.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article 9.06 (c) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, and furnish to the Association not later than six months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project; 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c) 
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association’s comments 
thereon.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 (a) (iii) of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, and shall cause FHIS, to:
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures, acceptable to the Association, to 
enable FHIS to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof in accordance with the 
Monitoring Indicators;
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, before the end of April of each year until the completion 
of the Project, beginning in April 1999, a report on the implementation of the Project 
during the preceding calendar year in which the report is furnished to the 
Association, each report to detail: (i) the financial and physical progress of the 
Project; (ii) FHIS’ institutional performance and achievements under the Project; and 
(iii) the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section; and
(c) 
furnish to the Association before the end of October of each year during 
the implementation of the Project, beginning in October 1998: (i)  a draft of the 
detailed Project operating plan and budget for the succeeding calendar year; and (ii) 
a proposed technical assistance plan, satisfactory to the Association, describing the 
technical assistance activities to be financed under the Project during the following 
calendar year.   The Borrower through FHIS shall, thereafter, carry out the Project in 
accordance with such technical assistance plan as approved by the Association.
Section 3.07.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall, and shall cause FHIS to, undertake annual 
reviews of Project implementation with the Association during the month of May of each 
year during Project implementation, beginning in 1999.  Such annual reviews shall 
focus on the information provided in the reports referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of 
this Agreement, as well as on the results of any other reports.  As part of each such 
review the Association may require the Borrower to prepare an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, to make adjustments in Project  implementation.  In 
such event, the Borrower shall not later than forty five days after the conclusion of 
each review furnish such plan to the Association and shall thereafter carry out or 
cause FHIS to carry out, such action plan in accordance with its terms. 
Section 3.08.  The Borrower shall cause FHIS to: (a)  not later than 45 days 
after the completion of the Impact Evaluation Study, prepare a plan of action based on 
such study and the Association’s comments thereon; and
(b)
implement such plan of action in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.09.  Without limitation to provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall provide assurances that all goods and works financed 
under Subprojects will be properly maintained in accordance with appropriate technical 
standards and procedures.
Section 3.10.  The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, Subprojects shall be promoted, identified, appraised, carried out and 
Page  6
monitored in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Project 
Implementation Plan and the FHIS Operational Manual.
Section 3.11.  Without limitation to its obligations under the General 
Conditions and under Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall provide 
FHIS, as and when requested, with the funds necessary to cover the investment and 
operating costs of Subprojects as well as the operating expenses of FHIS.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
satisfactory to the Association, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures for, and in connection with, the carrying out 
of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year; (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; (B) an 
opinion on such financial statements, records and accounts and a 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (C) 
an opinion by said auditors on the performance of FHIS operations 
under the FHIS Operational Manual and this Agreement; 
(iii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but not later 
than forty-five days after the end of the months of March, July 
and October of each fiscal year, a certified copy of the quarterly 
report produced by said auditors as part of the preparation of the 
annual auditing report described in paragraph (ii) above, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iv)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Page  7
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Decree No. 12-90 or Decree 153-94 or any provision thereof shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived as to affect materially and 
adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the ability of FHIS to perform any of 
its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.
(b)
FHIS shall have failed to comply with its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FHIS.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any of the events specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days after the notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.   The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower 
and FHIS;
(b)
that the Project Implementation Plan, has been issued by FHIS in 
accordance with the provision of Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and
(c)
that the environmental unit of FHIS has been staffed in accordance with 
the provision of Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date November 23, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03.  The obligations of the Borrower under Article III and IV of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretaría de Estado en el
Despacho de Finanzas
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
Honduras
Page  8
Cable address: 
Telex:
HACIENDA
1308
Tegucigalpa
FINANZAS HO
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Manuel Rosales Zelaya 
Honorary Witness
By /s/ Gabriela Nuñez 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Zafer Ecevit 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Subprojects  
(a) 
Works and goods  
23,470,000
93%
under Part A of  the 
Project
(b) 
Works and goods 
 2,100,000
93%
under Part C.1 of the 
Project
(2)
Goods 
 1,120,000
100% of foreign expenditures; 
100% of local expenditures 
Page  9
(ex-factory cost); 
and 89% 
of local expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally.
(3)
Consultants’ services
and Training
(a) 
under Part A of 
 4,500,000
100%
the Project
(b) 
under Part C.1
   380,000
100%
of the Project
(c) 
under other Parts
 2,030,000
100%
of the Project
           TOTAL
33,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants’ 
services) incurred for: (i) training materials; (ii) rental of training facilities; 
(iii) transportation expenses of trainees to the place where training is provided and 
subsistence expenses for such trainees; and (iv) study tours and internships in the 
Borrower's territory or abroad.  
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR3,360,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures within the 
twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement but after January 1, 1998; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories 1 (b) and 3 (b) of the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the criteria and procedures 
for the carrying out of Subprojects under Part C.1 of the Project have been 
incorporated in the Project Implementation Plan in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures for goods, works and consultants’ services 
under contracts costing less than the equivalent of:  (i) $25,000 for vehicles, 
computer equipment and major office equipment under Part D of the Project; (ii) 
$150,000 for goods and works (other than vehicles, equipment and supplies under Part D 
of the Project); (iii) $50,000 in the case of consulting firms; and (iv) $25,000 in 
the case of individual consultants.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase access among the poor segment 
of the Borrower’s population to priority small-scale social and economic 
infrastructure; (b) support and develop social assistance programs for disadvantaged 
groups of the Borrower’s population; and (c) contribute to the sustainability of 
FHIS-supported investments.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Page  10
Part A:
Subprojects 
1.
Carrying out of projects consisting of small social or economic infrastructure 
and capacity-building investments in areas such as water supply and  sanitation 
systems, education, cultural preservation, health and environmental protection.
2.
Special Programs Subprojects
(a) 
Carrying out of projects such as construction of shelters for street 
children, training of midwives, that address priority social needs for disadvantaged 
and underserved groups, including inter alia, women, street children, the elderly and 
the disabled. 
(b) 
Carrying out of projects attending the social and economic needs of poor 
indigenous communities in the Borrower’s territory such as rehabilitation and 
construction of rural roads and training on commercial and agricultural 
income-generating activities.
Part B: 
Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening 
Execution of a pilot program to assist communities and local governments in 
improving the planning, implementation and sustainability of FHIS-financed 
investments.
Part C: 
Pilot Program for Strengthening of Community and Rural Water Systems
1.
Carrying out of small Subprojects for strengthening community and rural water 
systems in Pilot Municipalities.
2.
Provision of technical assistance for the improvement of interinstitutional 
coordination in the water and sanitation sector.
Part D:
 Project Management
1.
Provision of technical assistance (including training), and equipment to enable 
FHIS to carry out the Project and to strengthen its policies, practices and 
operations.
2.
Provision of external auditing services.
3.
Provision of technical assistance for the purposes of carrying out regular 
beneficiary assessments and monitoring and evaluation activities of FHIS.   
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto (preference for domestically-manufactured goods) shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
Page  11
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Except as otherwise provided in Part C, works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
(c)
Procurement of all goods and works under Parts C.1 (a) and (b) above, 
shall be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association.
2.
International Shopping
Vehicles, computing equipment and other major office equipment estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$300,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis of international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods (other than vehicles, computing equipment and major office equipment) 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $75,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed  $16,900,000 equivalent, may be procured on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to 
a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work and who has the experience and resources to the contract successfully.
5.
Direct Contracting
Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of  $50,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $13,200,000 equivalent, and to be contracted in 
remote areas where the procedures referred to in paragraphs 1 (b) and 4 above are not 
feasible, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines; provided, however that the Association shall have 
approved the relevant standard unit prices in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 3.01 (b) (ii) (C) of the Agreement. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: 
(a)
each contract for goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or more to 
be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Parts B, C.1 (a) and C.2 of this Section;
(b)
each contract for works estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more, 
awarded pursuant to the provisions of Parts C.1 (b) of this Section;  and 
(c)
the first two contracts for works to be awarded pursuant to the 
Page  12
provisions of Part C.1 (b) of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency published by the Bank in August 
and January 1997 and revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Consultants’ services for tasks under Parts D.2 and D.3 shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for tasks under Parts A, B, C and D.1 of the Project, shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks under Parts A, B, C and D.1 that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
the carrying out Parts D.2 and D.3 of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract: (i) for the employment of consulting firms 
and individual consultants for the carrying out of Parts A and C.1 of the Project 
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent per contract or more; and (ii) for the employment 
of consulting firms for the carrying out of Parts B, C.2 and D.1 of the Project 
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent per contract or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants for the carrying out of Parts B, C.2 and D.1 of the Project estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only 
after the said approval shall have been given.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  13
Section III.
Special Provisions
1.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C. 1 (a)  and  
(b) of Section I of this Schedule:
(a)
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in accordance with 
criteria set forth in the bidding documents, and without taking into account, in the 
evaluation, the financial cost of foreign exchange components.
(b)
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be 
required to:
(i)
be registered in Honduras;
(ii)
have a representative in Honduras;
(iii)
be associated with Honduran suppliers or contractors; and
(iv)
certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran suppliers or 
contractors are allowed to participate in competitive bidding 
procedures under equal conditions with other bidders.
(c)
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing contract 
amounts.
2.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of 
this Schedule:
(a)
Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the selection 
process even if there is availability of Honduran consultants for the services being 
procured.
(b)
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with Honduran 
associations or to be associated with Honduran consulting firms as a condition for 
participating in any selection process.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $4,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  14
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
             (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Sections 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account for the Project, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the 
Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  15
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
