Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14004-SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
COMMUNITY NUTRITION PROJECT
APRIL 26, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
USSI = CFAF 580 (October 1994)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADMUR       Association for Urban and Rural Development
(Association pour le Developpement en  filieu Urbain et Rural)
AEP         Sanitation and Potable Water (Assainissement et Eau Potable)
AGETIP      Public works Executing Agency
(Agence d'Excution des Travaux d'Interet Public contre le Sous-Emploi)
BASICS      Basic Support for Institutionalizing Child Survival Project
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CNC         Comnunity Nutrition Center (Comit National de Concerrations Rurales, CVCR)
CPSP        Fund for Price Equalization and Stabilization
(Caisse de Perequation et de Stabilisation des Prix)
CRS         Catholic Relief services
CSA         Food Security Commission (Commissariat a la Secunte Alimentaire)
DHS         Demographic and Health Survev
DSSP        Division of Primary Health Care (division des soins de sante prirnaire)
ENDA        Environment and Development in Africa (Environnement et Developpement en Afnique)
EPS         Health Education Division (Division Education pour la Santi)
ESP         Priority Survey (Enqudte Sur les Priorites)
FONGS       Federation of Non-Governmental Organizations
(Feddration des Organisanons Non -Gouvernementales)
GIE         Small Economic Interest Groups (Groupement d'intdrdt economique)
GPF         Women's Promotion Groups (Groupements de Promonon Feminine)
GTZ         German Technical Cooperation
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IEC         Information, Education and Communication
ITA         Food Technology Institute (Institut de Technologie Alimentaire)
KAP         Knowledge, Attitudc, Practice
KIW         Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
M+E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MIC         Micro-entreprcneur
MIS         Management Information System
MOC         Local NGO supervisor (Maitre doeuvre communautaire)
MOH         Ministry of Health and Social Action
NWO         Non-Governmental Organization
NMD         Nutrition Management Division
ORSTOM    French Scientific Research Institute for Development and Cooperation
(Institut Fran,ais de Recherche Scientifique pour le Developpement en Cooperation)
ORT         Oral Rehydration Therapy
PNVA        National Agricultural Extension Program (Programme National de Vulgarisation Agricole)
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
PPNS        Health and Nutrition Project (Programme de Protection Nutritionnelle et Sanitaire)
SANAS       Senegal's Food and Applied Nutrition Service
(Service d'Alimentation et de Nutriiaon Appliqude au Scnegal)
SDA         Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SM          Social Mobilization
SOE         Statement of Expenses
SONES       National Water Company of Senegal
(Societi Nationale des Eaux du Sin'gal)
TA          Technical Assistance
UNDP        United National Development Program
UNICEF      United Nations Children Fund
UNFPA       United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
WFP         World Food Program
WHO         World Health Organization
ZOPP        Objectives-oriented project planning (Ziel-orientierte Projekt-Pkamng)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
COMMUNITY NUTRITION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
Credit and Project Summary ..i.iii.........................................................)
1. INTRODUCTION .1
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT .1
A. Background  . ..
B. Economic Situation of Vulnerable Groups                  .           .                       2
C. Nutrition and Food Security.                                                                 2
D. Government Policies and Actions and the Bank's Experience..                                  5
E. Rationale for IDA Involvement..                                                              7
Ill. THE PROPOSED PROJECT.                                                                                     8
A. Project Objective and Design.                                                                8
B. Project Description .                                                                        9
C. Status of Project Preparation .19
D. Project Costs and Financing .22
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .23
A. Project Management .23
B. Project Monitoring and Evaluation .25
C. Procurement .26
D. Disbursement                                                                                28
E. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting                                                          29
F. Supervision Plan                                                                            30
G. Environmental Impact .30
H. Project Objective Categories .30
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS .30
A. Benefits .30
B. Risks .31
VI.  AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION                                                                32
This report is based on the findings of an appraial mission carried out in Senegal in January/February 1995, consisting of Mr. Lalie Pean
(Sr. Project Officer, mission leader), Mr. Enmmerich Schebeck (Departmental Project Advisor), Ms. Tonia Marek (Nutritionist), Ms.
Adnana De Leva (Economist), Mr. Richard Seifinan (Nutritionist), Mr. Uwe Kracht (Consultant, United Nations), Mr. Gonzalo Ribt-
Dieguez (Chief Desk Officer, WFP/Rome), Mr. Ibrahim Sharifa (Director WFP/Senegal), Mr. Paul Crowley (Consultant, Food
Tecbnologist) Mr. Manfred Dittmar (Director, Africa, KfW), Mr. Christophe Twerenbold (Econoniist, KfW), Ms. Lioba Wenigautner
(Nutritionist/Consultant, KfW), Mr. Magaue Wade (Director General, AGETIP), Mr. Ibnou Gaye (Director of Development, AGETIP).
Ma Judith McOuire (PHN) is the Lad Advisor. Ms. Maryse Pierre-Louis (Sr. PHN Specialist) and Mr. Bemard Abei16 (Sr. Procuremat
Specialist) are the peer reviewes. Mr. Jea-Louis Sarbib is the Departmet Director. Mr. Ok Pannenborg (Chief, Population and Hum
Resources Division), and Mr. Alberto Harth (Chief, Infrastrucue Division) share responsibility for the project Technical support wa
provided by Ma. Song Li.



ANNEXES
Paze
1.    Lessons from nutrition projects in Senegal and other countries          34
II.    Community nutrition program                                            36
III.   Targeting                                                              45
IV.   Water program                                                           48
V.    Rural household food security (Terms of Reference)                      56
VI.   Social Mobilization and Information, Education, and Communication (IEC)  58
VII.   Training                                                               65
VIII.  Momntoring and evaluation                                              69
LX.   Detailed cost tables                                                    82
X.    Disbursements Profile                                                   90
XI.   Supervision plan                                                        91
XII.  Project implementation structure                                        92
XIII.  List of documents in project files                                     93
Map: IBRD 26962



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
COMMUNITY NUTRITION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Senegal
Beneficiaries:    1.2 mnillion persons for the nutrition and water programs
Credit Amount:    SDR 11.7 million (US$18.2 million equivalent)
Staff of MOH, SONES, AGETIP, and municipalities
Terms:            Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project           The project's development objectives are to (a) halt a fuirther deterioration in the
Objectives:       nutritional status of the most vulnerable groups (malnourished children under 3
years of age and pregnant and nursing mothers) in targeted poor urban
neighborhoods; (b) provide potable water to unserviced neighborhoods of the
nutrition program; and (c) enhance household food security in poor rural and urban
areas during critical periods of vulnerability. Its implementation objectives are to
(a) demonstrate the feasibility of targeted, efficient and cost-effective delivery of
community nutrition interventions; and (b) execute a poverty-oriented program
through a privately operated agency.
Project           The project consists of three major components: (a) a nutrition program,
Description:      consisting of Information, Education and Communication (IEC) interlocutors,
supported by supplementary feeding for the target population in urban areas and a
small fund for research and development; (b) a water program in the targeted
neighborhoods of the nutrition program; and (c) a pilot rural household food
security program. As an integral part of these components, there will be (i) a
package of social mobilization and IEC, (ii) a package of managerial and
technical assistance and training to build local capacity for nutrition/health
services delivery; and (iii) a management information system for monitoring and
evaluation, supported by systematic client consultation throughout project execution
to ensure necessary program adjustments reflecting participants' views.
Project          The project will have two main benefits. Fir  the immediate impact of the
Benefits:    nutrition program is intended to halt a further deterioration in the nutritional status of the
most vulnerable groups in the poorest urban areas, estimated at a total target population of
469,000 (about 230,000 malnourished children under 3 and 120,000 nursing and pregnant
women receiving food as well as growth-monitoring and IEC services, and 119,000
mothers and children receiving only growth-monitoring and [EC services). The project's
nutrition education activities should set in motion behavioral changes and adoption of
better child-feeding practices, leading to long-lasting nutritional improvement in children
under 3. Through the water program increased access to safe drinking water should
reduce the incidence of diarrhea and water-borne diseases affecting the nutritional status of
174,000 residents in the targeted neighborhoods for the first year of operation, and
522,000 beneficiaries for the subsequent years, totaling 696,000 over the life of the project
for this program. Thus, about 1.2 mullion people will benefit from both programs. As
demnonstrated during the pilot phase in neighborhoods where the Community Nutrition
Center is close to a health facility, the proposed project will also lead to an increased
demand for and use of health services. An additional benefit of the household food
security and water programs will be the provision of development-oriented infrastructure



ii
in targeted rural and urban areas. Second, the project will establish for the first time a
local capacity to deliver community-managed nutrition services with private sector
efficiency, both in terms of management and administrative cost containment. It will also
contribute to the capacity building of NGOs by providing training in the supervision of
community nutrition centers and IEC methods to pre-selected local NGOs. Finally, closer
collaboration between NGOs and public health services will improve the delivery of social
programs geared to the most vulnerable households and the capacity-building of local
groups to manage their social/poverty problems.
Project Risks: As the nutrition program will be carried out in the urban low-income areas and among
some of its poorest people, many of them illiterate and innumerate, its implementation will
not be easy. The project will involvefive specific risks. The first concems the production
of the food supplement, since the enterprise selected by WFP for production enjoys a
virtual monopoly. The second risk is linked to the strong coordination required among the
many stakeholders associated with project implementation, which could impose a logistical
problem that might undernine the private agency's (AGETIP) efforts to meet project
objectives efficiently and effectively. The third risk is that implementation might be
delayed by community mobilization, organization and training shortfalls. The fourth risk
is that the necessary nutrition-health coordination arrangements between AGETIP and the
Ministry of Health fall short of expectations. Finally, the project's administrative costs
might be higher than estimated, thus jeopardizing the program's sustainability.
To reduce the risk related to the sole source of food production, WFP will attempt
to identify through local competitive bidding alternative production sources during the first
year of operation. To mitigate implementation risks, the project will be implemented on the
basis of a detailed Manual of Procedures and under a strictly organized schedule of
supervision procedures, thus ensuring attention to quality issues by all implementing
bodies. In addition, starting from the pilot phase, the program will expand towards full
coverage only after organizational, management, and technical program details have been
sufficiently tested and adjusted to account for absorptive capacity conditions in the field.
The National Commission for the Fight Against Malnutrition, created at the Presidency in
June 1994, constitutes the strongest possible Government commitment in supporting
AGETIP's community mobilization efforts. Training and in-service training of large
numbers of community private entrepreneurs and beneficiaries are recognized as key
elements for project success. Moreover, improved coordination with the health system will
be ensured by clearly defined contractual arrangements between AGETIP and the Ministry
of Health. Finally, AGETIP's contract management capabilities, supported by its strong
management information system, have proven to be guarantor for cost containment and
will ensure sustainability. Through this approach to social services provision, the
traditional role of Govemment as a provider of public services will be replaced by one in
which the Govenmment provides those services in terms of planning, programming and
budgeting, but leaves delivery to the more efficient and cost-effective agents of the private
sector.
Environmental No environmental risks are foreseen.
Risks:
Poverty       Program of targeted interventions to halt a further deterioration in the nutritional
Category:    status of the most vulnerable groups in specific poor neighborhoods selected on the
basis of a poverty assessment, to reduce their food insecurity, and to generate employment
and income for community groups through small-scale activities.
Economic Rate Not applicable.
of Return



Lo0o317    lelblull UU  EA ulJy LI1JU caL vtlwUU
iii
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(Net of taxes and duties)
Local      Foreign        Total
-(in  USS million)-
1. Nutrition Program                            14.6         0.7           15.3
2. Water Program                                 0.6         2.2            2.8
3. Rural Household Food Security                 1.1         0.1            1.2
4. Social Mobilization and EEC                   1.3         0.3            1.6
5. Training                                      1.1         0.4            1.5
6. Monitoring and Evaluation                     0.8         0.7             1.5
7. AGETIP Management                             0.7         0.3            1.0
8. Pilot Operations and Project Preparation      0.4         0.1            0.5
Total Base Costs                            20.6         4.8            25.4
Physical Contingencies                       0.3         0.2            0.5
Price Contingencies                          2.0         0.1             2.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         22.9         5.1            28.0
FINANCING PLAN
(in USS million)
IDA                   18.2
WFP                    5.2
KfW                    3.0
Govermment             1.6
TOTAL             28.0
Estimated IDA Credit Disbursements
(in USS million)
IDA Fiscal Year
1996        1997         1998       1999
Annual                    3.6         5.6          5.4        3.6
Cumulative                3.6         9.2         14.6        18.2



iv
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
COMMUNITY NUTRITION PROJECT
SOCIO-ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Most          Same Region/
Recent         Income Group           Next Higher
Unit of        Estimate /I    sub-Sah.      Lower-       Income
Measure           (mre)          Africa     Income         Group
Total Population (mre u 1992)                    thousands           7,841         546,390     942,547      477.960
Urban                                              %                40.8           29.5         57          71.7
Income Indicators
GNP per capita (mre =1994)                        USS               470             -            -
Social Indicators
Public Expenditures on Basic Social Services    % of GDP             -              -           -
Gross Enrollment Ratio:                      % school age group
Primary    Total                                                   59             66           -           107
Male                                                      70             79           -
Female                                                   49              62          -
Secondary: Total                                                   16              -           -            -
F;emale                                                  I1              -           -             -
Mortality                                   per 000 live births
Infant Mortality Rate                                            a8             99          45            40
Undwr-5 Mortality Rate                                          105.8           169         59            51
Chronic child malnutrition (-5 years old)                           29              -           -
Life Expectancy                                  years
Overall                                                          49             52          68            69
Female advantage                                                  2             3.4         8.4           6.3
Total Fertility Rate                        births per woman        5.9            6.1         3.1          2.9
/1 Except for GNP/capita mrs, all other mres are for the periods 1987-92. The malnutrition rates are obtained from the 1991 Priority Survey.
Souans Social Indicators of Development, 1994, The World Bank, 1994.
World Development Report 1993: Investing in Heatth, the World Bank, 1993.



SENEGAL
COMMUNITY NUTRITION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Govemrnment of Senegal has requested IDA's assistance in financing a conununity
nutrition project. The principal objectives of the proposed project are to halt a further deterioration
in the nutritional status of the most vulnerable groups in poor urban neighborhoods, provide those
households with potable water, and enhance food security in targeted poor urban and rural areas
during critical periods of vulnerability.
1.02     The proposed project will be IDA's first free-standing nutrition project in Senegal and
the first project of this kind in sub-Sahara Africa. It is not an emergency intervention, but an
experimental one that attempts to demonstrate an innovative approach, i.e., the delivery of targeted
and cost-effective nutrition interventions, designed in close collaboration with all stakeholders and
executed not by the Government but by agents of the private sector. Total project costs are estimated
at about US$28.0 mnillion equivalent, net of taxes and duties, of which IDA would finance about
USS18.2 million. The Gernan Government (KfW) would finance in parallel about US$3.0 million
equivalent, WFP would finance in parallel USS5.2 million, and the Government of Senegal would
contribute USS1.6 million equivalent.
11. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Background
2.01      Senegal is a low income country with a population of 7.8 million, growing at ?.7% per
year, with an average per capita income of US$470 distributed unequally. Although better off than
some of its Sahelian neighbors, Senegal faces many similar constraints, such as dry arid land, low
rainfall, rapid population growth, dependence on one agricultural commodity, groundnuts, that
accounts for 60% of farm cash income, and economic stagnation. It ranks 150 out of 173 countries
on the poverty index developed in the 1993 Human Development Report by UNDP. Senegal is,
however, more urbanized than its neighbors (40% of the population). The health and education
status of the population improved over the past decade, but primary enrollment is starting to
decrease. However, life expectancy is only 49 years of age; children under five in urban areas suffer
a chronic malnutrition rate of 23%; onchocerciasis in rural areas is prevalent. Widescale malaria,
diarrhea, and respiratory diseases indicate that Senegal's living standards remain below those of other
lower-middle income countries.
2.02      Over the past decade, dramatic declines in formal sector activity have combined with
longer-term trends (population growth, land degradation, declining world commodity prices) to
plunge the country into a severe and prolonged economic recession. The Government launched
adjustment and stabilization programs in the early 1980s, resulting in the partial liberaiiztion of
agriculture, fiscal stabilization through austere expenditure contraction, and financial reform. But,
this internal adjustment was insufficient to improve the competitiveness of the economy and achieve
the type of economic growth that would have a large impact on poverty. The January 1994
devaluation of the CFA franc offered an opportunity to regain competitiveness and to reverse
economic performance by improving rural incomes through higher prices for the most important



2
revenue source of the poor (groundnuts) and by encouraging other export-oriented industries, such as
fishing, tourism, agro-processing, and small manufacturing.
B. Economic Situation of Vulnerable Groups
2.03      The economic crisis has particularly affected vulnerable groups in Senegal. While the
devaluation is expected to promote long-term economic growth in Senegal, it has led to a
deterioration of incomes and food access for vulnerable groups in the short term. For example, food
expenditures, which represent 70% of the household budget of the poor increased nearly 40 percent
during 1994. The urban poor are particularly affected by increases in the prices of irnported food.
In early 1994, the Government of Senegal introduced accompanying measures aimed at passing the
benefits of the parity change on to rural producers; limiting the wage bill; reducing regressive levels
of taxation, while balancing fiscal and credit measures to control inflation; and improving the
availability of social services in health and education by increasing budgetary appropriations to these
sectors. In the short term, temporary measures to minimize increases in the prices of certain basic
food and non-food goods (bread, rice, edible oils, kerosene, medicines, and basic health care) were
adopted. The Bank-financed 1992 household priority survey found that 33% of the entire
population, about 2.4 million individuals, did not spend enough money on food to assure a minimum
daily caloric intake of 2,400 calories per adult equivalent. Rural poverty (86% of total) far exceeds
urban poverty. Yet, poverty in urban areas is intensifying, as highlighted by the fact that Dakar,
with over one-fifth of the total population, houses 12% of the total poor. Poor households in Dakar
have on average 12 persons, more than half of whom are children and elderly; nearly half of the
heads of these households have more than one wife, two out of three households use some type of
standpipe to access water, four out of five heads of households have no education, and less than 10%
have any assets (land, hoe, carts): Despite better average living conditions in urban areas, a
substantial number of poor live in squatter areas in peri-urban Dakar, which serves as a magnet for
the handicapped, orphans, and destitute who seek services, special care or income from begging.
Increasing migration to urban areas is contributing to the problems of these squatter neighborhoods
which have poor or nonexistent sanitation, house up to eight people in a room measuring less than
two square meters, lack water or electricity, and are characterized by housing made of discarded
metal and cardboard. These living conditions are breeding grounds for disease.
2.04      To compensate for the hardships of the poorest population groups, particularly in urban
areas, resulting from declining purchasing power, the Government plans to provide direct assistance
to certain vulnerable groups by facilitating the establishment of family- or community-oriented
projects aimed at halting further deterioration of already high malnutrition rates. It is in this vein that
the Presidency created a National Commission for the Fight Against Malnutrition and requested
IDA's support. The proposed project, which will complement other ongoing employment/food
security efforts, such as a food-for-work project managed by the Public Works Executing Agency
(AGETiP) and supported by food from the World Food Program (WFP), is a response to this
request. Yet, the proposed project also presents a challenge and an opportunity to lay the basis for a
long-term program to address the country's entrenched nutrition problems, an objective towards
which the proposed project hopes to contribute.
C. Nutrition and Food Security
2.05      The main nutrition problem and the effect of food insecurity in Senegal remains chronic
protein-calorie malnutrition, which results in visible stunting and wasting of children. Average levels
of caloric intake have been barely adequate in both rural and urban areas for many years. All urban
zones in Senegal show caloric inadequacy, estimated to be 80% of normal consumption below which



3
households are considered in a state of nutritional risk. Throughout Senegal, but particularly in the
urban areas, rice consunption has become an important part of the cereal diet. In urban areas, more
than 98% of noon meals, 50% of evening meals, and 20-50% of morning meals use rice as the staple.
The phasing-out of subsidies for rice is likely to cause particular hardship for low-income groups,
particularly because in the short-run, the supply response is not expected to provide large stocks of
low-cost coarse grains to substitute for the more expensive rice. This food availability and access
problem is undoubtedly most acute among urban poor households, who are mainly employed in the
service sector or in petty trade. They are, therefore, not likely to realize any compensatory
production benefits in the short run, and have, therefore, confronted significant loss of purchasing
power parity. Unless the urban poor households are able to reduce their non-food expenditures by
the amount of real income loss, and transfer these amounts to food expenditures, the result will be
further nutritional deterioration.
2.06      Rural Senegalese confront a somewhat different problem. They annually face a hungry
period (June-September) prior to the harvest. Villagers who ordinarily eat three meals a day reduce
the number of meals to two at the end of the dry season (Benefice and Simondon, 1993). Even in
rice-producing areas, where rice constitutes 48% of the total energy intake in January (during the
harvest period), villagers purchase 50% or more of their energy requirements, i.e., 50% in January
rising to 61% in June (Benefice and Simondon, 1993). This seasonal availability problem spills over
into the major peri-urban poverty areas as well.
2.07      Infant malnutrition rates have remained relatively constant during the past decade. The
1992 Priority survey found that 29% of children under five years of age were chronically
malnourished, with rural child malnutrition estimated at about 34% and urban at 23%. Malnutrition
begins before birth, and in Senegal about 10% of children are low birthweight babies. Iron
deficiency anemia is a severe public health problem with 63% of children estimated to be anemic.
Significant regional and seasonal vitamin A deficiency was found among children 1-5 years of age
(7.4%) in a survey completed in 1993 (Rankins). Iodine deficiency is also considered a problem, but
mainly in inland areas.
2.08      The urban malnutrition problem is growing more severe because the urban population is
growing much faster (4.0% per year in Dakar) than the national growth rate of 2.7%. Urban chronic
child malnutrition at 23% is more pronounced in Dakar than in other cities of West Africa (22% in
Accra, 18% in Conakry, and 11% in Abidjan). Large differences in malnutrition rates have been
found depending on the socio-economic profile of the community. For instance in the poor area of
Guediawaye the proportion of children with chronic malnutrition is 1.6 times higher than in Medina
(Guiro, June 1994). Even in the same suburb, there are great disparities, depending mainly on
whether the area is a squatter or a planned area. In the Pikine area, chronic malnutrition rates were
higher in the squatter areas of Yeumbel and Medina Gounass than in the planned neighborhoods of
Pikine Extension and Pikine Ancien (Guiro, 1994).
2.09      In addition to poverty, often being both one of the causes and one of the consequences of
child malnutrition, food insecurity, lack of knowledge of good feeding practices, endemic diseases,
inadequacy of potable water, and poor sanitation remain significant factors towards child
malnutrition. They are discussed individually below.
a) Food insecurity: In the past, supplies of coarse grains and rice on a national level did not
translate into adequate food for families, principally because of weaknesses in Senegal's food
distribution system and limited access to income. Even in years of normal rainfall with
adequate production and adequate imports of rice, a substantial portion of the population



4
was chronically food insecure. With the establishment of a more stable food structure and
other measures taken under the Bank's proposed Agriculture Sectoral Adjustment Lending,
stable food availability - and therefore one crucial aspect of the food security situation in
general - should improve, particularly for the poor. Nonetheless, many households still
have inadequate income or other resources to obtain needed levels of appropriate foods on a
regular basis. The evidence suggests a strong positive correlation between low-income
families and high levels of stunting and other forms of malnutrition in children under five,
and poor nutritional status of women of reproductive age. The 1992-93 Demographic and
Health Survey (DHS) showed that 15% of women of reproductive age had a low Body Mass
Index (less than 18.5 kg/m2), indicating chronic energy deficiency in this cohort, which is
often a good marker of household food insecurity. Simply put, household income remains
one of the main factors affecting food insecurity in Senegal.
b) Feeding practices: With regard to poor feeding practices, both the 1986 DHS and a more
recent study in Guediawaye confirm that this is a critical area in infant feeding. In Senegal
only 6% of children under three months are exclusively breastfed, and in Guediawaye 40%
of the children began receiving complementary feeding earlier than four months (the
recommendation is to exclusively breastfeed a child up to four months). In addition, children
over four to six months usually require complementary feeding, but the 1986 DHS survey
(latest data available) found that a large percentage (29%) received only breastnilk or
breastmilk plus water or low nutrition liquids. The low caloric density of weaning food is
also a problem: the most common weaning food is millet porridge (rouye). A child being
weaned does not eat more than 200 mi of the porridge per meal and thus absorbs only 70
calories and two grams of proteins at each seating, which is largely insufficient, especially
since a child only has two to three meals a day (the ideal is five meals a day).
c) Endemic diseases: A sick child has a 30% higher chance of being underweight than a
healthy child. The most critical age in terms of nutritional status is between 12 and 23
months when children in Senegal are abruptly stopped being breastfed. By the age of 20
months, about one in three children suffers from insufficient weight. Health problems
contribute in part to the deficiency in weight, diarrhea being one of the major problems
among small children. The prevalence of diarrhea among young infants is high and increases
rapidly among infants under nine months of age. In the 1986 DHS survey, it was found that
one in two Senegalese children under 24 months had diarrhea in the two weeks preceding the
survey. This level is the highest among nine sub-Saharan countries where similar data were
collected. Malaria, acute respiratory illnesses, parasite-related diseases, and measles are
widespread childhood illnesses. Other major diseases found in Senegal have a direct or
indirect impact on the care for children. Of particular note is maternal anemia, and
onchocerciasis which alone affects some 57,000 people (or 1 in 130 Senegalese).
d) Water and Sanitation: The inadequacy of potable water and the lack of sanitary services
are major causes of morbidity in the poor neighborhoods of the peri-urban areas. Among the
most widespread illnesses are diarrhea, intestinal parasites, amoebiasis, typhoid and
conjunctivitis. A significant part of the population in the neighborhoods of the proposed
Community Nutrition Project (20% in Dakar and over 30% in the secondary towns) get their
water from traditional wells which exploit shallow pools of water polluted by waste water.
In the neighborhoods without drinking water networks, the conditions of water storage and
informal resale add considerably to water pollution for the populations not served by the
network.



5
D. Government Policies and Actions and the Bank's Experience
Policies
2.10      In an effort to increase cereal self-sufficiency, the Governnent has pursued a policy
supporting domestic rice production. Producers in the North River regions have benefitted from
heavy Government investment in irrigated perimeters. For these producers, inputs and water rates
were highly subsidized. The poorer region of Casamance benefitted less (less marketing of rice and
competition from fraudulent rice imports from the Gambia) from Government support in the
development of irrigated perimeters for rice production. As a result of these policies, until January
1994, consumers paid a high price for the protected local rice. However, since June 1994, the
Government abandoned its rice production strategy within the context of the preparation of the
proposed Agriculture Sector Adjustment Lending. Although the expansion of irrigated rice is
possible, the abandonment of the protectionist measures will doubtlessly slow down the artificial
expansion of paddy rice production in the north river valley. As a result, the likelihood of Senegal
achieving rice self-sufficiency in the near future is considered very slim. However, the practice of
artificial flooding of the Senegal River Valley, which was begun last year, has had a beneficial effect
by enabling large flood recession areas to be planted with millet, which is increasingly becoming a
substitute for rice among poor households. Further, it is Government policy, supported by the Bank,
to improve the effectiveness of research and extension services for women farmers. This policy is
being implemented through a series of agreed-upon measures and is supported by the National
Agricultural Extension Program (PNVA) (Cr. 2108-SN).
2.11      A coherent five-year National Nutrition Program (1991-1996) was announced in the
early 1990s, but little has materialized. Ongoing efforts to identify and treat malnutrition rely mainly
on health education by health post personnel. This not only places an extra burden on already
overworked staff, but is not the most effective way of dealing with malnutrition among the poor as
they are the least likely to seek modem medical care.
2.12      The Food Security Commission (CSA) is responsible for food security issues. It
maintains a minimal stock of cereals in storage facilities throughout the country and seeks to stabilize
market prices for cereals. The CSA monitors food security (stocks and prices) on a pilot basis in
four zones identified as food insecure and monitors food prices nationwide. The pilot zones, located
in the northem part of Senegal, have been identified based on levels of cereal deficits and rainfall
pattems rather than on indicators of net income. Recent evidence suggests that in poor harvest years,
farmers in the more fertile zones could actually be more vulnerable to malnutrition and food
insecurity because of lack of off-farm sources of income.
Actions
2.13      The Government incorporated nutrition under the USAID-financed Health and Nutrition
Project (PPNS) which lasted from 1973-88. This program, carried out with the assistance of Catholic
Relief Services, established about 400 centers around the nation providing pre- and post-natal visits,
growth monitoring and food supplements to children under five. As of 1984, 10.3% of children under age
three were covered by these supplemental programs, which were not targeted either by season or by
qualifying rural regions. In fact, distribution depended on the location of the health center. Had the
program been better targeted to lower-income children, the impact (and cost-effectiveness) might have been
greater. An additional problem revealed by project evaluations was that only 6-11% of the calories were
actually consumed by the beneficiaries. Take-home rations lasted fifteen days instead of the whole month:
in 1981 each child received 5.53 kg per month, while in 1982 each child received only 3.84 kg, comnpared
to a theoretical objective of 7.5 kg (Echenber et. al., 1984). In 1987, supplemental food was discontinued,



6
thus leaving only growth monitoring in the PPNS. Many mothers stopped participating because of the high
opportunity cost of their time, especially since the small fee mothers had to pay to the PPNS (about
$0.67/mooth) was mandatory. The drop in attendance might also have been due to the quality of health
services provided by the health centers, which was inadequate to provide an incentive for mothers to bring,
their children. The PPNS has not been replaced by a similar program, thus leaving a gap in the detection
and prevention of malnutrition on a national basis.
2.14      The Ministry of Health and Social Action (MOH) recommended that the PPNS be restructured
by redefining the role of the mothers' committee vis-a-vis the health committee. It also introduced the idea
that growth monitoring should be decentralized to the community and that nutrition activities be carried out
by women groups (Diene, 1989), but no follow-up took place.
2.15      The MOH has been able to achieve a 37% vaccination coverage among children less than one
year old, and 55% for children between 12 and 23 months old. Despite this relatively low coverage, it
seems that a large part of the population in the target areas ask advice from health personnel, as shown by
the beneficiary assessment carried out during preparation of this project. But health service delivery is
generally weak, as health centers/posts tend to be understaffed and underequipped. A study undertaken
during project preparation (Sal, 1994) concluded that among the 10 health posts visited in five of the target
areas, only one could assure satisfactory delivery of curative, preventive and educational services and offer
nutrition rehabilitation facilities; two had almost no activities, and several among the others did not even
have a weighing scale.
IDA's Experience in Senegal
2.16      IDA has been involved in both the health and infrastructure sectors in Senegal. In health, IDA
prepared a nutrition project in the late 1970s, but the project was dropped for a rural health project, which
has been satisfactorily completed (PCR Report No. 12319). The ongoing human resources project
supports the extension of primary health care services in three regions through the construction/renovation
of health posts, the training of medical and paramedical personnel, the decentralization of health planning
and management, and a small nutrition sub-component in the Maternal and Child Health component. Ia
infrastructure, IDA's involvement includes four urban projects; two are complete, one ongoing and another
under preparation.
2.17      In addition, IDA has supported two Public Works and Employment Projects in promoting the
delivery of public services through simplified contracting procedures. The first project was successfully
completed in September 1993 and the second is in its second year of implementation. To help mitigate the
potentially negative effects of the country's macro-economic adjustment program, particularly on youth and
the urban poor, the first Public Works and Employment Project (Cr. 2075-SE) was approved in December
1989: (i) to create temporary new employment in urban areas as rapidly as possible; (ii) to improve
individual skills of those employed under the project and the competitiveness of the firms that would carry
out works, so as to develop their capacity to respond to increased opportunities for sustained employment
after project completion; (iii) to demonstrate the feasibility of labor-intensive projects and test the
procedures that would enable the public sector to commission such projects; and (iv) to undertake sub-
projects that are economically and socially useful. Key associated objectives were to maximize the benefits
of implementation methodologies that feature low cost, high visibility and conspicuous impact; use
transparent but expeditious and flexible procedures for sub-project proposals, appraisal, contracting and
disbursements; and provide sustainable technical and managerial assistance.



7
2.18      A special agency with private legal status, the Agence d'XEcution des Travaux d'Interet
Public contre le Sous-Emploi (AGETIP), was created to implement the project. AGETIP as an
NGO is an independent institution with a Board consisting of a Director from the private sector and
representatives from the National Council of Employers of Senegal, the Union of Construction and
Public Works Workers, and the Association of Mayors of Senegal. The director of AGETIP is
assisted by technical and financial directors and an internal auditor. Administrative costs have been
kept below 5% of the total program amount. Project management is govemed by a Manual of
Procedures, which is an integral part of the Convention signed with the Govenmment of Senegal.
2.19      AGETIP has successfully met many of its objectives. In its first three years, AGETIP
created 11,103 temporary jobs through public works execution with an average duration of 30 days
each. Seventy-eight enterprises won contracts to execute 119 sub-projects, including 15 youth
groups (103 youth groups had in fact been pre-qualified). The AGETIP agency has successfully
addressed poverty and household food security problems, particularly in the cities of Kaolack and
Saint Louis, through food for work initiatives supported by the World Food Programme (WFP). It
has set up easy and transparent bidding procedures which facilitated the participation of a large
number of small- and medium-scale enterprises in the program, who respected the agreed-upon time
framework for the execution of works. Moreover, the project disbursement profiles indicate that
AGETIP has demonstrated an absorptive capacity greater than the average IDA-financed project.
Most important, AGETIP has shown how managerial autonomy and private sector orientation lead to
strong results, as indicated in bidding and procurement procedures - AGETIP completes the process
in two months, while the public administration takes six months, and at lower cost than force
account.
2.20      Lessons learned from the first AGETEP project indicate that (i) in the appraisal of social
sub-projects, quantifiable indicators be used to rank them; (ii) a strong covenant be included in the
Development Credit Agreement to link the review of sub-project batches to the disbursement of
counterpart funding; (iii) training for contractors should be available upon credit effectiveness; (iv) a
grassroots participation program be an essential part of the project; and (v) a phased approach be
adopted.
E. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.21      The objectives of the proposed project are fully in accordance with the development
strategy of the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Senegal, presented to the Board
on February 16, 1995. The proposed Community Nutrition Project is considered as one of the key
projects in meeting these objectives. IDA's strategy to assist Senegal is to achieve sustainable
economic growth with equity and targeted poverty reduction. Its central focus is: (a) to promote
competitiveness in order to make the economy more responsive and to create more opportunities for
the private sector; (b) to complete structural reforms in agriculture; and (c) to deliver essential
services efficiently and effectively. Moreover, a central aspect of the Bank's partnership with
Senegal is the strengthening of the quality of the dialogue with Government and civil society to
enhance participation and to facilitate internalization and ownership. IDA's strategy rests on the
approach developed in the 1990 World Development Report, which is based on a two-pronged
approach: (i) increasing economic growth and incomes mainly through labor-intensive methods and
(ii) improving access to basic social services. A complement to this approach is assuring adequate
social safety nets for the truly vulnerable (pregnant and nursing women and children below the age of
three years). A key element in this strategy is the strengthening of anti-poverty programs,
particularly those which contain a safety net for the poor that promote human resource development
and increased access to social services. IDA's main nutrition objective is to assist the Government in



8
adopting strategies and cost-effective programs to deal with the malnutrition problems of the most
vulnerable groups. While considerable external support is needed for this project, IDA is best
equipped to play the important catalytic role required to mobilize the needed assistance from the
donor's community and to influence government's strategy. The proposed project, consistent with
IDA's human resources development and poverty alleviation objectives in Senegal, has drawn from
other nutrition-related studies, particularly from the IDA-funded Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project in
India and the 15-year nutrition project implemented by USAID/Catholic Relief Services in Senegal,
regarding food targeting and the composition of a food supplement, i.e, that cannot be sold on the
market (Annex 1). Best practices from nutrition projects have indicated the importance of
communication and community mobilization in targeted interventions; the need to establish program
sustainability through clearly defined nutritional entry and exit criteria; and the need for regular
on-the-job training and supportive supervision systems with clearly defined accountabilities. These
lessons form the overriding principles for the design of the proposed operation. These lessons have
been taken into account for the proposed project orientation, design, funding, and implementation.
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Design
3.01      The project's development objectives are:
(i)   to halt a deterioration in the nutritional status of the most vulnerable groups
(malnourished children under three years of age and pregnant and nursing women) in
targeted poor urban neighborhoods;
(ii)   to provide potable water to unserviced neighborhoods targeted under the nutrition
program; and
(iii)  to enhance household food security among poor urban populations and households "at
risk" in targeted poor rural areas during critical periods of vulnerability.
3.02      The specific project implementation objectives are:
(i)   to demonstrate the feasibility of targeted, efficient and cost-effective delivery of
community nutrition interventions; and
(ii)   to execute a poverty-oriented program through AGETIP, a privately operated agency,
rather than a ministry, applying delegated contract management to local entrepreneurs,
such as women and youth groups, community associations, and local NGOs.
3.03      Realization of the last objective will demonstrate the potential for replacing the
traditional role of Government in delivering public services by one where Government would provide
those services in terms of planning, programming and budgeting, but leave their delivery and partial
cost recovery to the more efficient agents of the private sector. Moreover, the project's urban
nutrition and rural household food security programs have been designed so as to complement each
other in contributing to both nutrition and household food security by: ensuring a food supplement to
malnourished children and pregnant and nursing women, as weli as to the siblings aged 6-36 months
of the malnourished children, and by generating household income through labor-intensive
employment activities in the neighborhoods or villages of the target population. Progress in
achieving these objectives will be assessed against monitoring and evaluation indicators that have



9
been developed and agreed upon with the Government, AGETIP, and key stakeholders during an
"Objectives-oriented project planning" (ZOPP) workshop held in July 1994. In the long term, the
development objectives of the project will be to strengthen management capacity in the area of
nutrition, according to replicable and sustainable mechanisms and to assist the Government of
Senegal in the preparation of a national strategy to fight malnutrition.
B. Project Description
3.04      The project will consist of three major components: (a) a nutrition program, consisting
of Infornation, Education and Communication (IEC) interlocutors, supported by supplementary
feeding which includes micronutrients, growth monitoring, and referral to basic health services for
the target population in urban areas, and a small fund for research and development; (b) a water
program that would meet the water needs of poor households in many of the samne households in the
targeted neighborhoods of the nutrition program; and (c) a pilot household food security program
in targeted rural poor areas. As an integral part of these three components, there will be (i) a
package of social mobilization and IEC; (ii) a package of training to build local capacity for
nutrition/health service delivery; and (iii) a management information system for monitoring and
evaluation, supported by systematic client consultation throughout project execution to ensure
necessary program adjustments reflecting participants' views. These elements are mutually
supportive and establish the basis for a longer term strategy to deal with nutrition and household food
security problems.
3.05      The proposed project will be IDA's first free-standing nutrition project in Senegal and
one of the first projects of this kind in Africa. It is not an emergency intervention, but an
experimental one that attempts to test an innovative approach, i.e., a private delivery mechanism to
assist targeted vulnerable groups in the area of nutrition. Important lessons provided by IDA's
experience in the nutrition sector in other regions of the world and with health projects in Africa are
that strong political commitment by government, community ownership and involvement of all
stakeholders in the decision-making process are crucial for successful implementation. The creation
of the National Commission for the Fight Against Malnutrition, with the strong support from the
President of the Republic of Senegal, is an encouraging example of Govenmment commitment to
address the problem of malnutrition among the most vulnerable groups, and offers an unprecedented
opportunity for engaging all national and international partners to join forces in addressing
malnutrition. The preparation of the proposed project has addressed ownership aspects. A rapid
beneficiary assessment and a ZOPP workshop were carried out to identify project objectives and
target groups, to understand where coping strategies are inadequate to ensure household food
security and good nutritional status of segments of the target population, to define jointly with the
targeted population appropriate nutrition interventions, and to determine the willingness and
mechanisms by which the target group would participate in the implementation of the nutrition
component. This project will complement ongoing donor-assisted nutrition projects which provide
IEC on nutrition rehabilitation of malnourished children through the health system.
Nutrition Program
3.06      The objectives of the nutrition program are: (i) to halt a deterioration of the nutritional
status of the vulnerable groups (pregnant and nursing women and children below the age of three
years) in targeted poor communities; and (ii) to bring about a change in nutritional behavior of
mothers, particularly in terms of breastfeeding, child weaning and diarrheal treatment.



10
3.07      The nutrition program will involve three sub-components: (i) an IEC intervention aimed
at changing nutrition behavioral patterns, supported by supplementary feeding and child growth
monitoring; (6) some basic preventive health care, through a referral service of severely
malnourished children to nutrition rehabilitation centers, and health posts and centers, in particular
for sick and malnourished children and for family planning (Annex I, paras. 9-10); and (iii) a fund
for research and development so as to encourage development of small entrepreneurs in the food
supply and processing business and to contribute policy and program improvements in the nutrition
sector. A weekly take-home supplement will be provided to pregnant and nursing women and
malnourished children aged 6 to 36 months (including siblings of malnourished children below 3
years) in the target areas. A monthly growth-monitoring session will be held by specially trained
community nutrition centers (CNCs) staff. The age and weight of all children enrolled in the
nutrition program will be registered on growth charts, and mothers will receive counselling on how
well their children are doing. The nutrition program will be operated by a variety of specially trained
micro-entrepreneurs (MICs), such as women groups, community associations, and youth groups, in
community nutrition centers (CNCs). They will be supervised by NGOs and Groupements d'Interet
Economique (GIEs), which will be contracted and trained specifically for this purpose and report to
AGETIP. Local Steering Committees (Comites de pilorage) made up of local religious leaders,
neighborhood chiefs, opinion leaders and various local groups and associations will provide the
means towards local ownership and communty commitment and, as such, participatory advice and
overall oversight.
3.08      The food supplement serves a dual purpose: to partially fill the food gap in poor peri-
urban households which have had to reduce their food consumption due to lower purchasing power,
and to serve as an instrument for behavioral change towards better breastfeeding and weaning
practices. It is for this reason that the food supplement, growth monitoring and the [EC interventions
are inseparable and will be treated in an integrated way. The project is designed to ensure that CNCs
will not be regarded as food handout centers by the target population. Moreover, on-site feeding of
children has been ruled out because of its heavy demands on the time of mothers and on project
management capacity.
3.09      The relationship between the MOH and the CNCs will be constant and mutually
beneficial. For example, when clinically indicated a child will be referred to health facilities operated
by the MOH to receive preventive or curative health services. A referral person in charge of
receiving any referred child will be identified. When no health infrastructure exists near a CNC, the
ongoing IDA-supported Human Resources Development Project (Cr. 2255-SE) will assist in the
rehabilitation or construction of new health facilities on a priority basis in targeted areas. AGETIP
and the primary health care division of the MOH have mapped out for each existing health center its
zone of intervention and the location of the CNCs and the district hospitals for secondary referrals of
severe malnutrition cases. CNCs will provide an "outreach" base into the communities for the MOH,
including extending its mother and child health care and family planning activities. To formalize
relationships between MOH and AGETIP, a Convention has been signed between these two entities.
The signing of the Convention was a condinon ofnegotiations (para. 6.01). This agreement
requires at least monthly visits to the CNCs by medical personnel, to deal with health facility
referrals, choice and coordination of IEC messages, and mobilization of the community for health
events. The District Medical Officer, who is a member of the District Nutrition Committee (Annex
II, para. 10), will receive monthly monitoring reports on project progress, which will enable the
health service to improve its targeting. The MOH-AGET[P agreement also spells out the mechanism
by which the Community Health Committees will ensure that monthly check-ups and an essential
drug package (oral rehydration salt, vitamin A, iron and folic acid, deworniing and malaria tablets)



I1
will be available to CNC participants, consistent with the cost-recovery approach being implemented
by MOH.
3.10      To address micronutrient deficiencies, the project will implement a three-pronged
approach: the food supplement will contain a multi-vitamin and mineral mix; micronutrient
supplements (iron and folic acid tablets to pregnant women and children, and vitamin A capsules)
will be distributed by the Community Health Committee; and finally, periodic distribution of
deworming tablets will help decrease the problems of anemia among children.
3.11      With regard to the educational and behavioral aspects of the IEC program, existing
research findings suggest that the strategy should focus on three principal themes: (i) exclusive
breast feeding for the first five months and the timely introduction of appropriate weaning food
thereafter, providing five meals a day for children under 3 years, in addition to breast milk; (ii)
proper growth monitoring; and (iii) prevention of diarrheal diseases and of dehydration. Promotion
of these themes will utilize messages, communication materials and approaches already developed
and to various degrees successfully tested in projects supported by Senegal's Food and Applied
Nutrition Service (SANAS), the United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF). Other existing material
will also be adapted. A multi-faceted strategy for promoting the central themes will be pursued. This
includes the use of mass-media, group approaches, traditional media, counseling, and training of
community collaborators.
3.12      The services offered by the CNCs will be provided to the target population according to
strict entry and exit criteria, especially for the food supplement in order not to create a dependency
on this food. The entry and exit criteria for the target population are as follows:
- Children aged 6-36 months: moderately to severely malnourished children, siblings of the
moderately to severely malnourished children in the same age group, and children who have
failed to gain weight for two consecutive months will be those who can enter the program.
The children will receive a weekly food supplement and monthly growth monitoring for six
months. It is anticipated that after that period an average of 80% of the children will exit the
food supplementation program; they will have gained weight and their mothers will have
received significant EEC sessions. The remaining 200/o, however, will probably re-enter
because of lack of weight gain, needing an additional six months of the food supplement.
- Pregnant Women: Entering the program will be women in the last three months of their first
pregnancy. They will receive the food supplement and benefit from IEC activities on a
weekly basis for three months.
- Nursing women: nursing women who have a child in the program (less than 24 months old) or
with a non-programn child less than six months old will receive food supplementation and
EEC on a weekly basis for six months.
- WeDl-nourished children and their mothers: mothers of children who are not malnourished
wil also be strongly encouraged to participate in the IEC program and to have their
children's growth monitored. All women and children entering the program will be referred
to health facilities for other services that they might need, thus strengthening the links
between the CNCs and the public health system and virtuaDy making the CNCs catchpoints
for the provision of basic health and family planning services and the distribution of micro-
nutrients.



12
3.13       The total number of beneficiaries of the nutrition program for the four-year project is
estimated at 350,000 women and children receiving the food supplement and other CNC services,
plus an additional 119,000 receiving CNC services without the supplement, resulting in a total
number of beneficiaries of 469,000 persons (based on a staff of four persons per CNC). The four
principal targeting criteria are: site selection (peri-urban poverty districts); demographics (pregnant
and nursing women, children aged 6 to 36 months); nutritional status (malnourished and/or no
weight gain); and food characteristics (sweet porridge is generally unappealing to adult males
because of traditional eating habits thus, it is self-targeting). The target locations for the first year of
the project (based on the ESP) are 21 neighborhoods in the cities of Pikine, Dakar, Diourbel,
Kaolack, and Ziguinchor (Annex III, Attachment A), covering a total of 50,000 persons, plus an
additional 17,000 persons, resulting in a total number of beneficiaries of 67,000. Table I presents the
target population and the number of centers broken down by year. Assurances were given during
negotiations that the specific neighborhoods for the creation of CNCs for the second, third and
fourth year of the project will be presented by AGETIP to IDA no later than March 1996, March
1997, and March 1998. (para. 6.02e). Moreover, a large share of the country's total population will
receive nutrition/health messages through mass media campaigns. About one third of the targeted
population is estimated to consist of pregnant and nursing women. The project aims at reaching
some 30% of all malnourished children 0-3 years in the selected urban areas. These targets will be
reviewed at the time of project effectiveness, annually thereafter. The project will respond to
beneficiary-led demands. Further details on the Nutrition Program and on targeting are provided in
Annexes II and HI
Table 1: Nutriltion Program - Beneficiaries and Centers by Year
Beneficiaries           Year 1    Year 2     Year 3     Year 4      Total
Receive Food Supp & Services/wk
Children                          31 000     59 000    67 000      73 000    230 000
Nursing mothers and First Pregnancy
Women                             19 000     31 000    33 000      37 000     120 000
Sub-total                        50 000    90 000     100 000    110 000    350 000
Receive Monthly Services Onlv
Children                          8 500      15 300     17 000     18 700     59 500
Mothers                           8 500      15 300     17 000     18 700     59 500
TOTAL BENEFICIARIES               67 000    120 600    134 000    147 400    469 000
Number of new centers               72        107        104        114        397
Number of old centers                          72        179        283
Total number of opened centers      72        179       283         397
The assumptions underlying the above estimates are found in Annex M.
3.14       Beneficiaries who receive full service (i.e., food supplement, growth monitoring, and
IEC) will be charged a fee of CFAF 50/week for their participation, in keeping with the Ministry of
Health's current practice of partial cost recovery for drugs. This fee will be reviewed annually in
light of project objectives. The fees collected will be managed by the Local Steering Cdmmittees in
collaboration with the MICs, and will be used exclusively for the CNC's upkeep and for emergency
situations, such as a severely malnourished child whose mother does not have the transport money to
go to the nearest health center. Transparency will be ensured by making the beneficiaries well aware



13
of the fee and by showing the accounts and use of the money to the CNC's Local Steering
Comnuittee.
3.15      The food supplement will be produced locally, using only local foodstuffs (pearl millet,
roasted cowpeas, roasted peanuts), except for sugar and a multi-vitamin/mineral mix which will be
imported. The addition of sugar is intended both to increase the energy contents of the product and
to enhance its self-targeting characteristics, making it less appealing as an all-family food. One
hundred grams of the dry supplement, to be prepared as a pap similar to the local millet porridge
(rouye), provide 370400 kcal and some 15 grams of protein, in addition to the energy and nutrients
derived from breastmilk and regular food. An infant/small child can consume 100 grams of the
product in about two meals. The product's characteristics are in line with international guidelines for
weaning foods established by the Codex Alimnentarius Comrnission in 1991 and with product
specifications for locally manufactured fortified blended foods suggested by WFPIUNICEF.
3.16      A simple, inexpensive process will be used for the manufacture of the supplement. A
group of Senegalese food processors have been identified who collectively have the capacity to
produce the food. The cost of the blended food is expected to be within the normal range of this type
of food produced in other countries. WFP will finance the local production of the food supplement
through monetization of imported food aid and will co-ordinate the activities of the entire food chain
from local procurement to processing, packaging, storage (CSA), distribution to the CNCs and
quality control (ITA) at all levels. WFP will use a competitive bidding process for procurement to
attempt to stimulate interest by other manufacturers in addition to those already identified. It will
also identify one or more alternative formulations for the product which will enable it to substitute
ingredients which might not be available at competitive prices in a given season. Moreover, WFP
will reserve a portion (up to 25%) of total food-supplement requirements for possible production by
small producers or micro-entrepreneurs, with a view to laying the basis for potential future
small/micro-enterprise production for ensuring project sustainability. As further insurance on the
sustainability of these micro-enterprises, some training in management will be provided by the
project to these micro-entrepreneurs to ensure that they acquire skills for eventual diversification of
their business. As a condition ofproject effectiveness, WFP will confirm to the Government and
IDA the availability offiunds to purchase the local ingredients for the purposes of the supplemen-
tary feeding program (para. 6.04a). Details on the food-supplement are given in Annex II.
3.17      The Nutrition Program has been tested during a six-month pilot phase. This procedure
was prompted by the unusual approach for the Bank of executing a nutrition program through a
privately operated entity, involving large numbers of local NGOs and micro-entrepreneurs made up
of a large variety of community groups. The pilot phase has shown that AGETIP is able to handle
this additional activity, without jeopardizing its ongoing work program. The strong emphasis on
social mobilization was an additional factor calling for particularly careful preparation and the pre-
testing of many innovative features, which potentially lay the basis for a longer term food and
nutrition program in Senegal.
3.18      The experience of the pilot phase has demonstrated the need to make provisions to allow
AGETEP to have some flexibility over the delivery mechanism but also over the composition of the
food supplement and packaging, over a future diversification of supply sources, and over ways of
addressing technical issues as they arise. Therefore, a Special Fund of US$1 milion will be created
and managed by AGETIP. The Fund is principally designed to encourage development of small
entrepreneurs in the food supply and processing business in selected peri-urban and rural areas in the
vicinity of CNCs; and to contribute policy and program improvements in the nutrition sector.



14
3.19      It is envisioned by the mid-term review that at least some of the blended food will be
produced by women's groups or other micro-entrepreneurs at or near the CNCs as an alternative to
centralized large scale manufacturers. This concept entails producing a cereal-based product sinilar
in composition and nutritional quality to the current product, but made with simple inexpensive
equipment under supervised conditions. The concept also requires that the product meet the safety
and health standards required of the current product, and that the local producers obtain a reasonable
profit margin. The Special Fund will provide the financial resources to undertake these research and
development activities with the assistance of the Senegal Food Technology Institute (ITA). The ITA
will be contracted to make tests and provide analyses of costs, benefits and technical requirements to
develop supply responses for the production of the food supplement at the grassroot level.
3.20      The Special Fund will provide funds, up to US$800,000, to purchase services from
micro and small producers that meet the production requirements of the project. It will neither
finance start-up capital costs, nor the purchase of equipment. If the product is found satisfactory,
i.e., its quality is certified by ITA to meet the recommended nutritional value, its price is competitive,
its quantity is estimated by WFP to be sufficient for project needs, and the logistics for its
distribution is ensured by WFP, AGETIP will be able to enter into a contractual arrangement to
purchase the food supplement from this producer. The bidding documents and the sample contract
detailing the obligations of the two parntes are an integral part of the Manual of Procedures that
were reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations (para. 6.02b). The number of small and
artisanal firms selected by AGETIP to supply alternative food supplements to the project will be a
function of the size of the fund and of the capacity of the firms that will have won participation in the
project. This component will be discontinued as soon as the funds allocated to it are spent.
3.21      The experience gained in the first year of implementation of this project will be valuable
for any broader national effort to address Senegal's nutrition problems, particularly its extension to
the rural areas. Therefore, the Special Fund will finance (up to US$200,000) the revision of the
1991-1996 national nutrition program action plan, undertaken by the MOH. These efforts will be
carried out in light of the project's experience in terms of identifying nutritional problems and
solutions, success in utilizing NGOs to carry out nutrition interventions for vulnerable groups,
development of a domestic food supplement industry, behavioral change and social mobilization
aspects which lead to improved knowledge and nutrition outcomes. Assurances were given during
negotiationsfrom Government that under the aegis of the National Commissionfor the Fight
Against Malnutrition, the technical advisory committee will draft appropriate terms of reference of
a studyfor updating the national nutrition action plan that will be presented to IDA for review no
later than July 31, 1996 (para. 6.02rn). The Commission will oversee the execution of any studies
and review the results in light of project activities and experience, and will ensure their implication
in a broader, longer-term rural and urban national nutrition strategy and program.
Water Program
3.22      The water component, which has been designed in line with the Third National Water
Project, which is proposed for FY96 Bank support, aims at assuring adequate drinking water
supplies (extension of networks to increase home supplies, installation of new standpipes) and
improving general health conditions of the population concerned,.during and af*r the lifetime of the
project. This component will also ensure that the current water supply deficit in Dakar will not
become a constraint in the implementation of the nutrition progranm, in view of the requirements for
safe drinking water for the preparation of the food supplement to be distributed by the program.
Studies have shown that most of the project's targeted communities do not have connections to public
services and do not have ready access to potable water, both essential elements for a community's



15
health status and its level of environmental hygiene. KfW financed a feasibility study on all
technical, socio-economic, financial and institutional aspects of the water component, with a view to
ensuring the provision of safe water to the target population. In Dakar, despite the overall drinking
water deficit (15-30% of requirements), it is still possible to improve the supply situation in poor
peri-urban areas, because of their proximity to large water-pipe conduits and the low water demand
of the poor population (40 liters per person/day for households linked up with the water supply
network, and 25 liters per person/day for stand-pipe users). In the provincial capitals targeted for the
first project year (Kaolack, Diourbel and Ziguinchor), the production capacity of the National Water
Company of Senegal (SONES) is sufficient, so that the water supply network can be extended to the
peri-urban areas.
3.23      During the first year, the water component will cover 12 poor neighborhoods that have
poor water services, of which five are in Dakar and seven in the provincial towns (Diourbel one,
Kaolack three, Ziguinchor three). For the first year of operation, these neighborhoods will have a
total population of around 174,000 inhabitants (est. for 1995). In these areas, standpipes are to be
installed and managed by private entrepreneurs. A study on the willingness of the poor to pay for the
water showed that they can pay for this improved water service. For the users of standpipes, the
study revealed that the poor can allocate up to 10% of their incomes for water purchases. The
beneficiaries of private connections will be able to meet their bills which generally fall within the
limits of the "social category" of SONES's tariff structure. Moreover, SONES has become more
flexible with regard to cost recovery, offering the possibility of paying water bills in installments; this
allows households not to have to pay a major amount ($8-1 0 every two months) in a single payment.
The "drinking water" component envisages a network extension of 11.2 km and the construction of
30 public standpipes. Assurances were given during negotiations that the proposed areas for
intervenhon for the three subsequent years of the project will be agreed upon by AGETUP and
Government and presented to IDA no later than March 1996, March 1997, and March 1998 (para.
6.02e). The prograrn will be implemented under the supervision of AGETIP, which will sub-contract
the works to local enterprises according to a schedule of charges established by SONES. For the
purpose of greater involvement of the beneficiary population, the contracted enterprises will have to
recruit workers and unskilled laborers from the population of the neighborhoods concemed. The
procedures and practices necessary for this approach are well known and widely applied in the
framework of highly labor-intensive community works already undertaken by AGETIP.
3.24      Sensitization and sanitation education are key factors for the success of the water
program. For this reason, it is envisaged that a member of each CNC will be responsible for and
trained in sensitizing and educating beneficiaries in the field of water. Issues to be discussed include
the links between water and health, the cost of access to potable water, the hygiene aspects of water
conservation, and the organization of the collection and disposal of household garbage. The [EC
agents will be selected by the micro-enterprises from the population of the concemed neighborhoods,
according to their qualifications and ability to influence people. Moreover, the organizational
structure and management of the Nutrition Management Division (NMD) will be strengthened with
the inclusion of a sanitary engineer on its staff for the entire duration of the program. The sanitary
engineer will be in charge of: (i) adapting the water program to the operational framework of
AGETIP, SONES and the services of the Ministry of Hydraulics, and (ii) detemining the sites for
the extension of the networks and the standpipes, which are to be in the same areas as the nutrition
prograrn. The details of the Water Program are presented in Annex IV.



16
Rural Household Food Security Program
3.25      Rural malnutrition is a very significant problem in Senegal. While benefits from the
January 1994 devaluation have improved the situation for those working in agriculture, rural
household food insecuity among the poor remains a very senous and continuing concern. The
Bank's Agriculture Sectoral Adjustment Loan is expected to result in further improvemeu in the
livelihoods of those active in agriculture, and enhance food security, particularly for the poor living
in rural areas. Nevertheless, for those who are chronically food insecure, a more targeted effort is
required. This component, therefore, will formulate and test targeted approaches to assist
chronically food insecure and malnourished rural women and children living below the poverty line.
It will do so by making available food security and nutrition information and advice, food
supplements, food, cash or cash equivalents, principally through labor-intensive infrastructure and
income-generating activities.
3.26      The intention is to learn from the first phase of project operations in the ten priority
urban centers. It is also the intention to gain a better understanding of where and how to improve
conditions for rural women and children through behavioral change, greater access to food, diet
diversity, clean water, food production and income-generating programs. Further, this will be an
opportunity to look more closely at time allocation patterns of rural mothers, and ways to enhance
women's control over household income. A useful starting point in identifying and tracking
vulnerable groups in rural communities is the CSA 's Suivi des zones et groupes d risques
alimentaires, a monthly bulletin identifying trends in food insecure regions and groups which is done
in cooperation with the MOH.
3.27      AGETIP's rural partners will be principally those rural organizations which are similar
to the MOCs and MICs in peri-urban areas. These would include some of the existing 3,600 rural
and urban women groups in Senegal. In addition, the Federation of Non-Governmental
Organizations in Senegal (FONGS) and the associated Comite National de Concertation Rurale
(CNCR) provide technical and administrative support to member farmer organizations, and could
perform MOC-like functions. Similarly, traditional women's associations have social and safety net
functions, with some taking up regular collections which go to members in need. Many of these
groups have been further organized by rural Government agents (Monitrices Rurales) to become
Women Promotion Groups (GPF) retaining traditional functions while expanding into economic
activities. Small economic interest groups (GIEs) function in rural areas, as they do in urban
settings, with the added feature that agricultural extension activities for women are channeled
through such groups.
3.28      The rural household food security program will be developed in collaboration with other
donors, such as WFP. While experimentation is foreseen, the initial approach will be to develop
labor-intensive community micro-projects, such as wells, village health posts, classrooms, school
canteens, conmmunity gardens, food storage facilities, and maintenance of communal roads which are
of principal benefit to the poorest households. Targeting in the ruml areas will be done through pre-
qualified NGOs and other active rural entities such as the PNVA and the Monifrces Rurales, who
will inform village groups of the program and mobilize these groups to be able to carry them out.
These organizing entities will be trained in reaching poor village households, in order to be able to
assist them in forming MIC-like groups for infrastructure construction activities and to identify
promising income-generating activities.



17
3.29      In determining sub-project selection, food security concems of poor households will take
precedence over strictly investrnent objectives. Details on the selection criteria, institutional
arrangemets for micro-project implementation and supervision will be developed by a working
group composed of AGETIP, technical representatives from the National Commission members,
NGOs, and representatives of the Consultative Group. By June 1997, a proposal. satisfactory to
IDA, will have been prepared and presented for approval to the National Commission for the Fight
Against Malnutrition (see terms of reference in Annex V). Assurances were given during
negotiations (hat the action plan to implement the householdfood security program will be
completed two months prior to the mid-term review by WEP and IDA (para 6.02n). Disbursements
for the rural householdfood security program will be conditoned on an approved plan of action,
acceptable to IDA during the mid-term review (para 6.05). The first set of activities will commence
during the June-September 1997 hungry period and be fully underway by Februarv-Apnrl 1998, the
period of low rural labor demand.
Social Mobilization and IEC Programs
3.30      The social mobilization and IEC Programs, central to all the components of the project,
will be used to encourage the participation of all those involved in the project and to stimulate
positive behavior change arnong the target populations. The project is based on a premise of broad
and sustained political support, good communications between all levels of stakeholders and
community participation. The social mobilization objectives are: (i) to mobilize political support and
collaboration for the project at the national, regional and community level; (ii) to ensure that the
community has a sense of ownership of the project and participates in its planning and execution; and
(iii) to improve the capacity of communuities to provide and broaden access to nutrition and related
health services.
3.31       Critical elements in the mobilization strategy at the national level mclude the political
support provided by the National Commission for the Fight Against Malnutrition, as well as national
planning meetings, such as ZOPP workshops. Mass media campaigns will aim at sensitizing the
public at-large to the problems addressed by the project and their solutions. A key factor in
mobilization efforts at the commrunity level is the establishment of local steering committees,
composed of local leaders, GlEs and associations, and representatives of local authorities. These
committees will serve as a mechanism for communication and coordination among all local stake-
holders in the project, and as an instrument for community supervision, problem identification and
problem-solving. The social mobilization strategy at the community level also includes a variety of
public meetings tailored to local traditions (including local language theater, grbot or public
speakers). The social mobilization component will be directed by community supervisors (MOC) in
conjunction with agents of the CNC and will be supervised by AGETIP.
3.32      The objectives of the IEC program are: (i) to stimulate positive behavioral change
among the target population and strengthen their capacity to manage their nutrition, health and
relaied problems; and (ii) to increase awareness of nutrition, health and sanitation conditions and
ways of addressing them among the public at-large, including the leaders responsible for the
provision of social services. [EC strategies, messages and materials are being developed and pre-
tested in collaboration with Government ministries including the MOH and the Ministry of Family,
Women and Children; NGOs; international organizations such as UNICEF and USAID; and private
sector consulting finns. Their primary target groups are pregnant and nursing women in the case of
the nutrition program, and households and communities in the targeted poverty areas of the water
program. This difference in target groups within the overall target population will require distinct
IEC strtegies for each program. The nutrition program will rely heavily on client consultation at the



18
CNC in the form of individual counseling (through the CNC's Commnunity Health Agent), group
meetings (organized by the CNC's IEC agent), household visits of CNC agents to targeted women,
and community-level activities. In the case of the water program, emphasis will be given to
household- and community-level approaches. The latter would-as in the case of social mobilization-
-include traditional media such as foilkore theater.
3.33      The mass media will play a complementary role in the delivery of IEC messages for both
programs. Particular emphasis will be placed on broadcasts in national languages on regional radio
stations. Initially, IEC messages would focus on growth monitoring; breast feeding and good
weaning practices; oral rehydration; and good water and hygiene practices, as well as prudent use
and continuing maintenance of the infrastructure constructed in the water program. Other themes
will be identified and messages and materials developed during project implementation. The
effectiveness of these messages in the project context wiDl be ascertained through annual beneficiary
assessments and Knowledge, Attitude and Practice (KAP) studies. There will be a need to develop
new messages and materials where none exist and in response to obstacles identified through client
consultation.
3.34      Major emphasis will be placed on client consultation and research to guide and improve
the quality and efficiency of project interventions. Behavioral and operational research wiDl be
integrated in the development of strategies, messages and materials. This will require research: (i)
to gain insights into the target population's behavior; (ii) to identify obstacles to changes in behavior
and misinformation; (iii) to pre-test strategies and materials with target populations; and (iv) to
monitor and evaluate the program to measure IEC-induced behavioral change. This work will be
mainly conducted by private consultants recruited by AGETIP. Further details are given in Annex
VI.
Training
3.35      The training component will include: (i) a package of on-the-job training services related
to work organization, management, and technical and nutritional training for micro-entrepreneurs
who are awarded contracts for delivery of nutrition services; (ii) a training program for supervisory
services to be carried out through contracted NGOs; and (iii) training in how to plan and conduct
IEC, including strategy and materials development, use of materials, and inter-personal
comnunications techniques. EEC training wil be provided to small and micro-entrepreneurs and local
NGOs, and to participants involved in social mobilization. Training of those implementing the social
mobilization and EEC programs wiDl be done through the training of trainer model. The training
program will be contracted out to private pre-selected firms who have been training entrepreneurs
and supervisors of existing social mobilization aspect in projects managed by AGETIP. Training
modules have already been developed and adapted from existing materials. Agreement on a detailed
training program for entrepreneurs and supervisors and the IEC program for beneficiaries will be
submitted to IDA for review no later than July 1, 1995. (para. 6.02g).
3.36      During project preparation, training was provided to some 120 micro-entrepreneurs and
their staff, as well as to a number of supervisors (NGOs) in order to implement the pilot phase.
Young medical doctors, formerly unemployed, have been trained to perform training and special
supervising functions in the nutrition program. It is expected that during the life of the project nearly
4000 persons, including micro-entrepreneurs, supervisors, and AGETIP staff, will benefit from
training. Further articulation of the length and content of the training program will be developed,
based on continuing information generated during the pilot phase. At present, an initial training
program is envisaged for CNC staff prior to the start-up of a CNC, to be followed by a second



19
training session after approximately six months of operation, and a third session after one year.
Annex VII describes the Training program.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.37      A monitoring and evaluation system will be set up: (i) to permit the continuous review
and calibration of the prograrn design; (ii) to strengthen the Government's monitoring and evaluation
capacity in nutrition in order to analyze the cost-effectiveness and appropriateness of various
intervention strategies; (iii) to determine the progress of project activities according to planned
targets and schedule, and to propose appropriate corrective actions; (iv) to verify and update existing
information on the extent, severity and location of various forms of malnutrition; (v) to establish the
impact of project activities on nutritional status and to relate these changes to other socio-economic
and behavioral variables; and (vi) to provide a basis for ongoing evaluation of the project
effectiveness by local, district and national level government. The monitoring system will allow for
quick analysis and availability of information at all levels of project management through a simple,
computerized reporting systen, with warning thresholds. A baseline census for each geographic area
of project intervention will provide the information base to identify malnourished children and to
monitor project progress. The evaluation system will consist of baseline and impact studies in cross-
sectional samples of target and control populations. Agreement was reached on the annual
monitoring indicators, supervision guides, and the terms of reference for the base-line and impact
evaluation studies to be submitted to IDA no later than July 1, 1995 (paras. 6.02 k and 1). It should
be kept in mind that measurement of project impact will be affected by the considerable mobility (in-
and out-migration) of the population in the targeted areas. Several operations research studies will
be undertaken to gather information that neither the monitoring nor the evaluation system will reveal
concerning ways to improve project effectiveness (Annex VIII). Finally, in order to improve the
monitoring of the overall situation of vulnerable groups in Senegal, the project will finance short-
term technical assistance in the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning.
C. Status of Project Preparation
3.38      During project preparation a number of studies, financed under the Second Public
Works and Employment Project (Cr. No. 2369-SE), were conducted to deepen the understanding of
poverty and malnutrition in Senegal and ensure greater client consultation and participation. These
studies included:
a. a beneficiary assessment of poor urban households to examine changes in household food
consumption behavior following the devaluation and to solicit these households' views on a
supplernental feeding program;
b. a targeting study to identify poor neighborhoods in regional capitals and other main urban
centers, as well as the project's target population in these areas;
c. a study of eating habits of the target population in urban areas to identify breastfeeding
practices, weaning foods and food habits of women, so as to help define an appropriate
composition of the food supplement;
d. a study on social mobilization to determine the most effective methods of encouraging
conmmunity participation and ownership;



20
e. a census of comnuniuty groups, NGOs and women associations; and
f. a study on existing health/nutrition services and facilities in the targeted areas.
3.39      In addition, the prospective co-financiers, the World Food Program (WFP) and Germany
(KfW), have been intensivel) involved in project preparation, since identification started in March
1994. WFP-financed a study ("Local Production of a Blended Food in Senegal for Use in the
Community Nutrition Project") to determine the most appropriate composition of the food
supplement. The recommendations of the study were reviewed by WFP, AGETIP, KfW and the
World Bank in July 1994. Following this meeting, a supplementary study (Etude relative a la
production d'un aliment de complement pour le Projet de Nutrition Communautaire au Senegal)
was conducted in August 1994 by a local consultant under WFP and AGETIP supervision. These
studies prompted the following pilot activities: (i) a trial run for the production of the food
supplement; (ii) a test of the acceptability of the food supplement with a sample of the target
population; (iii) the selection of targeted neighborhoods; (iv) a census and nutritional screening of the
population in the targeted areas; and (v) a workshop of project stakeholders on the LEC and social
mobilization strategy. The studies have also contributed to the preparation of the pilot phase, which
was launched in three neighborhoods in November 1994 in order to field test project approaches and
procedures and to fine-tune them prior to actual project implementation, thus ensuring effective
project implementation.
3.40      On the uistitutional side, a National Commission for the Fight Against Malnutrition was
created at the Presidency in June 1994 to ensure that a social safety net for poor households be
available. The Commission, chaired by the President of Senegal, is composed of representatives of
the Prime Minister's Office, of the ministries of Economy, Finance and Plan, Health and Social
Action, and Women, Children and Farmily Affairs, AGETIP, and NGOs. The Commission is playing
a strong role in supporting AGETIP's community mobilization efforts and in ensuring coordination
among ministries involved in project implementation. A Technical Committee, chaired by the MOH
and composed of the ministries of Women, Children and the Family, of the Economy, Finance and
Plan, and AGETIP, was formed to assist in project design. This Committee is supported by a
Consultative Committee which includes representatives of UNICEF, WFP, USAID, GTZ,
ORSTOM, SANAS, DSSP, EPS, ENDA, and the BASICS Project, so as to allow an exchange of
views on a number of technical, nutritional and institutional issues and to ensure that best practice is
followed.
3.41      A ZOPP workshop was held during project preparation for key stakeholders involved in
the planning of the project. The week-long planning workshop was organized and financed with
GTZ's assistance. The workshop brought together representatives of Governmnent Ministries, the
Presidency, NGOs and donors. The following Ministries were represented: Health and Social
Action; Family, Women and Children; Agriculture; Finance; and Interior. The Secretary General of
the Presidency also attended. The workshop identified nutrition-related health problems and obstacles
in dealing with them. The objectives of the project were then clarified, project activities and intended
results identified, and indicators to monitor results defined. The ZOPP was useful in developing a
framework for the project and a consensus between the Government, the financial partners and
NGOs.
3.42      UNICEF has also provided advice throughout project preparation. It has contributed
extensively to the planning of the IEC component by: (i) providing pedagogical materials on key
areas, especially breastfeeding, diarrhea, anemia and deworming; (ii) supplying SANAS with
relevant leaflets; and (iii) holding a seminar/workshop in September 1994 to review and further



21
develop nutrition/IEC modules and medias (audio-visual spots, posters, flip charts and root medias)
used in Senegal. AGETIP attended the September seminar which was held with key partners,
SANAS, EPS, the BASICS Project, and selected NGOs (e. g. ENDA). In addition, AGETIP held
another seminar with these key partners and UNICEF in December 1994. The IEC strategy and the
yearly planning of EEC activities for the project were finalized during the seminar.
3.43      In the process of project planning, an examination of the issue of potable water in the
poor neighborhoods indicated the need for further review of water sources. The Government
requested an advance under the Project Preparation Facility to finance such a study during the pilot
phase. A PPF of USS500,000 was granted for this purpose, as well as to fund the activities of the
pilot phase up to project effectiveness. The water study was completed in December 1994.
3.44      For the pilot phase of the project, one neighborhood was selected in Dakar (Grand Yoff
Arafat), one in Pikine (Guinaw Rail) and one in Diourbel (Keur Cheikh Ibra). In order to validate
the data base used for the targeting and to verify the prevalence of malnutrition amnong children, a
baseline survey of all households in the three urban districts targeted was undertaken, during which
all children aged 6 to 36 months were screened for malnutrition. The survey indicated that roughly
30% of the children suffered from moderate to severe malnutrition. It was estimated that about
6,800 persons (children 6-36 months and pregnant and nursing women) constituted the target group
for the pilot phase under the orginal eligibility criteria.
3.45      AGETIP initiated the pilot phase with the support of two NGOs (ENDA, ADMUR), and
one GEE (Touba Boustane) as supervisors, and 23 micro-enterprises. In planning the pilot, AGETIP
involved the Govemors of the two regions concemed, and the Aide-Memoire of the July preparatory
mission was distributed to the regional authorities, the municipalities, the servces of the MOKL
SONES, and neighborhood leaders (chefs de quartier). In addition, AGETIP organized community
meetings that were attended by neighborhood leaders and representatives, community group leaders
(youth, women, and economic groups), and local NGOs. Based on these meetings, Steering
Commies (Comites de Pilotage) were forned and given official status by the Prefet or the
Govemor of the region. These committees have been expanded to include local health and hygiene
personnel of the MOK as well as community development and SONES representatives.
3.46      In February 1995, 58% of Guinaw Rail's malnourished children were receiving food
supplementation and growth monitoring at the CNCs. In Diourbel and Araft, however, the number
of beneficiary children registered at the CNCs significantly exceeded the number registered in the
baseline survey - by some 30% and nearly 100%, respectively. Limited comparability of the data
from the baseline survey (using the arm-circumference indicator) and the CNC data (based on the
weight-for-height indicator) and possible flaws in the baseline survey and CNC records can only
partially explain the significantly higher pilot phase numbers of malnourished children. There is
reason to believe, confinned by informal information provided by local NGOs, that child
malnutrition has increased in these neighborhoods. The issue will be kept under review and will be
further evaluated after project effectiveness. The high influx of people to CNCs has demonstat
(a) the very high demand for the food supplement and the services provided by the CNCs; (b) the
right targeting of neighborhoods; and (c) the need for more restrictive and fine-tuned eligibility
criteria as already reflected in paragraph 3.12. Focus groups have revealed that women appreciate
the food supplement, the EEC (notably group EEC) and growth monitoring services. Women
mentioned that the supplement was generally prepared as porridge in addition to other meals, but was
also given to other family children. They also expressed the desirability of associating some other
health- and development-related activities with the CNCs. Problems encountered regarding
production, quality control and packaging of the food supplement have been resolved in collaboration



22
with WFP and ITA. In addition, the pilot phase experience has indicated that the weekly ration size
could be reduced (from I kg to 700g/beneficiary/week) because intra-family leakage is taken into
account by allowing the siblings of malnourished children to benefit from the food supplement and
since the reduced ration provides the required daily caloric intake of 370400 kcal.
D. Project Costs and Financing
Costs
3.47       Total costs for the proposed project, excluding direct and indirect taxes and duties, are
estimated at US$28.0 million. AGETIP is a not-for-profit enterprise that has tax-exempt status.
Base costs are estimated at US$25.4 million equivalent, and total contingencies amount to US$2.6
rnillion equivalent (9.3% of total project costs). Foreign exchange would account for USS5.1
million, or 18.2% of total project costs. Detailed cost tables are presented in Annex LXK
3.48       Physical contingencies have been calculated at 5% for equipment, vehicles and
materials. The following price contingencies have been included: (i) on foreign exchange
expenditures 2.4% per annun, and (ii) on local cost expenditures 7.8% in 1995 and 2.5% per annum
thereafter. Estimates for equipment, training, studies, and vehicles are based on the experience of
AGETIP.
3.49       Project costs are based on January 1995 prices. Project costs by component, free of
taxes and duties, are shown in Table 2 below. The nutrition program would account for 60.2% of
base costs, the water program 11%, the rural household food security program 4.7%, social
mobilization and IEC activities 6.3%, the package of training 5.9%, monitoring and evaluation 5.9%/o,
and AGETIP's management fee 3.9%.
Table 2: Project Cost Summary (net of taxes and duties)
(TJSS million)
Local          Foreig             Total
Nutrition Program                            14.6             0.7              15.3
Water Program                                0.6             2.2               2.8
Rural Household Food Security Program        1.1             0.1               1.2
Social Mobilization and IEC                  1.3             0.3               1.6
Training                                     1.1              0.4              1.5
Monitoring and Evaluation                    0.8              0.7              1.5
AGETIP Management                            0.7              0.3              1.0
Pilot Operations and Project Preparation     0.4             0.1               0.5
Total BASE COSTS                            20.6              4.8             25.4
Physical and price contingencies            2.3              0.3              2.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                         22.9              5.1             28.0



23
Financing
3.50      Of the US$28.0 million total project costs, IDA would finance US$18.2 million
equivalent, or 65% of total project costs, for the delivery services of the nutrition program, the rural
household food security program, the social mobilization and IEC program, the training package, the
monitoring and evaluation system, and project management (Table 3). Through parallel co-
financing, WFP would contribute US$5.2 million, or 18.6% of total project costs, for the nutrition
program (funding food, processing and logistics of distribution). Through parallel co-financing,
KfW would fund US$3.0 million equivalent, or 10.7% of total project costs, to finance the water
program. UNICEF has contributed extensively to the planning of the social mobilization and IEC
component. The Government is expected to contribute US$ 1.6 million equivalent, or 5.7% of total
project costs.
Table 3: Financing Plan by Disbursement Category*
(USS million)
IDA          WFP        Germany        Govt.       Total
Amt    %    Amt    %   Amt    %         Amt  %   Amt         %
Water Programi                                    2.8   10.0               2.8    10.0
Nutrition services      9.2   32.8   5.2   18.6                 1.6  5.7  16.0    57.1
Training                1.5    54                                           1.5     5.4
AGETIP Mgint Fee        0.8    2.9                0.2    0.7                1.0     3.6
Consultant Serces       3.6   12.9                                          3.6    12.9
PPF Advance             0.5    1.8                                          0.5     1.8
Unallocated            2.6    9.2                                           2.6     9.2
Total Disbursements    18.2   65.0   S.2   18.6  3.0   10.7   1.6  5.7  28.0    100.0
Costs are net of taxe and duties I
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management
4.01      The Government of Senegal has designated AGETIP as the executing agency for this
project, as AGETIP has proven its ability to execute a broad range of projects successfully and
expeditiously, mainly because of its strong managerial and operational capacity. To that effect, an
amendmnent to the Convention between AGETIP and the Government of Senegal was agreed upon
during negotiations, and its signing will be the condition of Board Presentation (para. 6.03). To
ensure that AGETIP can effectively expand this capacity to the broader nandate of executing
community-based nutrition programs, the newly-created Nutrition Management Division will include
a small technical staff specialized in the areas of nutrition and health, water, IEC and social
mobilization, and monitorng and evaluation, under the guidance of a manager. During negotiations,
IDA received official notification of the nomination of the divisional director of AGET7P to
manage this new division (para. 6.01). The appointment of the key staff of the Nutrition
Management Division by AGETIP is a condition ofproject effectiveness (para. 6.04c). During
negotiations, assurances were given that the Government of Senegal will agree that at all times



24
the management of this Division will be handled by a person acceptable to IDA (para. 6.02d).
AGETIP will execute the project under the established procedures of "delegated contract
management", with extensive use of short-term consultants. Assurances were given at negotiations
that at the mid-term review an assessment will be carried out to determine the feasibility of
separating the NMD from AGETIP to make it a stand-alone agency (para. 6.02j). There will also
be a review as to whether other entities could execute delegated contract management responsibilities
similar to those performed by AGETIP. In view of the growing role of AGETIP in delegated project
contracting, this action aims at lessening the monopoly risk that may otherwise be created.
Moreover, starting with a pilot, the project will proceed in a phased manner, so as to ensure that
organizational, management and technical details have been sufficiently tested and adjusted to
account for absorptive capacity conditions in the field. Project implementation will be guided by a
detailed Manual of Procedures which, among others things, stipulates entry and exit criteria for
program participation to avoid food dependency, and establishes linkages with the health system to
ensure referral health services. The Manual clearly spells out objective criteria for cost-effective
targeting and specific indicators to monitor project implementation. In order to improve coordination
with the health system, clear contractual arrangements between AGETIP and the MOH are defined
in the Manual of Procedures. A draft of the Manual of Procedures was sent to IDA and agreement
on it was reached during negotiations (paras. 6.01 and 6.02b).
4.02      In order to ensure greater ownership of the project, District Steering Committees
(Comites de Pilotage) will be created in each district to play an advisory role and will be given
official status by decree of the Governor of the region. Members of the committees will be
representatives of the Govemor, Prefet or Sous-Pr6fet, the District medical officer, the mayor, and
neighborhood leaders, as well as agents from technical services involved in the project. Local
commnittees (Comites de Pilotage de quartiers) will be organized in each target neighborhood, in
order to participate in the elaboration of the social mobilization strategy pertinent to the
neighborhood and to provide periodic feedback to AGETIP on the overall project impact and
performance.
4.03      Nutrition program. Local groups-including GIEs, women groups, community
associations, and youth groups--will be the small and micro-entrepreneurs for the nutrition service
program. These groups will be instrumental to the success of this project since they will be the entry
point to communities and will provide the link between the planners at the national level and the
beneficiaries. They will be responsible for identifying and motivating beneficiaries, ensuring greater
community participation, and for delivering nutrition services. Supervisors of the nutrition centers
(NGOs and consultants), defined as organized groups with a technical capacity and legal status, will
be instrumental in the training and supervision of small and micro-entrepreneurs responsible for
managing the supplementary feeding program at the community level. A roster ofpre-qualified
small and micro-entrepreneurs and supervisors will be submitted to IDA no later than July 1,
1995. (para. 6.02h). The selection of the entrepreneurs and supervisors will be based on competitive
bidding, as spelled out in the Manual of Procedures. Local health structures will participate in the
project and provide primary care to pregnant and nursing women and children referred by the CNC
for periodic clinical exams and other basic health services. AGETIP has entered into an agreenent
with the MOH to ensure the collaboration of the local health structures in this endeavor.
4.04      Water Program. This component will be implernented under the supervision of
AGETIP, which will sub-contract the technical execution to local enterprises according to a schedule
of charges established by SONES. For the purpose of greater involvement of the beneficiary
population, the contracted enterprises will recruit workers and unskilled laborers from the targeted
neighborhoods. Procedures and practices known and widely applied in the framework of highly



25
labor-intensive community works previously undertaken by AGETIP will be applied. AGETIP will
enter into an agreement with SONES to ensure the respect of technical standards by the local
contractors. The signing of this agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, is a
condition ofproject effectiveness (para. 6.04d). In order to ensure proper coordination of activities
with the water sector, the Ministry of Hydraulics will be part of the National Commission for the
Fight against Malnutrition.
4.05      Rural Household Food Security. Local community personnel will be recruited to
implement and supervise this program, as done under the peri-urban component. However, more
detailed preparation of this component will be undertaken during the first and second year of project
implementation in order to target the rural areas where the project will intervene, in line with the
findings of the Senegal Poverty Assessment, to deternine the type of works, and to specify the most
appropriate time for this intervention. It is envisaged that this component will become fully
operational in the third year of project implementation. Disbursement on this component will be
conditional upon the approval by IDA of a plan of action and an investment program that will be
presented by AGETIP at the medium-term review of the project (para. 6.05).
4.06      Social Mobilization and IEC. NGOs or other private sector organizations will be
responsible for developing training modules and IEC materials (building on existing materials) and
for conducting the training of the small and micro-entrepreneurs and supervisors for the nutrition
centers. The Manual of Procedures provides detailed criteria for pre-qualification and selection of
these groups. Similar groups will also be hired to conduct: (i) IEC and certain monitoring and
evaluation functions; and (ii) research, including beneficiary studies to identify nutrition and food
security needs, which would serve as a basis for adjusting project planning and strategy development
during project implementation.
4.07      Monitoring and Evaluation System. An elaborate, yet simple, monitoring system has
been developed to check performance and efficiency of micro-entrepreneurs and supervisors. This
system will provide readily understandable information on project coverage and on the evolution of
the nutritional situation of children who come to the CNC (para. 4.08).
B. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.08      Monitoring will be implemented through (i) a management information system (MIS)
that provides feedback to each level; and, (ii) operations research. The MIS has already been
designed and builds upon a successful system in use by AGETIP for its public works activities. The
system operates as follows: (i) the CNCs will use a simple reporting form that is presented in the
Manual of Procedures to record their activities; (ii) the MOCs will input the records kept manually
by the CNCs and send them electronically via modem to AGETIP; (iii) selected performance
information on the centers will be transmitted to AGETIP's NMD by the supervisors (MOCs) of the
CNC on a monthly basis; (iv) the monitoring agent at AGETIP headquarters will process the
information received and submit all performance statistics to the NMD's manager, on a monthly
basis; (v) the performance of each CNC will then be compared to pre-established performance norms
and fed back by AGETIP to the CNC and the MOCs; and (vi) corrective measures will be
recommended for CNCs that show low perfornance. The norm for a CNC is determined in terms of
general attendance, coverage of children, number of children receiving the food supplement and key
growth monitoring, nutritional improvements of children (children grailuating after three months,
children graduating after six months, total children graduating); number of pregnant women entering
the program, number of pregnant and nursing women receiving supplement, number of clients
referred to health services, and coverage of relapses for past six months. Operations research will be



26
triggered, as needed, by questions raised throughout the supervision system. The system is set up so
as to facilitate impact evaluation and longitudinal performance studies of changing indicators on
nutritional status, on knowledge, attitudes and practices concerning nutrition, on hygiene and health,
and on the satisfaction of the population. In addition, the system will also allow the measuring of the
cost-effectiveness of the program at national and local levels. A series of ZOPP workshops will be
held during project implementation to assess progress, build consensus, and agree on the next course
of action with all concerned stakeholders from government to community leaders. The monitoring
system is described in detail in Annex VIII.
4.09      To ensure sustainability, the beneficiary population will continue to be involved in project
implementation. This will be done through (i) a yearly beneficiary assessment, the results of which will
be taken into account in relevant project components; and (ii) a monitoring system that requires
supervisors to visit beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries in order to identify potential problems and offer
suggestions. Every six months, the CNC's Local Steering Committee will be given information on
project progress and problems encountered, so that constraints can be assessed locally, and local
solutions sought. The District Steering Conmmittee will also be informed and will be asked to find
solutions that could not be found at the local level. Project sustainability is closely linked to
macroeconomic performance, namely that only through economic growth and cost-effective public
expenditures will the Government be able to take over the nutrition activities started under the project.
4.10      Evaluation indicators will consist of impact measures on both the beneficiaries and the
overall target population (Annex VIII). Sample cross-sectional surveys of project beneficiaries and non-
beneficiaries will be carried out yearly in three out of the ten cities to analyze the evolution of
malnutrition rates, household food insecurity, and access to water, and thus to estimate project impact
and opportunities for project improvement.
C. Procurement
4.11      The procurement procedures according to which AGETEP will select small contractors and
micro-entrepreneurs and award contracts are simplified procedures designed under the Bank's Public
Works and Employment projects and outlined in the current Manual of Procedures of AGETIP for small
contractors and the supplementary manual developed by AGETIP for micro-entrepreneurs under the
project. It is anticipated that al contracts for nutrition services wil be below CFAF 2.8 million
(US$5,000) annually and those for supervisory services for CFAF 4.8 million (US$10,000). AGETIP
will pre-qualify and maintain a roster of entrepreneurs eligible for National Competitive Bidding (LCB),
established according to procedures acceptable to IDA and detailed in the Manual of Procedures of the
roster will stay open during project execution so as to allow additional applications at any time. Large
firms are not likely to be interested in the tye and size of most activities proposed, but they will not be
excluded from participating in the process. The purpose of pre-qualification wil be to detennine the
micro-entrepreneurs who can demonstrate their ability to carry out the proposed nutrition programs
effectively and would, therefore, be eligible to bid.



27
Table 4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements*
(USS Million)
Procurement Method
Project Element               ICB           LCB         Other         NB.F.    TOTAL
WateT Program                                                                 2.8        2.8
Equipment                             1.2          0.4          0.1                      1.7
(1.2)        (0.4)        (0.1)                     (1.7)
Service Contracts at                                            7.8           1.8        9.6
____________________________                    ~~~~~~(7.8)  _ _ _ _     (7.8)
Consultant Services bl                                          6.1                      6.1
_________________________   _________           ~~~(6.1)                 (6.1)
Miscellaneous Operating Costs                                   2.1                      2.1
(2.1)                    (2.1)
Food                                                                                     5.2
PPF Advance                                       0.5                         5.2        0.5
_____________________________         ~(0.5)                                (0.5)
TOTAL                                 1.2          0.9          16.1          9.8        28.0
DA financed                          (1.2)        (0. 9)       (16.1)                   (18.2)
Cos are not of taxes and duties
Notus: Totals may na add up due to rounding;. Figures in parent   show IDA amoud and are fie oftax and duties.
N.BRF. = Not Bank-Financed Nutrition activities will be procured in accordance with AGETIPs Pwcedural Manual
(acceptable to IDA). Consulting sevices wiUl be procured according to IDA guidelineL
a/ For swvices provided by micro-a neur.
b/ For superviy servicas provided by NGOO and for ucdies and toeunical aiance by pivate fien or individuals.
4.12         For the delivery of nutrition services (including IEC services, referral services for
severely malnourished children, distribution of iron folate and ORT), procurement procedures will be
consistent with those acceptable for service contracts. These services will be contracted out to micro-
entrepreneurs. The core of the procurement procedure for micro-entrepreneurs expected to
participate in the nutrition program will be local advertisement of a proposed contract to service a
community nutrition center. All micro-entrepreneurs registered in the roster will be invited to bid and
deliver services under the supervision of NGOs. Those expected to participate comprise primarily
small community groups (such as women groups, community associations, GlEs and youth groups).
Qualification criteria for micro-entrepreneurs include formal registration as a legal entity and a
proven record of relevant community activity.
4.13         Procurement arrangements for the water works and rehabilitation of CNCs are designed
to address poverty alleviation objectives. These works will be sized so that they can be implemented
by small contractors, using simple, labor-intensive techniques already demonstrated by AGETIP.
The quality of the works performed will be ensured through technical supervision by qualified
engineering bureaus or individuals registered with AGETIP and under successfully tested AGETIP
procedures.
4.14         Contracts for equipment, vehicles and materials will be grouped into bid packages and
those in excess of USS200,000 will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB). AGETIP will use World Bank standard bidding documents. For such ICB, local



28
manufacturers will enjoy a preference margin of 15% or applicable custom duties, whichever is
lower. National competitive bidding (LCB), using procedures which have been found acceptable to
IDA, will be used for procurement involving contracts lower than US$200,000 but greater than US$
30,000, up to a total of US$0.4 million over the life of the project. Contracts below US$30,000 for
vehicles, small items of equipment and office supplies will be procured by local and/or international
shopping procedures acceptable to IDA with a minimum of 3 price quotations up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$0.1 million.
4.15      Consultant services for training, technical assistance, and project monitoring will be
procured according to IDA guidelines outlined in the "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrower
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency". This includes audits and accounting services,
capacity building, contract management by AGETIP and training of NGOs providing technical
advice and supervision to micro-entrepreneurs, nutrition monitoring and evaluation activities, and
implementation of a nutrition IEC program. Given the specific nature of these activities, contracts
will be awarded to institutions or consultants satisfactory to IDA on the basis of work programs and
terms of reference or in a competitive way from established pre-qualified rosters.
4.16      As the designated executing agency for the project, AGETIP will charge the project a
5% overhead-cost fee for the provision of overall management services. These services include
project management (preparation, scheduling, and implementation), supervision, legal counsel,
administration and office space. The project will benefit from AGETIP's umbrella, which will ensure
its independence and autonomy. The AGETIP management system has established a proven record
of low cost service (contract) delivery and independence of action in critical areas such as project
review and approval, disbursement of funds and implementation. Specifically, since its creation in
1989, AGETIP has proven its capacity to manage large numbers of contracts with small enterprises
in the building and public works sector, using social mobilization as a major instrument for project
implementation at the community level. To extend this capacity to the management of the activities
envisaged under the project, AGETIP will set up a Nutrition Management Division, comprising of a
Coordinating Director and one technical staff for each of the following areas: nutrition/health
services; water; training; IEC and social mobilization; and monitoring and evaluation.
4.17      Prior Bank review will be required for all contracts valued at more than US $200,000
equivalent. Prior Bank review will not apply to consultant services estimated to cost less than US$
100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals. However, this exception to prior review will not
apply to the terms of references of such contracts, to single-source hiring of firms, to assignment of a
critical nature as determined by IDA, and to amendment of contracts raising the contract value to
US$100,000 or more for firms and US$50,000 or more for individuals.
D. Disbursement
4.18      The project is expected to be implemented over a four-year period, with the closing date
set at lune 30, 2000, and the IDA credit disbursed over four years, according to the categories
shown in table 5. The estimated disbursement profile is shown in Annex X. The Credit is expected
to disburse ahead of the regional disbursement profile for population, health, and nutrition projects
because the project will be implemented through agents of the private sector. Disbursements will be
made on the basis of 100% of total expenditures free of direct and indirect taxes and duties for IDA's
share of the services linked to the nutrition program, the rural household food security program,
social mobilization and IEC program, training, and project management The Government's deposit
of an aggregate initial amount of not less than US$0.4 million equivalent in CFA Francs in
AGETIP 's account as its contribution for the firstyear is a condition ofproject effectiveness (para.



29
6.04b). In addition, assurances were given during negotiations that the Government deposit its
counterpartfunds at the beginning of each year ofproject implementation, i. e., July 1, 1996, July
1, 1997, and July 1, 1998 (para. 6.02i). It is understood that the percentages in Table 5 have been
calculated on the basis of the provisions 309 and 1091 of the Law 92-40 of July 9, 1992 of the
Government of Senegal, which exempt the goods and works to be financed from taxes and customs
duties levied by the Government of Senegal. If any change is made to this Law which has the effect
of levying taxes or customs duties on such goods or works, the percentages referred to above shall be
decreased in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions.
Table 5: Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES         AMOUNT           PERCENTAGE FINANCED
I  (USS Million)     (free of duties and taxes)
EquipmneTt                            1.4                    100%
Consultant Services (TA, training, studies)  13.7             100%
I PPF Advance                           0.5                    100%
|Unallocated                      |    2.6    _l
TOTAL                                 18.2
4.19         To expedite project implementation, a Special Account denominated in CFAF will
be opened at a commercial bank and operated on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The
authorized allocation will be CFAF 600 million, representing anticipated eligible expenditures
financed by IDA for a 4-month period. IDA will make an initial deposit of those amounts from the
proposed credit iunmediately upon credit effectiveness. Replenishment of the Special Account will be
made on the basis of full documentation, except for contracts valued at less than USS 100,000
equivalent, for which disbursements will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenses (SOE). In
such cases the relevant documentation will be retained by AGETIP for review by IDA supervision
missions and the project's external auditors.
E. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.20      The terms of reference and a list offirmsfor the selection of an external
accounting/auditingfirm andfor the design and implementation of accounting andfinancial
management system was presented to IDA prior to negotiations (para. 6.01). The arrangements
were reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations (para. 6.02c). The accounting system of
AGETIP will be revised to take into account the diversification of its operations. The adoption and
implementation of the accounting andfinancial management system and the employment of an
independent auditor to audit project records, accounts andfinancial statements will be conditions
of effectiveness (paras. 6.04e and f). Consolidated project accounts will be maintained by the
Agency. These accounts will be audited every six months by independent auditors acceptable to IDA
according to terms of reference agreed by IDA. The auditors will be appointed for a period of four
years. Auditors will express separate opinions on statements of expenditures and special accounts.
Audits will be carried out semi-annually and auditors' reports will be submitted to IDA within three
months of the close of each semester. During negotiations, assurances were given that AGET7P
will also submit every six months management and financial audits, and a technical audit will be
undertaken annually (6.02t). It will submit monthly progress reports and prepare an implementation
completion report (ICR) within six months of the closing date.



30
F. Supervision Plan
4.21      The project will be supervised every four months. The necessary staff inputs for
supervision will be as follows: 5 staffweeks in FY95, 18 in FY96, 18 in FY97, 18 in FY98, and 18
in FY99 for a total of 77 staffweeks. A detailed supervision plan is shown in Annex XI. Given the
need for close monitoring of the operation, there will be a mid-term evaluation during which ZOPP
workshops would be held in order to assess, inter alia, the targeting mechanism, cost-effectiveness,
and beneficiary participation, and the actions for the nutrition strategy. This mid-term evaluation will
also serve to make any necessary modifications to project implementation in close coordination with
all concerned stakeholders. Other ZOPP workshops will be held at the end of the project for
purposes of evaluation and design of future operations.
G. Environmental Impact
4.22      The overall environmental impact of the project is expected to be neutral to positive. The
environmental category is C. The impact of the small public works to be financed under the project,
such as the rehabilitation of community infrastructure, will be neutral on the environment.
Components such as the water program will have a positive impact on the environment by providing
potable water to the beneficianres.
H. Project Objective Categories
4.23      The proposed project is a poverty-targeted intervention, geared to halting a deterioration
in the nutritional status of the most vulnerable groups in targeted poor neighborhoods of Senegal,
selected on the basis of a poverty assessment. As such, it expects to reduce food insecurity in these
neighborhoods, and generate employment and income for community groups through the promotion
of small-scale activities. The project promotes the development of small and micro-entrepreneurs,
community participation, and the involvement of NGOs and local consultants in implementation, thus
placing key implementation into the hands of the target group population and thereby insuring long-
term sustainability. The project responds to the Government's objectives of human resource
development and poverty alleviation.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01      The project will have two main benefits. First, the imrnediate irnpact of the nutrition
program is intended to halt a deterioration in the nutritional status of the most vulnerable groups in
the poorest urban areas, estimated at a total target population of 469,000 (about 230,000
malnourished children under three years of age and 120,000 nursing and pregnant women receiving
food, growth monitoring and IEC services, and 1 19,000 mothers and children receiving only growth
monitoring and IEC services). Based on preliminary estimates the project is expected to reach about
30% of urban malnourished children in targeted areas. The project's nutrition education activities
should set in motion behavioral changes and adoption of better child-feeding practices, leading to
long-lasting nutritional improvement in children under three years. Through the water program,
increased access to safe drinking water should reduce the incidence of diarrhea and water-bome
diseases affecting the nutritional status of 174,000 residents in the targeted neighborhoods for the
first year of operation, and 522,000 beneficiaries for the subsequent years, totaling 696,000 over the
life of the project for this program. Thus, about 1.2 million persons will benefit from both programs.



31
As demonstrated during the pilot phase in neighborhoods where the CNC is close to a health facility,
the proposed project will also lead to an increased demand for and use of health services. An
additional benefit of the household food security and water programs will be the provision of growth
and development-oriented infrastructure in targeted rural and urban areas.
5.02      Second, the project will establish, for the first time, a local capacity to deliver
community-managed nutrition services with private sector efficiency, both in terms of management
and administrative cost containment. It will also contribute to the capacity building of NGOs by
providing training in the supervision of comrnunity nutrition centers and IEC methods to pre-selected
local NGOs. Finally, closer collaboration between NGOs and public health services will improve the
delivery of social programs geared to the most vulnerable households, and the capacity of local
groups to manage their social/poverty problems.
B. Risks
5.03      As the nutrition program will be carried out in the urban low-income areas of Senegal
and among some of its poorest people, many of them illiterate and innumerate, its implementation
will not be easy. The project will involve five specific risks. The first concerns the production of the
food supplement, since the enterprise selected by WFP for production enjoys a virtual monopoly.
Tlhe second risk is linked to the strong coordination required among the many stakeholders associated
with project implementation, which could impose a logistical problem that might undermine
AGETIP's efforts to meet project objectives efficiently and effectively. The third risk is that
implementation might be delayed by community mobilization, organization and training shortfalls.
The fourth risk is that the necessary nutrition-health coordination arrangements between AGETIP
and the Ministry of Health fall short of expectations. Finally, the project's administrative costs might
be higher than estimated thus endangering the program's sustainability.
5.04      To reduce the risk related to the sole source of food production,, WFP will attempt to
identify through local competitive bidding, alternative sources during the first year of operation.
Implementation risks will be mitigated by several measures. The project will be implemented on the basis
of a detailed Manual of Procedures and under a strictly organized schedule of supervision procedures,
thus ensuring attention to quality issues by all implementing bodies. In addition, starting from the pilot
phase, the program will expand towards full coverage only after organizational, management, and
technical program details have been sufficiently tested and adjusted to account for absorptive capacity
conditions in the field. The National Commission for the Fight Against Malnutrition constitutes the
strongest possible Government commitment in supporting AGETIP's community mobilization efforts.
Training and in-service training of large numbers of community private entrepreneurs and beneficiaries
are recognized as key elements for project success. Moreover, improved coordination with the health
system will be ensured by clearly defined contractual arrangements between AGETIP and the MOH.
Finally, AGETIP's contract management capabilities, supported by its strong management information
system, have proven to be guarantor for cost containment and will ensure sustaunability. Through this
approach to social services provision, the traditional role of Government as a provider of public services
will be replaced by one by in which Government provides those services in terms of planning,
programmning and budgeting, but leaves delivery to the more efficient and cost-effective agents of the
private sector.



32
VI. AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      Before negotiations, the Government provided evidence of (i) a draft of the amendment to
the Convenhon to be signed with AGETIP to include the new services to be provided by the Nutrition
Management Division (para. 4.01); (ii) a draft of the Manual of Procedures (para. 4.01); (iii) the terms of
reference and a short list of firms for the selection of an external accounting/audit firm and for the design
and implementation of accounting and financial management systems (para. 4.20); (iv) a signed
Convention between the Ministry of Health and AGETIP (para. 3.09); and (v) the nomination of the
director for the Nutrition Management Division (para 4.01).
6.02      During negotiations, agreements were reached on:
a.    the amendment to the Convention between AGETIP and Government to include the new
services to be provided by the Nutrition Management Division (para. 4.01);
b.    the draft of the Manual of Procedures, including bidding document and sample contracts for
the Special Fund (para. 3.20 and 4.01);
c.    the terms of reference and a short list of firms for the selection of an external
accounting/audit firm and for the design and implementation of accounting and financial
management systems (para. 4.20);
d.    the management of the Nutrition Management Division to be the responsibility of a person
acceptable to IDA at all times (para. 4.01);
e.    the submission by AGETIP to IDA of the proposed areas of intervention for the second, third
and fourth year of the project for the nutrition and water components, no later than March
1996, March 1997 and March 1998 (paras. 3.13 and 3.23);
f.    the submission of audit reports (management and financial every six months and technical
audit annually) and of annual review reports (para. 4.20);
g.    the submission of a detailed training program for entrepreneurs and supervisors and the EEC
program for beneficiaries to IDA for review no later than July 1, 1995 (pam. 3.35);
h.    the submission to IDA of a roster of pre-qualified small and micro-entrepreneurs and
supervisors no later than July 1, 1995 (para. 4.03);
payment of Government counterpart funds by July 1, 1996 for the second year, by July 1,
1997 for the third year, and by July 1, 1998 for the fourth year (para. 4.18);
j.    an assessment will be carried out during the mid-term review to deternine the feasibility of
separating the NMD from AGETIP to make it a stand-alone agency (pam. 4.01);
k.    the terms of reference for base-line and impact evaluation studies on measuring the impact of
the project to be submitted to IDA no later than July 1, 1995 (para. 3.37);
1.    annual monitoring indicators and supervision guides to be subritted to IDA no later than
July 1, 1995 (pam 3.37);



33
m.    terms of reference of a study for updating the national nutrition action plan to be submitted
to IDA no later than July 31, 1996 (para. 3.21); and
n.    the action plan to implement the rural household food security program two months prior to
the mid-term review by WFP and IDA (para. 3.29).
6.03      The condition for Board presentation is signing of the amendment to the Convention
between the Government of Senegal and AGETIP (para. 4.01).
6.04      The conditions of project effectiveness are:
a.    WFP's confirmation in terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and reflected in WFP's
Grant Agreement, of the availablity of funds to purchase the local ingredients for the
purposes of the supplementary feeding program (para. 3.16);
b.    Government's deposit of an aggregate initial amount of not less than US$0.4 million
equivalent in CFA Francs in AGETIP's account as its contribution for the first year of
project implementation (para. 4.18);
c.    appointment of the key staff of the Nutrition Management Division by AGETIP (para. 4.01);
d.    signing of an agreement between AGETIP and SONES for the purposes of implementing the
water program, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 4.04);
e.    adoption and implementation by AGETIP of accounting and financial management system
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.20); and
f.    employment of independent auditors acceptable to IDA for the audit of the project records,
accounts, and financial statements (para. 4.20).
6.05      The conditions of disbursements on the rural food security program component will be
IDA's approval of a plan of action (para. 3.29) and an investment program to be presented
by AGETIP (para. 4.05) at the mid-term review of the project.
6.06      Recommendation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 11.7 million (US$18.2 million equivalent) to the
Republic of Senegal on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



34
ANNEX I
Page I of 2
LESSONS FROM NUTRITION PROJECTS IN SENEGAL
AND OTHER COUNTRIES
Senegal
1 .       From 1973 to 1988, a supplementarv feeding program, the Programme de Protection
Nutrntonnelle et Sanitaire (PPNS), was carried out with the assistance of Catholic Relief Services
(CRS). The PPNS established nutnrtion centers throughout the country, mainly in rural areas (less
than 10% in cities). The number of centers increased dramatically from 37 in 1973 to 430 in 1984.
The CRS/Senegal was responsible for food procurement, the collection of fees from mothers and the
general administration of the program. The SANAS (Food and Applied Nutrition Service of Senegal
of the Ministry of Health) supervised the program, and Cathwel/Senegal supervised the program and
food distribution and inspection of feeding centers. The health posts and feeding centers were
managed locally by health committees, comprised of men only. The centers were usually run by
medical technicians, nurses, nurses aides, community health workers, and mothers' committees.
Most workers of the centers were Government employees.
2.        The services provided by the centers were pre- and post-natal supplementary feeding,
growth monitoring, nutrition education and food supplementation for children under 5 years of age.
In 1987, the supplementary feeding was discontinued, thus leaving simply growth monitoring,
resulting in a drop of beneficiaries from 152,200 mothers and children in 1985 to 100,000 in 1987,
and to 97,800 between January and September 1988. The reasons for this drop in attendance are in
part linked to the high opportunity cost of mothers' time, especially since the small fee that mothers
were asked to contribute to the PPNS (about USS0.67/month) was mandatory, and to the quality of
health services provided by the health centers, was inadequate as an incentive for mothers to bring
their children. According to a 1983 evaluation, the successes of the program were (i) a high coverage
of inmmunization for children in the program; (ii) better use of health services by children in the
program; (iii) lower infant and child mortality rates for participating communities; (iv) a large
number of paramedical personnel trained in the use of growth cards; (v) lower incidence of malaria
armong children enrolled in the program due to higher usage of prophylactics; and (vi) and increase in
the use of oral rehydration salts in the participating areas. Some of these results, however, may have
been due to the fact that children in the program had better access to health care services than non-
participants. The program was not renewed also because of the following poor performance
indicators:
only 6-1 1% of the calories were actually consumed by the beneficiaries;
take-home rations lasted fifteen days rather than one month;
the monthly food supplement received was much lower than the planned one (in 1981,
each child received 5.5 kg and in 1982, 3.8 kg, instead of the planned 7.5 kg) either due
to management or distribution problems;
10% of the most at-risk households were unaware of the program or did not participate
in it;
although 90% of the children under 2 years of age entered the program, 20% stayed until
3 years of age or more, thus diminishing the chances for younger at-risk children to enter
the program.



35
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
The causes identified for this poor performance include:
the non-targeting of lower-income groups, since distribution depended on the location of
the health center (90% were located at a health facility),
the take-home rations could be easily sold on the market, thus allowing large leakages
(the ration was composed of 3.75 kg of corn-soy-milk and 3.75 kg of soy-fortified
cornmeal or soy-fortified sorghum); and
the perception of the food as a new source of income (the food represented an income
transfer of about 18% of household income) than a way of promoting changes in
children's feeding patterns.
Conclusions
3.        These conclusions are based on lessons learned from past supplementary feeding
projects (the IDA-financed Tanil Nadu project in India, an emergency feeding program in
Zimbabwe, a national program of food distribution and feeding in Botswana, a supplementary
feeding program in the Gambia, the IDA-financed Applied Nutrition Education Project in the
Dominican Republic, the PROSALUD - health - project in Bolivia, and the PANFAR project -
project for Food and Family Nutrition - in Peru):
targeting of children under two years of age is necessary to prevent malnutrition in
poor areas; while malnourished children should be targeted individually to provide
therapeutic care;
supplementary feeding of children: food supplements should not replace the meals
prepared by the family; nutrition education should accompany the supplementation
program; and health follow-up should be provided simultaneously with the feeding
program;
supplementary feeding of pregnant women: has an effect among rural women (urban
women having less of a caloric deficit and less energy expenditures), especially if
provided during the rainy season; should cover the last trimester of pregnancy; should be
accompanied by ironlfolate supplements as well as anti-malaria prophylaxis; and should
include nutrition and family planning messages;
supplementary feeding of nursing women: target all poor nursing mothers; should be
accompanied by iron/folate supplements and anti-malaria prophylaxis; should provide
nutrition and family planning messages; and
IEC and community participation are crucial: mothers need to undentand and accept
the principle of targeted supplementation in order to reduce the risk of the re-sale of the
food supplement, its leakage to other family members, and its substitution for the
customary food ration. Local committees need to be involved in the food supplement
program from the inception, thus ensuring that the program is managed at the
community level. The committee should be kept informed of the program's progress at
regular intervals so that it understands fully any changes made.



36
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
COMMUNITY NUTRITION PROGRAM
1.       The nutrition program will be implemented by micro-entrepreneurs (MICs), organized
in local associations, such as GIEs. However, only those communities showing a willingness to have
this program will benefit. The MCIs will be supervised by NGOs which will report directly to
AGETIP. Contracts will be provided to NGOs for carrying out the training, supervision and
evaluation of the program. Modules and guidelines for training, supervision and evaluation have
been developed by AGETIP and tested during the pilot phase.
Community Nutrition Centres (CNC):
2.           Community micro-entrepreneurs will be trained to provide the following services:
1) Identification of malnoursihed children
2) Child growth monitoring and promotion
3) Referral of acute cases of malnutrition and of women for family planning to health
centers
4) Distribution of a food supplement
5) IEC
6) Basic record keeping
7) Home visits
Each MIC will have a staff of four who will be trained to carry out these activities and
who will handle a maximum of 350 persons per week. This workload will also allow the MIC to
undertake home visits to malnourished children. After one to two years of operation, it is expected
that MICs will have more time for home visits and could also engage in other community services,
such as literacy or farnily planning.
3.        AGETIP developed "Guidelines for the Model Community Nutrition Center", training
manuals, a "Supervision Guide" and a "Home Visits Guide". These documents will be given to each
MIC. Any entrepreneur will be able to apply for training as long as it satisfies the selection criteria
and accepts to work under the standard contract conditions that will be presented. Standard and
simple registration and accounting forms are included in the Manual of Procedures.
4.        Growth of children will be monitored based on weight-for-age, and plotted on the growth
curve to complement what is already being done by the health structures. Salter scales will be used to
measure the weight.
5.        A model contract between AGETIP and the MIC has been drafted. This contract
specifies that the CNC should not be used for other purposes than nutrition activities of the project,
unless specifically authorized by AGETIP. The Terms of Reference of the MIC include weekly home
visits to children who have been identified as children with nutrition problems (criteria for this are in
the "Home Visit Guide for the CNC staff'), and periodic meetings with local steering committee.



37
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 9
Selection of Beneficiaries
6.        The following are entry and exit criteria to be applied arnong the population in the target
areas:
- for pregnant women: any pregnant woman who lives in the target area can enter the prograrn
during the last trimester of her pregnancy until birth. Initially the program will be available
to women who are pregnant for the first time. (services received: IEC, referral to health
center and food).
- for nursing women: a womnan can enter the prograrn if she has a malnourished child between 6
and 24 months of age (thereafter a woman cannot be considered lactating) or if she has a
child less than 6 months old (services received: [EC and food).
- for children: a child aged 6 to 36 months can enter the program for 6 months if it is
malnourished (in the yellow or red zones); if it is a sibling 6-36 months old of a
malnourished child; or if it is well nourished (in the green zone) but has not gained weight for
two consecutive months. The child will exit after six months if it has achieved normal
weight, or has gained weight during the last three weighings. If a child fails to gain weight
between three weight monitoring sessions, he will continue the program but be referred to a
health center (services received: growth monitoring, food (if malnourished), referral to health
center).
- siblings of malnourished children will also be admitted as long as they are 6-36 months old
(services received: growth monitoring, food, referral to health center).
Children will not be eligible to receive the food supplement if they are not accompanied by their care-
taker who must attend the EEC session.
7.        For the first year of the project, the AGETIP nutritionists will be responsible, at the end
of the 6 months, to identify and advise beneficiaries who can continue in the program and those who
cannot. For the years thereafter, MOCs will be identified and trained to do this work.
8.,       A census of the target population in selected locations will be undertaken (i) to validate
the data base used for targeting, and (ii) to screen under-three year old children for malnutrition,
using age, weight and height indicators. Malnourished children will receive the food supplement, and
will be monitored by the MOC's if they fail to continue the program. The census will be undertaken
by a private company which will be requested to use the CNC members as surveyors for the census.
A technical consultant will be asked to do the quality control of this census, so as to ensure that the
data can be used for evaluation purposes. Data on each family of the target area will be
computerized and families "at risk" of malnutrition will be identified. Malnourished children who do
not come to the CNC will receive home visits from the CNC staff to enourage the mother to
participate in the nutrition program. Each child who is identified by the census group as a
malnourished child or who is less dtan three years and belongs to a fiunily with a malnourished child
will receive a "program card" valid for 6 months. Each time the child goes to the CNC, this card will
be stamped with the date and the name of CNC.



38
ANNEX n
Page 3 of 9
Link with the Health System
9.        An agreement between the MOH and AGETIP has been signed which spells out the role
of each institution. This Agreement states that at least once a month medical personnel will visit the
CNCs to carry out the following activities: discuss any problems, especially concerning referrals to
health facilities (referral will mainly be for sick or severely mnalnourished children and women for
family planning services); coordinate the choice of IEC messages; social mobilization for health
events that will occur in the community.
10.       The MOH/AGETIP agreement also defines how the local Health Comminttee will ensure
that a minimum drug package will be made available to the target group through the CNC, following
the MOH cost-recovery system and standard treatment. The drugs concerned are part of the national
essential drug list, namely: vitamin A, iron and folate, deworming drug, and chloroquine.
*At the local level, the Health Committee will be involved in distributing certain drugs to the
beneficiaries through the CNC. In addition, the CNC will systematically refer beneficiaries to the
nearest health infrastructure. The health personnel from the closest health infrastructure will visit the
CNC at least once a month. The local steering committee will have a sunmmary of the Agreement
between AGETIP and the MOH in order to understand the role of each organization.
*At the district level: the District-Medical Officer is part of the District Steering Committee.
At the national level: the MOH is part of the National Commission. The SANAS will be constantly
informed of the nutrition program progress and will receive a copy of data base.
Supervisory NGO (MOC)
11.       An NGO (MOC) will be selected according to criteria spelled out in the Manual of
Procedures and will supervise about 10 CNCs. A training program has been developed for these
MOCs and a Supervision Guide as well as a Home Visit Guide will be developed before project
effectiveness. The MOC will undertake a weekly supervision of each CNC. A contract between
AGETIP and the MOC has been designed along with specific terms of reference. The MOC will
receive the same training as the MICs, plus additional training on supervision. Home visits will be
undertaken weekly by the MOC to at least two households selected at random among the families
whose names appear in the beneficiary file to check if they received the services, and to at least two
households who have abandoned the program to find out the causes of cessation. Periodic meetings of
all NGOs with AGETIP will be organized.
Training in Nutrition
12.       Each MOC and CNC staff will receive the sarne training, provided by training
consultants. This will ensure that each of the four CNC staff can serve as back-up, ifnecessary. The
MOH will be involved in the quality control of training.
13.       The training modules which have been developed during the pilot phase will be revised
and for project implementation the following modules will be printed:



39
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
General presentation of the project: with project objectives, target population, the different actors
and their contracts;
* Techniques for welcoming the population;
* Nutrition: basic nutrition, breastfeeding promotion, weaning practices and frequency
of feeding, prevention and treatment of diarrhea, growth monitoring and promotion
(using weight for age and how to use the growth chart); food demonstration in the
CNC, referral of children to the health system and how to coordinate with the health
system;
* Inter-personal communication techniques: social mobilization and nutrition education;
* The management information system: monitoring and supervision of a CNC data collection and
analysis; techniques for; supervision by the MOC; home visits by MIC and MOC; the computer
system used; feedback to the mother and to the community;
* Stock management: general concepts; quality control; record keeping; safety.
Training will be practical and will include role plays. Yearly refresher course will be provided to
both MIC and MOC.
Food Supplement
14.       The food will: (i) serve as a supplement to malnourished infants aged 6-36 months and
their siblings 6-36 months old and to pregnant and lactating women selected from the poorest
neighborhoods; (ii) act as income transfer to the households enabling them to improve their food
security during critical periods; (iii) induce those in need of assistance to attend the CNCs; and (iv)
demonstrate to the recipients that use of nutritional supplements will accelerate recovery from
malnutrition and thereby reinforce the nutrition education component (an activity which will attempt
to alter the behavior of mothers in term of weaning food preparation and child feeding).
15.       AGETIP will execute the project under the established procedures of delegated authority
involving NGOs, women groups, economic interest groups, youth associations, etc. The
implementation will be guided by a Manual of Procedures which will cover all the necessary topics
including the contractual arrangements between AGETIP and the MOH.
16.       WFP will provide a dry-blended food which will be produced locally based on local
cereals, cowpeas, and groundnuts. The mix will be fortified with imported vitamins and minerals to
contribute to the alleviation of some of the existing micronutrient and food deficiencies and sweetened
with sugar in order to increase self-targeting (so that the blended food cannot be used as a family
food but only as a porridge). Each beneficiary attending the centers will receive 700 granis of
supplementary food per week during six months.
Requirements for Supplementary Food
17.       The international food and nutrition community has considered the basic requirements
for foods for older infants (6-12 months) and young children (1-3 years) and through exensive
deliberation arrived at guidelines regarding raw mnaterials, processing, formulation, hygiene,



40
ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 9
packaging and labeling. While the guidelines generated by various groups have differed somewhat,
and all the guidelines provide flexibility to account for variations in local conditions and local
regulations, these intemational guidelines provide a basis for identification of a suitable supplement
for use in the nutrition program.
18.       The guidelines offered by the Codex Alimentarius Commission in 1991 and those
suggested by WFP/UNICEF product specifications for locally manufactured fortified blended foods
were used to select ingredients, develop a formula, and suggest a manufacturing process for the
product which will be used in the program. In addition, it was concluded that a single product should
be used in the program which will be suitable for use as a food supplement by all beneficiaries
(in&nts, children, and pregnant and lactating women).
19.       The food should be based on locally available ingredients to the maximum extent
possible and should utilize millet as the cereal base for the product and cowpeas/groundnuts as the
principal sources of supplementary protein and energy.
20.       The groundnuts and cowpeas will be roasted to reduce the amount of antinutritional
fctors (trypsin inhibitors and other heat sensitive factors normal present in legumes). Roasting
equipment suitable for treating groundnuts and cowpeas are available in Senegal and WFP
consultants have identified conditions suitable for operating these roasters to treat the products.
21.       The cereal component (millet) will not need to be precooked. Precooking for cereals is
generally undertaken when it is necessary to increase the caloric density of porridge (by disrupting
the starch so that less water is needed to prepare the food) or reduce the time necessary to cook the
product. However precooking can be expensive in terms of capital costs (e.g., up to USS 1.0 million
for an extrusion cooking system to produce 2000/3000 tons per year). Operating costs are also
expensive (USS50-100 per ton). Furthermore, precooking changes the textural characteristics of the
prepared food to some extent and therefore could result in diminished acceptability among persons
accustomed to consuming products made from unprecooked flours, such as those in the project.
Based on these factors, particularly the high capital costs and the lack of need for improved caloric
density and shortened cooking time, it was recommended not to precook the cereal.
22.       Because vitamin and mineral deficiencies are expected to be prevalent among the
beneficiaries, available research and studies suggest that imported vitamins and minerals be used in
the product to provide about 2/3 of the recommended daily allowance.
23.       The supplement should be suitable for consumption by infants and children during two
(2) supplementary feedings when prepared with a traditional recipe used for that age group,
specifically a porridge.
24.       The food should be suitable for manufacture at low cost by existing Senegalese food
processors with little or no additional investment. Preferably, the product should also be suitable for
manufacture by small enterprises at the local level, should be processed, packaged and distributed in
such a way as to minimize insect infestation and avoid hardous contaminants including pathogenic
microorganisms such as E. coli and toxic substances such as aflatoxin.



41
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 9
Ingredients and Formulation of the Supplement
25.       Based on the general requirements outlined above, in September 1994 a WFP nutrition
consultant selected a set of ingredients, a formulation and a manufacturing procedure which provided
a basis for producing a food supplement suitable for use in the project. The ingredients and
formulation were:
Ingredient                            Proportion (%)
Pearled millet flour                            55.0
Roasted, dehuUed cowpeas                        23.6
Roasted, deskinned peanuts                      11.0
Sugar                                           10.0
Vitamins (A, C, B 1, B2, B 12,                   0.1
Niacin, Folic acid)
Minerals (calcium, zinc, iron)                   0.3
100.0
26.       The millet, cowpeas and groundnuts are all produced in Senegal and in amounts
sufficient to supply blended food for the nutrition prograrn. Sugar is also produced in the country but
costs substantially more than imported sugar. Consequently, WFP will import the sugar. Likewise,
if the prices of millet and cowpeas reach unaffordable limits, WFP will import them from
neighboring countries thus also promoting triangular transactions. The vitamin and mineral pre-mix
is not produced locally and will be imported.
27.       The blended food will provide the following amounts of protein, fat, fiber and energy per
100 grams:
Property                             Amount
As is (7% moisture)          Dra basis (0%)
Protein (g.)                 15.0                    16.2
Fat (g.)                      7.5                     8.2
Fiber (g.)                    1.9                     2.1
Energy (kcal.)              370.0                   401.0
28.       Based on linited tests, the caloric density of porridge made from the product is in the
range of 80-90 kcal per 100 ml of cooked food. While this caloric density is somewhat lower than the
100 kcal value recomunended in the guidelines, it is deemed sufficient. The caloric density can be
raised by increasing the proportion of groundnut or sugar or by decreasing the amnount of millet.
However, these changes would either increase cost, lead to excessive fat level or increase the need for
inports. Based on the above facts, it has been decided that the benefits do not merit the negative
consequences.



42
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
29.       The 100 gram per day ration will then provide each beneficiary 15 grams of protein and
370 kcal. per day through two supplementary feedings of about 220 ml each (7.7 ounces). This
supplement will provide 25-40 percent of the recommended daily allowance of energy and 65-75
percent of the allowance of proteins for older infants and young children. These levels are deemed
appropriate for malnourished children selected as beneficiaries of the project.
30.       With respect to processing, it has been decided that the groundnuts and cowpeas should
be roasted to inactivate the antinutritional factors and it was also recommended that the groundnuts
be selected and processed to avoid contamination with aflatoxin (product of mold growth that is
carcinogenic and which has an upper limit of 10 parts per billion in groundnuts in Senegal).
31.       Tests undertaken with a local groundnut processor demonstrated that hand sorted and
de-skinned groundnuts should contain less than 3 ppb of aflatoxin. Therefore, the contribution of
aflatoxin to the product by the groundnuts should be less than I ppb.
32.       The amount of product required for distribution in the CNCs varies throughout the
course of the project depending on the number of beneficiaries being served. A total of 350,000
beneficiaries will be served during the project, thus the total requirement for food during the four
year project life is estimated at 6,370 tons. Likewise, because the maximum number of beneficiaries
is 110,000 during the fourth year, the maximum annual requirement for food supplement is 2002
tons and this will occur during the last year of the project's life. Consequently, the maximun
manufacturing capacity needed is 2002 tons per year or about 167 tons per month.
Manufacturing Procedure for the Food Supplement
33.       A sirnple, inexpensive process for manufacturing the food supplement will be used
during which the dry ingredients listed above will be mixed, ground to a powder with a particle size
less than one millimeter, then re-mixed with the vitamins and minerals, and finally packaged in 40 kg.
bags for distribution to the CNCs.
34.       A group of Senegalese food processors have been identified who collectively have the
capacity to manufacture the product. Agrifa SA of Fatick was found to be a potential supplier of
low-aflatoxin roasted groundnut and roasted, dehulled cow peas, while Moulins Sentenac/Dakar
could supply the pearl millet, the final mix, and bag the product.
35.       Sentenac reported to WFP that it believes it can provide the amount of product required
for the pilot phase of the project (24 tons per month), but will require additional equipment to
increase the capacity to manufacture at the maximum rate required during project implementation
(167 tons per month). However, Sentenac apparently requires a definite, long-term commitment for
procurement of product from the project before it will invest in changes in its processing system.
36.       The cost of the blended food is expected to be within the normal range of this type of
food produced in other countries and within the availability of WFP fiuds that could be committed
for this purpose.



43
ANNEX 11
Page 8 of 9
37.       In sununary, the basic process recommended should be suitable for the manufacturing of
the product and local manufacturers should be capable of resolving their technical problems when
they are assured that they will be productive participants in the project.
Procurement of the Food Supplement
38.       WFP will procure the required amounts of product for the project from local
manufacturers. Several local food processors have participated in manufacturing the food supplement
during the pilot phase of the project and it is expected that they will maintain interest as production
increases to a total of 6,370 metric tons over the life of the project. However, of the participating
processors no single one is currently capable of undertaking all of the processing steps. Furthermore,
no manufacturer outside the present group has as yet been identified as potential participant in
manufacture. Accordingly, the present small number of processors represents a potential risk in the
supply of product for the project.
39.       WFP intends to take several steps to minimize this risk during procurement. First WFP
wili use a competitive bidding process for procurement to attempt to stimnulate interest by other
manufacturers. Call for bids will include requests not only for the complete product but also for
individual components. Second, WFP will identify one or more alternative formulations for the
product which will enable it to substitute ingredients which might not be available at competitive
prices in a given season (e.g. it might be possible to replace groundnuts with a combination of
groundnut oil and millet). And thirdly, WFP will reserve a portion (up to 25%) of the amount of
product required for procurement from small producers or micro-entrepreneurs who might initially be
partially mobilized as an alternative source of supply but be completely mobilized to supply the full
requirements, if the principal suppliers fail. These options will be explored and developed with a
view not only to reduce current procurement risks but also to lay the basis for potential future
smaWmicro-enterprise production for ensuring project sustainability.
40.       WFP in collaboration with AGETIP and ITA will develop product and production
standards, procurment terms and issue requests for bids for the product to be delivered after the pilot
phase is completed.
Packaging and Distribution of the Food Supplement
41.       The blended food will be packed and transported by WFP to CSA stores and, as needed,
distributed in small quantities to CNCs where stocks will be maintained in secure store rooms. Each
recipient will receive a 700 gr. ration of blended food weeldy. Distribution will be carried out by
CNC personnel using measuring cups designed to deliver 700 gr. of product.
42.       Each recipient or recipient group (eligible family members) will be issued a 2 or 5 liter
plastic canister with a tight fitting lid in which to store the blended food. The 2-liter container will be
used for one ration and the 5-liter one for two or more rations. Separate canisters for women and
children will be identified by color and printed logos as having been issued by the project, and will
also bear printed messages to help mothers use the product effectively. The canisters will be given to



44
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
the mothers the first day of distribution and are durable enough to be used continuously throughout
their participation in the project to receive the weekly food rations.
43.        If the canisters are lost or destroyed, the beneficiaries are expected to buy replacements
from the center at cost. The use of this type of containers is expected to reduce packaging costs
substantially, as compared with delivery of the product in 700 gr. plastic bags. Furthermore, the
canisters should provide an effective barrier against insect infestation and against moisture and
spillage.
Quality Assurance for the Food Supplement
44.        A specific plan of action for quality assurance of the food supplement will be required to
guarantee the manufacture and distribution of the supplement according to the specifications outlined
above. To meet this need, a Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) system according to
Codex Alimentarius guidelines has been developed by ITA. This system will then be incorporated by
WFP into the procurement specifications and production operations.
NUMBER OF BENEFICIARIES AND TONS PER YEAR
TIME    CHILDREN   MOTHERS    TOTAL    RATnONS '        METONS
YEAR I      31,000     19,000    50,000    1,300,000       910
YEAR 2      59,000     31,000    90,000    2,340,000      1,638
YEAR 3      67,000     33,000    100,000    2,600,000     1,320
YEAR 4      73,S00     37,000    110,000    2,860,000     2,002
TOTAL       230,800    120,000    350.000    9,1000        ,70



45
ANNEX III
Page I of 3
TARCETING
1.        The project has incorporated the recommendations of the Bank's Assessment of Living
Conditions (World Bank, 1994) on improving the targeting of the poor, namely (i) taking a census of
the beneficiaries in the target neighborhoods by the community-based groups under the supervision of
a survey specialist; (ii) using beneficiary assessments to monitor the impact of the project, so that
appropriate adjustments can be introduced in a timely fashion; (iii) intervening in the poorest areas
which often do not benefit from public services; and (iv) increasing the involvement of local
conmuunity groups and NGOs to carry out and supervise activities. The project will adopt the
principles of AGETIP in contracting out all activities to community-based groups.
2.        The project has adopted four types of targeting and food-eligibility criteria: site
selection/geographic targets; (peri-urban poverty districts); demographics (pregnant and nursing
women, children aged 6-36 months); nutritional status of children (malnourished, no weight gain, "at
risk" children/siblings of malnourished children); and food characteristics (choice of a "self-targeting"
food generally unappealing to adult males because of traditional food habits). As to demographic
and nutritional targeting of the nutrition program, see Annex II for details on entry and exit criteria.
ln terms of geographic targeting, the nutrition and water programs will intervene in the poorest
neighborhoods of urban centers. This targeting will be based on the results of the 1992 household
budget survey (ESP), which defined poor households as those whose average per capita monthly
expenditure level was below the cost of a food basket equivalent to 2400 calories per day. Based on
this definition, 33% of the Senegalese population are poor, of which roughly one-fourth are in the
urban areas (nearly 550,000). Given the recent iznpact of the parity change, the high vulnerability of
most urban households to poverty, and the growing urban population, however, it is most likely that
these figures are now low - a hypothesis which appears to be supported by pilot-phase findings
concerning the prevalence of child malnutrition. The ESP breaks down the population into 8000
"census districts", thus permitting a detailed poverty profile of all neighborhoods. In this project, the
targeting of the poorest urban neighborhoods will be generally based on the following criteria: the
poverty level (at least 20% of the population is poor) and the population density (the population
totals at least 2000 persons if at least 10% of the population is poor), but will vary slightly by region.
For demographic targeting, a census will be conducted within the targeted neighborhoods before the
opening of the CNC in order to arrive at a list of potential beneficiaries (Table 1).
3.            For the first year of the project, the criteria for the selection of the zones are the
poverty level and the presence of an AGETIP office. Accordingly, three regions have been targeted -
- Dakar, Kaolack and Ziguinchor (Attachmnent A). More specifically, the following urban areas will
be covered: Pikine and Guediawaye in the region of Dakar, Kaolack and Diourbel in the region of
Kaolack, aznd the city of Ziguinchor in the region of Ziguinchor. The criteria for selecting the
neighborhoods of Pikine and Gu6diawaye are: a poverty level of at least 25% and a total targeted
population of at least 2000 persons. For the less populated region of Kaolack, the criteria are: a
poverty level of 18% and a total targeted population of at least 1500 persons. For Ziguinchor which
recorded high levels of poverty, the criteria are a poverty level of at least 30% and a total targeted
population of minimum 1500 persons. In order to respect the number of beneficiaries estimated for
the first year, certain neighborhoods of the region of Dakar with a poverty level of 25% will benefit
from the project as of the second year. On the other hand, one neighborhood of Diourbel with a
poverty level of less than 15% will be retained in the first year so as to continue the program begun
under the pilot phase. It should be noted that the water prograrn will intervene in these neighborhoods



46
ANNEX m
Page 2 of 3
over the first year of the project. The selection of targeted areas for the second, third and fourth year
of the project will be determined annually since project activities will be phased in gradually. Based
on these criteria, it is estimnated that the targeted population in the 21 selected neighborhoods will
total 50,000 persons in the first year, who will be eligible for supplemental feeding growth
monitoring and IEC activities. It is assumed that the centers will also offer monthly growth
monitoring for children that are not malnourished and EEC activities for their mothers, estimated at
17,000 persons (based on the capacity of the CNCs to handle extra IEC activities). Over the life of
the project, the number of beneficiaries receiving weekly services (food supplement, growth
monitoring, and [EC activities) is 350,000 persons and an additional 119,000 persons will receive
growth monitoring and IEC activities on a monthly basis, totalling 469,000 beneficiaries, and nearly
400 CNCs will operate (Table 1).
Table 1: Nutrition Progrm - Beneflciaries and Centen by Year
Beneficiaries               Year I      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4        Total
Receive Food SuDO. & Services/wk
Children                                31 000      59 000       67 000       73 000      230 000
Nursing mothers and First Pregnancy
Women                                   19 000      31 000       33 000       37 000       120 000
Sub-total                             so0000       90 000      100 000      110 000      350 000
Receive Monthly Services Onld
Children                    -           8 500       15 300       17 000       18 700       59 500
Mothers                                 8 500       15 300       17 000       18 700       59 500
TOTAL BENEFICIARES                      67 000      120 600     134 000      147 400      469 000
Number of new centers                     72          107         104           114         397
Number of old centers                                  72         179          283
Total number of opened centers            72          179         283          397
Aimmptiom:
. The urban population covered by the project is expected to rie by 4% per year, refleding Sealas urban pSth rate.
. The pilot phae indicated an infant maluition rate of 30% in the rgted popultioL
15% of the total project popultion is bdweu 0-3 yean of ae and another 15% ae prpant women (each woman
estimated to have 6 children)
Women eligible only becaa of their pregancy Aabi will receive thee mont of ration (one4half the nomal period)
20% of the childrin who aer the propam will require an additional six month of food sppleme.
. Not all malnourished chiddrena in the progam are seae either because some ar over 24 months ad unlikely to
be breaded, or because a mother dao  not to breaueed.
. Moben wi chdilden und 6 moa of ag will receive the food suppleme. if tbey ae breafeeding
. Sice the avage bth pingis 22.4 month in uwea, it isimated tt tere will bea  sibling foreac  malnourideild.
4.           The project aims at increasing its coverage of malnourished children in urban areas from
16% in Year I to 58% in Year 4. According to the 1992 EPS, malnutrition among urban children
was 22.4% (stunting)-and 16.9% (wasting); the corresponding values for rural areas were 33.6% and
24.8%. The pilot-phase results, based on the arn-circumference indicator and the weight-for-height
indicator put moderate to severe malnutrition at 30-31/. The estimates of tbh number of
malnourished children in urban areas are based on an assumed malnutrition prevalence of 24/e, or
mid-way between the low ESP pre-devaluation estimate of 16.9% and the high prvalence found in
the pilot-phase neighborhoods. These estimates will be kept under review during project
implementation, and coverage targets will accordingly be revised.



47
ANNEX [II
Page 3 of 3
ATTACHMENT A
Targeted Neighborhoods for the Project's First Year
CITIES                              NEIGHBORHOODS
Dakar                               Arafat
Pikine                              Guinaw Rail
Yeumbeul
Thiaroye Gare
Diack Sao Diamaguene
Keur Massar
Ainoumadi V
Ninzatt Guediawaye
Darou Salam
MWdina Thiaroye Kaw
Thiaroye Kao I
Diack Sao nI
Diourbel                            Keur Cheikh Ibra
Kaolack                             Ngane Alassane
Sam
Touba Kaolack '81112'
Touba Kaolack '81104'
Ziguinchor                          Tilene Kadior
Boucotte Sud
'Distr. recens. 81042'
Santiaba (Petit Kande)



48
ANEXI
Page I of 8
WATER PROGRAM
Obiectifs
1.        La situation nutritionnelle et sanitaire des populations est directement liee aux conditions de
distribution d'une eau hygi6niquement saine dans les quartiers du projet. La pr6sente etude vise donc a
verifier la situation de l'adduction d'eau et de proposer les mesures necessaires. Les objectifs de la
composante eau visent a arneliorer la couverture en eau des populations des quartiers cibles, surtout dans
les villes regionales. A Dakar, la couverture en eau des populations est deja proche de 100/o, l'objectif
visera davantage l'amIlioration du niveau de confort de la couverture en eau (diminution de la distance
d'approvisionnement, securisation des quantites d'eau necessaires). 11 est impossible de limiter cet
objectif aux seules personnes cibles (fefmmes enceintes, fenunes qui allaitent et enfants de moins de trois
ans); c'est l'ensemble des populations de ces quartiers qui doivent etre prises en compte.
Situation de I'ag2rovisionnement en eau
La couverture en eau dans les quartiers
2.        La tres forte densite de I'aabitat a Dakar et Pikine a permis que la couverture en reseau
d'adduction d'eau soit relativement elevee. II y aurait encore quelques 5.000 puits dans le grand Dakar,
mais avec l'extension de la couverture en eau par la SONES, la plupart sont abandonnees. Seuls, Keur
Massar et les extension de Thiaroye Kao 2 a 19, ainsi que des zones ponctuelles a Guiwaw Rail, Darou
Salam, etc. ont une couverture en eau de la SONES inferieure a 50%. Dans ces quartiers, 1'eau dei puits
resto la seule alternative. La situation est plus mitigee dans les autres villes. Diourbel presente ded
conditions assez similaires a cellos de Dakar, ainsi que certains quartiers centraux de Kaolack (Sam et
Touba Kaolack), et de Ziguinchor (Boucotte Sud). Dans ce dernier quartier, la population est surtout
composee de fonctionnaires et de salaries du secteur fonnel, dont les habitudes de consonmmation sont
similaires a celles de la capitale. Les autres quartiers peripheriques de Kaolack et de Ziguinchor ont une
couverture en eau tres faible. Ce sont des quartiers r6cemrnment occup6s, peu peupl6s, avec de
nombreuses constructions en paill, banco, bois ou torchis. Ces quartiers sont davantage des villages
traditionnels deplac6s aux abords des villes, plutot que des zones urbanis6es.
3.        Deux causes expliquent le faible taux de couverture en eau de la SONES: dans les quartiers
urbanises, la population revendique la couverture en eau de la SONES a 1000/4, et la volonte de payer
l'eau au prix SONES est ind6pendante de la capacite financi6re des menages. Mrne les menages les plus
pauvres depenseront, si necessaire, bien plus de 10% de leurs revenus monetairis pour s'assurer une cau
disponible et saine. A Dakar et a Pikine, les zones insuffisanmment couvertes en eau sont des zones
d'habitat r6cent (Thiaroye Kao 2 A 19, Darou Salamn, ou les quartiers Sam Sam de Diack Sao). Ces
zones soot ecore peu peupl6s pour justifier une extension irnportante du reseau. La population demande
un approvisionement r6gulier en eau, mais concoit que des bornes fontaines soient bien suffisantes en
l'absence d'une densification de l'habitat.
Les consommnations en eau
4.        Le Plan de Strat6gie d'Assainissement pour la Communaut6 Urbaine de Dakar precisait en
1990 les quantites d'cau consomm6s:
pour les branchements domiciliaires: 38 litres par habitant et par jour en hivernage, ct 25 litres en
saison s6che. Ces chiffres sont faibles, parce que de nombreuses coupurs d'eau intervenaient



49
ANNEX V
Page2of 8
regulierement. is doivent etre revus a la hausse depuis l'etude, du fait d'une arnelioration dans la
distribution de nombreux quartiers. Une consommation moyenne de 50 litres par personne et par jour
est consideree comrne "normale" quand l'offre peut satisfaire la demande;
pour les bornes fontaines: 29 litres par habitant et par jour en hivernage, et 19 litres en saison
seche, chiffres qui restent sans doute simnlaires actuellement. Le projet retient la norme de 25 litres en
moyenne par personne et par jour dans des villes ou n'existent pratiquement pas des sources d'eau
alternatives (Dakar).
Qualite de l'eau distribu6e par la SONES
5.         La qualite des eaux distribuees par la SONES est en permanence sournise a des exarnens.
En effet, le laboratoire central de la SONES a Dakar procede deux fois par an a des exarnens de la
qualite d'eau au niveau des usines d'eau. Lors de ces verifications des echantillons d'eau sont egalement
prelev6s au niveau des consonmmateurs et dans les chateaux d'eau, puis soumnis a des analyses
bateriologiques. L'examen de quelques resultats d'analyse en laboratoire conduites en vue de verifier la
qualite de 1'eau dans les 4 villes du projet a revele qu'a la fin du reseau il y a regulierement 6te detecte
la presence de streptocoques fecaux, coliformes fecaux et, plus generalement, de coliformes. La qualite
de l'eau a ete qualifi6e de non potable par le laboratoire. Le cholore residuel 6tait g6n6ralement 6gal a
zero. A Kaolack et Ziguinchor la presence de coliformes a ete etablie meme a la sortie des chateaux
d'eau. Afin de rernr,dier a cette situation le laboratoire central de la SONES a demande aux usines
d'eau d'augmenter la teneur en cholore, de proceder plus regulierement au lavage des chateaux d'eau et
des baches et d'intensifier les precautions d'hygiene lors des travaux de nettoyage et d'entretien.
6.         Le 16 novembre 1993, des echantillons d'eau ont e  preleves sur les 4 puits retenus dans
les quartiers Guinaw-Rail, Thiaroye (Sam-Sam) de la ville de Pikine, dans le quartier Keur Cheikh Ibra
de la ville de Diourbel et dans le quartier Ngane Saer de la vile de Kaolack, 6chantillons qui furent
ensuite soumis a des analyses bacteriologiques dans le laboratoire de la SONES a Dakar. On s'est
abstenu de faire un prelevement echantiulons a Ziguinchor, compte tenu de la longueur du parcours
(durabilite des echantillons).
Les resultats des echantillons sont resumes dans le tableau ci-apres:
Ieu de          Colifornes     L Coil       Streptoco       Germes
prfl6vement       totaux par    par 100 ml    par 100 ml    totaux par..      Conclusion
lOOml                                      ml
Ngane Saw
Kaolack                  17            12          > 100          1.100      Eau non potable
.                    _             IS            4            .9_   EaunonDtablo
|Tbhiaroye Sam Sam  ._ 42              18       _ > 100      r    100        Eaunonpotable
Diourbel          |      29            17          1 1.4     00    1        | Eaunonpotabl  i



50
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 8
7.        L'ensemble des 4 echantillons d'eau ont ete qualifies "eau non potable". II y a lieu de
supposer que les resultats pour Ziguinchor auraient ete sensiblement les mimes. Tous les 4 puits sont
utilises par la population pour 1'extraction d'eau de boisson. L'eau du puits a Ngane Saer est vendue
sans toute la ville de Kaolack par les vendeurs d'eau.
Capacite actuelles des riseaux AEP
8.        La region de Dakar souffre d'un deficit permanent de la production d'eau, df a une
croissance rapide de la demande. En effet, en 1994 la demande moyenne etait de 272.000 m3/j pour
une production de moyenne de 205.000m3/j. Les autres difficultes qui contribuent a la degradation de
l'alimentation en eau de la region de Dakar sont essentiellement liees a la vetuste et a lUhtdrogen6it6 du
reseau, notamment a Dakar Centre Pikine, Sicap, Grand -Yoff et Rufisque
- aux fuites dans les reseaux (env . 60.000 m3/j)
- aux extensions successives du reseau initial pour suivre les extensions de l'habitat
- au deblocage de I'attribution des quotas maraichers ce qui entrain6 un depassement des volumes
alloues au maraichages (9,4% au lieu de 7% autorises).
9.        Ces facteurs affectent la qualit6 du service et se traduisent par des manques d'eau et des
baisses de pression dans plusieurs quartiers de Dakar et de la banlieue. Face a cette situation de deficit
une serie de solutions a ete etudiee. Parmi les solutions retenues et mises en oeuvre on peut mentionner:
- Une tarification dissuasive pour eviter les gaspiliages
- La suspension de l'attribution des quotas maraichers
- La privatisation des bomes fontaines
- La diminution des pertes d'eau dans les reseaux (luttes contre les fuites d'eau)
- La realisation des travaux urgents en AEP
- Le renouvellement du reseau de Dakar
10.       Malgre ces mesures, la production d'eau n'est pas suffisante pour satisfaire lea besoins. En
attendant un projet pour augmenter la production (ie. Canal du Cayor), la SONES est obligee de
proceder regulierement a des reequilibrages de son reseau pour alimenter les quartiers. Toutefois, les
extensions projetees dans les quartiers defavoris6s du projet sont possibles du fait de la proximit6 de
ces quartiers par rapport aux conduites matresses d'adduction et des faibles consommations d'eau des
populations pauvres. Se fondant sur le nombre de 30 bomes-fontaines prevues et sur la base dune
estimation de 300 hab/bome-fontaine et une consommationjournaliere de 25/hab, la demande totale
aux bomes-fbntaines pour la premiere annee du projet, ne represente que 225 m3/j.
ll.       Les trois villes (Diourbel, Kaolack et Ziguinchor) ne connaissent pas, pour It moment, de
probe16me relatifs a la quantite d'eau produite. Le nombre des forages A t6 augmente et certains dentre
eux ont e  rehabilites en 1988. De plus, des travaux d'extension des rtseaux ont ete execut6s. La
production annuelle (1993) et la production potentielle sont:



51
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 8
Production 1993             Production Potentielle
Diourbel                           780.000m31an                  2 400 000 m3lan
Kaolack                           3.042.000 m3/an                4 390 000 m3/an
Zigulnchor                        1.220.000 m3/an                2 400 000 m3/an
Source: SONES
Ces chiffres demontrent que les extensions de reseaux ne posent aucun probleme au
niveau de la quantite d'eau. De meme, il n'y a pas, selon la SONES, de pression de service trop
faibles dans les reseaux existants.
Type de branchement A Dakar
12.       Dans les quartiers de Dakar non encore approvisionnes, deux causes expliquent l'absence
de reseau de distribution d'eau de la SONES:
- certains quartiers sont recents et encore peu urbanises. La population y est peu dense, et Vhabitat
disperse; c'est le cas dans les extensions de Sam Sam a Diack Sao, les extensions Thiaroye Kao 2 a
19, a Darou Salarn-Bene Barrak. Dans ces quartiers, les bornes-fontaines sont n6cessaires, avant une
possible extension de reseau perrnettant ulterieurement des branches particuliers;
- deux des quartiers pilotes du projet a Dakar sont encore mal approvisionnes par 1'eau de la
SONES pour des raisons tecliniques;
- A Guinaw Rail, le debit est insuffisant et de nouveaux branchements sur le reseau actuel sont
inutiles faute d'eau. De nombreux puits sont encore utilis6s. Dans cc quartier, les conduites
principales sont a revoir conpletement;
- une grande partie du centre de Keur Massar est situee sur une el6vation du sol (colline). II n'y a
pas de reseau dans cette zone, expliquant une couverture en eau de la SONES tres faible, avec un
grand nombre de puits.
Type de branchements dans les viles rigionales
13.       Les conditions locales dans les villes r4gionales sont tres differentes de celles de la
capitale. La population est actuellement tres reticente a s'approvisionner en eau de la SONES,
particuliernment a Ziguinchor, et dans une moindre mesure a Kaolack, du fait:
-  de la disonibilite d'eau des puits pendant presque toute I'annee
- de la gratuite de l'eau a ces puits,
-  du grand nombre de puits, limitant les distances d'approvisionnement,
- du gout agreable et doux de I'eau, limitant le travail de puisage,
- de la faible profondeur do l'eau, limitant le travail do puisago,
- ais surtout du cout de 1'eau de la SONES (fluor6 etlou sAtre).



52
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 8
14.       Dans les quartiers periph&riques des villes regionales, les zones non encore desservies
par l'eau de la SONES sont essentiellement des zones d'habitat recent, de type villageois, sans rues
clairement delimnitees, et avec des constrictions tres souvent en materiaux traditionnels (paille, banco,
bois, etc...). Ce type d'habitat est encore largement temporaire, et la population est dispersee sur de
grandes superficies. En consequence, dans ces quartiers, des bomes-fontaines sont plus appropriees.
Le projet propose d'etablir des bornes-fontaines dans les quartiers peripheriques de ces villes, avec la
mise en place d'une etude de "suivi" de ces bomes-fontaines. A cet egard, il est recomrnande de
construire des bormes-fontaines dans les quartiers non desservis, non pas selon l'importance de la
population a approvisionner, mais en fonction des surfaces sans reseau. On retient donc la normes de
250 metres de rayon autour d'une borne-fontaine, permettant a toute la population de
s'approvisionner dans un rayon acceptable.
Le Programme AEP
15.        Les quantites d'eau a prevoir sont: 501IhJj aux branchements et 25l'h/j aux BF. 11 existe
dans les quartiers etudies une penurie d'eau potable et ce pour les raisons suivantes: (i)
les zones disposent d'un reseau d'alimentation, mais les pressions de service sont trop faibles. Les
mesures suivantes sont prevues: (i) pose de conduites de distribution suffisaniment dimensionnrs; (ii)
il s'agit d'habitats spontanes irreguliers a la peripherie des quartiers reguliers etant munis d'un reseau
d'alimentation en eau. Les mesures suivantes sont prevues : alimentation par des bornes-fontaines
privees raccordees a des conduites d'amenee DN/100/150 afin d'assurer une extension ulterieure du
reseau et la mise en place eventuelle de branchements prives; (iii) il s'agit de quartiers irreguliers qui
ne disposent pas de reseau de distribution. Les mesures suivantes sont prevues : extension du reseau
par la SONES avec branchements prives/sociaux.
16.        Normalement l'on compte qu'un habitant s'approvisionnant A partir d'une bome-fontaine
consomme 251/jour, y compris les pertes. Or, il y a lieu de penser que les valeurs effectives so situent
a un niveau beaucoup plus bas. En plus, il est suppose qu'une borne-fontaine peut a elle seule assurer
l'approvisionnement de 200 a 300 habitants au maximum. On peut cependant partir d'un chiffre plus
eleve, compte tenu du fait que les chiffres de consommation sont plus bas et que la demande en eau
est etalee sur toute la journee en zone urbaine. En prenant pour base les taux de desserte, on
obtiendrait un nombre trop eleve de bomes-fontaines. Or, dans les zones a desserte insuffisante,
plusieurs bornes-fontaines ont et deconnectees, parce que leur exploitation etait non rentable.
17.        Par ailleurs, le nombre dthabitants dans les zones desservies est difficile A estimer, parce
que I'habitat est tres peu dense. C'est la raison pour laquelle il est plus realiste et pragmatique
d'adopter comme critere la distance, en prevoyant une distance maximale d'environ 250 m a la borne-
fontaine la plus proche. D s'ensuit qu'une bome-fontaine pourrait desservir une surface d'environ 19.6
ha.
I8.        Le programme d'investissement presente ci-dessus, conceme la premiere phase
d'intervention prevue au cours de la premiere annec du projet. II concerne 12 quartiers dont 5 se
trouvent dans l'aggloomeration de Dakar et 7 dans les centres de l'interieur. S'inspirant de 1'experience
de l'AGETIP en la matiere, les modalites d'execution du progranmne se definissent comme suit:



53
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 8
(i)    confection des dossiers techniques finaux ainsi que les cahiers des charges des travaux
par des consultants externes, sous la supervision d'un ingenieur sanitaire resident a
I'AGETIP et sous le controle pernanent de la SONES (maitre d'oeuvre);
(ii)    examen et approbation des dossiers par les services techniques de la SONES;
(iii)    achat global des fournitures par I'AGETIP en fonction des specifications techniques de
la SONES;
(iv)   choix des entrepreneurs de travaux en accord avec les trois parties;
(v)   execution des travaux sous le contr6le du consultant et sous la supervision de
l'AGETIP et de la SONES;
(vi)   reception technique et prise en charge des ouvrages par la SONES.
19.        Dans certaines zones d'habitat precaire, il pourrait etre necessaire de proc6der a de
legeres restructurations, pour pouvoir poser les conduites d'eau dans de bonnes conditions. A cet
6gard, il sera utile de mettre a profit l'experience du Ministere de l'Urbanisme et la GTZ en matiere
de remrnembrement foncier.
Le Programme de travaux composante eau
VILLE               QUARTIER                EXTENSION PREVUE -                 BORNES-
LONGUEUR                     FONTAINE
PREVUES
DAKAR                  Darou Salam           2 antrmu DN-150                         4
Guinaw Rails         RzmnpIammt DN 100 pour 300 - 2300Gn      3
Caduite de brancbe_..i- 500m
Conduite de rmcoordeat BF-900m
Kair M               2 autams DN 100400.                      2
Ninz                 2 ausmDN 150 -1500m                      3
Thiaroye Gue         2 aitama DN-1 100-900m                   3
DIOURBEL               Kmur Cheikh Ibn       2 antuumu DN 150-500m                   2
KAOLACK                Npns et Touba         3 antua  DN 100-900m                    3
Kaolack
Npnh Saar            I aiim. DN 100-600m                      2
ZIGUlNCHOR             Boucoti Sud           I  mDN 100 -100m                         I
Lydisn
Tilhe KAdor          4 atm. DN 100-200m                       4
SanWsba Kande        3 amm  DN 100.500.                       3
RECAPnULATF.                                 DN 150/PN10-4000                        30
DN 100/PN10-4900
DN 300/PN10-2300



54
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 8
Sensibilisation des Populations et Education Sanitaire
20.        Le projet a prevu en place de micro-entreprises dans les centres de nutrition
communautaires. Ces micro-entreprises sont supervisees par les ONG et par les comites de pilotage.
Pour une meilleure efficacite du projet global, il est preferable que les memes micro-entreprises soient
egalement chargees de la sensibilisation a l'eau. 11 faudra donc renforcer les micro-entreprises par les
agents "eau"' afin qu'ils puissent sensibiliser les populations sur:
- l'utilisation d'une eau propre et saine;
- le cout d'acces a l'eau potable;
- I'apprentissage des gestes sanitaires et d'hygi&ne indispensables;
- l'organisation de l'evacuation des ordures mdnageres;
- la mobilisation pour les travaux de nettoyage des rues et de curage des canaux d'6vacuation
des eaux;
- la participation de la population a l'entretien de toutes les infrastructures a crer;
- le suivi et les etudes sur la consommation et l'utilisation de 1'eau aux bomes-fontaines tests
dans les villes regionales.
21.        Ces agents devront etre choisis par les micro-entreprises au sein de la population des
quartiers en fonction de leur qualite propre et de leur influence sur la population. Ils devront recevoir
une formation specifique pour leurs tiches ulterieures, dans des entreprises de formation existantes au
Senegal et auxquelles I'AGETIP deja fait appel-pour ses autres besoins de formation.
Participation des populations pour la composante "eau"
22.        En ce qui conceme le cout financement des extensions du reseau de distribution de la
SONES, il est juge qu'une participation en travail et/ou en especes ne peut etre exigee de la population.
Jusqu'a present l'ensemble du cout de ces travaux a toujours ete pris en charge soit par des bailleurs de
fonds, soit directement par la SONES sur ses fonds propres. Ces financements ont couvert des
extensions de reseau dans des quartiers beaucoup plus "riches" que les quartiers du projet. 11 est
illogique et injuste de faire payer des "pauvres" pour un service que les "riches" ont revu gratuitement.
En ce qui conceme les frais d'entretien du reseau, le paiement de la facture d'eau selon la grille tarifaire
de la SONES suffit a couvrir ce cout. II est propose que I'AGETIP sous-traite avec des entreprises
locales et des ticherons la realisation technique des equipements, selon un cahier des charges etabli par
la SONES. Pour que la population beneficiaire se sente plus concem6e par ces extensions de r6seaux,
les entreprises adjudicatrices devront recruter des ouvriers et la main d'oeuvre non qualifi6e panni lea
populations des quartiers, selon des listes de travailleurs prioritaires 6tablies par l'AGETIP. n sagit de
procedures largement repandues dans le cadre des travaux communautaires a haute intensit6 de main
d'oeuvre. En ce qui conceme le cout d'investissement des bomes-fontaires, il est rappele que c'est le
projet qui devra les financer. Le programme sem executes par I'AGETIP danas le cadre de la nma^tris
d'ouvrage deleguee et selon le mene programme a haute intensit6 de main d'oeuvre recrut6e localement,
pour notamment la rdalisation des travaux non specialises (ex: creusement des tranch6es des conduites
d'eau).



55
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 8
Capacit6 et volonte de la population a payer 1'eau
23.       Le cout de l'eau en fonction des revenues des menages represente actuellement entre 5 et
7% du revenu monetaire des 80% les plus "riches" de la population urbaines. Les 20% les plus
"pauvres" sont rarement raccorde a un branchement particulier. A Dakar, ou les sources d'eau
alternatives (puits) sont rares, la population la plus pauvre depense quelques 10% de ses revenus
monetaires pour l'eau potable aux bornes-fontaines. Dans les villes regionales, les revenus monetaires
sont moins eleves que dans la capitale et les menages les plus pauvres n'acheteront aux bomes-
fontaines que quelques litres par personne et par jour indispensables a la cuisine et la boisson. Les
autres-besoins en eau seront couverts par les sources altematives d'eau (puits), qui sont nombreuses
dans les villes regionales du projet. Dans la pratique, la SONES est flexible quant a la possibilite de
payer la facture d'eau en plusicurs fois, ce qui constitue un atout pour les menages pauvres de ne pas
avoir a debourser 4.000 F CFA ou plus en une seule fois. Le coat de l'eau reste donc acceptable pour la
tres grande majorite de la population urbaine du Senegal.
24.        La notion de "volonte" de la population A payer l'eau potable est difficile a cerner dans une
vile ou il n'existe aucune autre source d'eau alternative. A Dakar, la population u'a pas le choix,
puisque le nombre de puits encore fonctionnels est tres faible. La SONES couvre deja plus de 95 % de
la demande en eau de la capitale. La population a la capacite financiere pour payer l'eau de la SONES
A Dakar, et le recouvrement des factures d'eau de la SONES est proche de 100%. La situation est
differente dans les villes regionales, surtout a Ziguinchor oa la capacite financiere existe (bien que les
revenus mon6taires des families soient inferieurs a ccux de la capitale), mais la volonte de payer 1'eau
n'est pas repandue dans les quartiers non urbanises. La sensibilisation des populations est donc
indispensable. En tout etat de cause, une enquete suppl6mnetaire plus detaille sur la volonte des
populations A payer l'eau, sera effectuee prochainement sur le terrain par le GREA qui dispose d'une
tr6s grande experience en la matiere.



56
ANNEX V
Page I of 2
RURAL HOUSEHOLD FOOD SECURITY
Terms of Reference
Description
a) Goal:  The objective will be to produce a detailed proposal, completed at least two months prior
to the project's mid-term review, which sets forth a plan of action for the rural household food security
program. This proposal, once vetted and approved, will be selectively tested to determiine its
sustainability and replicability throughout rural Senegal.
b) Perspective: In the long run, increased food output and higher real income are the principal
pathways to solving much of the malnutrition and food insecurity in rural households. Population
density, logistical constraints, seasonal variations affecting food availability, household food
production and consumption, female labor requirements and child feeding patterns, make the rural
environment markedly different than that of the peri-urban setting.
c) Intervention: This component will test an approach for rural households in areas where there is a
high incidence of food insecurity, poor nutrition, and poverty, especially with respect to child and
women, principally through direct interventions which complement AGETIP's comparative advantages,
as well as other programs, projects, and policies. The progran will focus initially on labor-intensive
rural community micro-projects. Such activities could include village wells, health posts, schools and
school canteens, community gardens, food storages facilities, road maintenance and incidental
construction. The program will look to AGETEP's experience in group motivation and partnership with
both public and non-public entities.
Information and Analysis (Phase I)
Taking into account differences between peri-urban and rural household food insecurity, and the
extent of AGETIP's institutional experience in rural communities, rural community basic infrastructure
needs, the size, character, structure and capacity of rural NGOs, the task will be to gather and analyze
existing infornation with respect to:
. rural household income, nutritional status, and household eating habits in different regions;
. early warning systems, such as those under the direction of the Commissariat d la Securit
Alimentaire (CSA), which identify insecure food areas and food market price;
. availability and delivery of health and social welfire services to rural women and children,
whether through the MOH, or the Ministry of Family, Child and Mother;
. assessing the availability and existing and potential capacity of AGETIP's possible NGO
partners, such as traditional women associations and women farmer contact groups, and fiale
extensions agents of PNVA, by the Monitnces Rurales or through the Centres d'Expanslon
Rurale Polyvalent (CERPs), to deliver household food security nutrition programs and messages;
. past or ongoing rural food assistance, particularly food-for-work, such as community
reforestation and school cafeteria projects;



57
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
Proposal Document for Program Intervention (Phase II)
The findings of Phase I will provide the basis for concrete recommendations concerning:
. identification of regions where initial labor-intensive rural community efforts could be focused
and tested, based on high probability of food insecurity, poor nutritional status, poverty levels,
and proximity to areas where AGETIP is carrying out community nutrition activities;
. identification of one or more promising models which could be adapted to Senegal's rural
conditions, including the transfer of the IEC component to rural settings: modifying this approach
to emphasize greater reliance on outreach capability, for shorter time periods; experimentation
with various formulations of targeted food-for-work, food supplement or cash equivalent
programns; working with traditional women associations and farmer contact groups in developing
productive activities which have high probability of increasing food consumption and income for
women and children, and can be used to convey behavioral change messages; and
. proposals on ways to introduce these models, taking into account investment and operating costs,
beneficiary coverage, and likely benefits. Preliminary cost estimates for training, staffing, food
supplies, equipment, community civil works construction, IEC materials development and
production, and operating expenses will be, provided.
Trial Testing (Phase III)
Once the detailed plan of action is approved by the National Commission for the Fight
Against Malnutrition and IDA, it will be made operational on a limited basis. At least one, possibly
two, region(s), which meet the food insecurity, poor nutrition, poverty, and proximity to AGETIP's
community nutrition activities criteria, will be chosen. The specific interventions and target
populations will be identified, as well as the approach to be used for field monitoring. The test
interventions will be evaluated during their implementation, with potential strengths and constraints of
each, viewed in terms of: transference of functions to the non-public sector, community mobilization
and responsiveness to beneficiary needs, training, management and logistical needs; additional rural
nutritional and household food security information generated, on which to base decisions and action.



58
ANNEX Vl
Page I of 7
SOCIAL MOBILIZATION AND INFORMATION, EDUCATION, AND COMMUNICATION
(IEC)
Introduction
1.        More than one child in five aged 6-36 months is malnourished in Senegal. One child in
three is stunted as a result of chronic malnutrition. While malnutrition is a greater problem in rural
areas than in urban ones, nutrition problems in poor urban neighbourhoods are of a magnitude
comparable to that in the rural world (Guiro 1994). There is evidence that socio-cultural and socio-
behavioural factors are as much part of the underlying causes of malnutrition as are economic and
food-security factors. Changing behavioral patterns towards irnproved practices in the field of
nutrition, health and hygiene is therefore an integral part of the fight against malnutrition. A
sustainable approach to the elimination of malnutrition requires the empowerment of individuals and
communities to manage their nutrition and health problems themselves.
2.        The Community Nutrition Project therefore places major emphasis on behavioral change
and the mobiisation of commnunities to take charge of their problems. The Social Mobilization (SM)
and Information, Education and Communication (IEC) Programns are central to all the components of
the project and to the project's success as a whole. They will ensure that all those involved in the
project from political leaders to beneficiaries are fully informed, motivated and participate in the
project. They are also critical to achieving project sustainability by providing individuals and
communities skills for dealing with their nutrition/health problems.
3.        The programs are being developed with the past difficulties with SM and EEC activities in
Senegal in mind. Emphasis will be put on strategic planning guided by well defined research (including
monitoring and evaluation); regular training and supervision of EEC staff; collaboration between
partners at the national and community levels; and the development of pretested, culturally appropriate
IEC materials.
4.        The programs will make the best use of SM and EEC resources through an approach which
combines client consultation (interpersonal conmmunication with beneficiaries) at the Community
Nutrition Centers (CNC) and in households with interventions within conmuunities and use of the mass
media. AGETIP and its collaborators have gained valuable experience with SM and EEC and will
build on this experience.
Social mobilization (SM)
Obiectives
5.        The SM objectives are to:
- mobilize political support and collaboration for the project at the national, regional and local
level, including local leaders;
- ensure that the conmmunity has a sense of local ownership of the project and participates in its
planninng and execution; and



59
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 7
- improve the capacity of communities to take charge of their nutrition/health problems and to
provide and broaden access to nutrition and related health services
Strategv
6.        At the national level, critical elements of the SM strategy include the political support
provided by the National Commission for the Fight Against Malnutrition, as well as national planning
meetings such as ZOPP workshops. At the regional level, the strategy aims at mobilizing the support of
governors and other regional authorities. A key factor at the community level, the focus of the
mobilization efforts, is the establishment of steering committees (Comites de Pilotage) composed of
local leaders, local economic interest groups (GIEs) and associations, and representatives of local
authorities (including the district medical officer); these are supported by sub-committees built around
the individual CNCs (where the district medical officer is represented by the nurse or midwife of the
neighborhood). These commnittees and sub-committees serve as a mechanism for communication and
coordination among all local stakeholders in the project, and as an instrument for community
supervision, problem idenification and problem solving. The steering committees are concemed with all
major components of the project, i. e. nutrition, health, and water.
7.        AGETIP has vast experience with SM. The existing AGETIP strategy for conducting
Social Mobilization will be adapted to the needs of the project. At the community level, it involves the
following steps: contact local authorities, meet with community leaders, hold large community
meeting; gain approval of the community; and the formation of a community steering commitee. A
description of the project and options for community participation are presented. The AGETIP method
of contracting for services is also explained. A Video will be prepared and shown, illustrating
successful project interventions in other communities with emphasis on the role of growth monitorig in
the nutrition program and the mothers' active participation in that activity. Traditional forms of
communication, such as the "griots" or town criers and theater groups, will be used to attract the
attention of communities to the project.
8.        Social mobilization activities will also include information exchanges between
neighborhoods: local leaders, local NGOs, GIEs and other associations. The MICs and MOCs of
neighborhoods about to open new CNCs will visit neighborhoods with well-established and well-
functioning CNCs. There will also be competitions between CNCs with awards going to the best
performes.
Implementation
9.        Social mobilization efforts at the community level will be directed by the Steering
Committees with the assistance of community supervisors (MOCs) and local consultants. MICs, and
notably the IEC agents, will explain project details to local groups and associations and members of the
Steenng Comnmttees/Subcommittees. AGETIP will exercise overall superision.
10.       The Social Mobilization activities will also provide a vehicle for delivering EEC messages,
which include:



60
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 7
Community initiative: importance of communities helping themselves and not waiting for
government services, development of techniques to lobby for services ; importance of participatory
nature of project.
Community hygiene: importance of boiled water and link to good health and nutrition;
importance of good water conservation and management habits; why pay for water (benefit returns to
community); importance of good sanitation habits and link to good health and nutrition ; role of
latrines, garbage collection, canal cleaning, compost.
Role of fathers for family nutrition : special needs of lactating and pregnant mothers; link
between nutrition and good health ; need for financial planning to ensure nutritional needs of young
children are met.
IEC
I1.       It is acknowledged that many of the nutrition and related health problems are caused by
economic and environmental conditions. However, many are related to socio-cultural factors. Poor
nutrition practices which are based on misguided traditions or simply ignorance will be the target of
much of the IEC program. Traditionally, health and nutrition "education" was oriented to simply filling
information gaps. This approach of providing scientific facts and encouraging behavioral change is not
effective. More subtle participatory approaches have been developed which use a combination of media
and inter-personal methods focused on inspiring specific changes in behavior among specific target
populations.
12.       These approaches help the target populations understand their situations and, most
importantly, decide for themselves to make changes they perceive will be of benefit to themselves anf
their families. Past experience has shown that the population's ability to make changes is weak,
especially considering that those with the greatest nutrition and health problems are those with the most
limited education and resources. Project planners have to make sure that realistic expectations are
created and that the demands on IEC to inspire behavior change do not surpass the populaiton's ability
to change.
13.       Thc objectives of the IEC program are: (a) to stimulate positive behavioral change among
the target population and strengthen their capacity to manage their nutrition, health and related
problemns; and (b) to increase among the public at large -including the leaders responsible for the
provision of social services- awareness of nutrition, health and sanitation conditions and ways of
addressing them.
14.       The EEC strategy will be developed and guided by existing and new research, including
beneficiary assessments and monitoring of EEC activities. The IEC will be targeted towards clearly
defined target populations and oriented to inspiring and measuring specific changes in behavior.
15.       The target groups are: (i) for the nutrition progam, mainly pregnant and lactating women
most of which have malnourished children (an attempt will be made also to reach men with selected
messages); and (ii) for the water progam, all households in targeted communities.



61
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 7
16.       The strategy will use the following communication methods:
(i) Inter-personaUclient consultation at CNCs (individual and groups): mainly in the nutrition program;
(ii) Inter-personal at household level: primarily in the nutrition program for households with severely
malnourished or sick children, with children not gaining weight and with multiple beneficiaries;
(iii) Inter-personal at community level: both programs
(iv) Mass media: both programs
- radio, TV, press; particular emphasis will be placed on broadcasts in local languages on
regional radio stations.
(i) Inter-personal IEC at the CNC
17.       Each CNC will offer weekly IEC sessions to pregnant and lactating women during the 6
months they participate in the feeding program. Other women who are not participating in the feeding
program will also attend the sessions. The sessions will be held with groups of 10-15 and each session
will cover a specific theme. An attempt will be made also to hold at least one EEC session with the
husbands of participating women. Given the difficulties in reaching this group with nutrtition/health
related EEC, successful efforts will depend on mobilizing the support of local leaders.
18.       Two staff persons in each CNC will be responsible for conducting [EC sessions, though
the other staff members will assist. The EEC Agent will provide group sessions at the CNC, while the
Community Health Agent (in charge of growth monitoring) will be responsible for individual client
consultation. This individual contact is with women who have the most acute difficulties and will
involve referring them to other health and social services.
19.       The two staff will attend three training sessions over the course of the project. Those
conducting the training will also be responsible for supervising the work in EEC and client counseling
and distributing materials. Each center will be supplied with EEC materials. Flip Charts to be used in
the EEC sessions and Flash cards (for client consultation) together with growth charts are the primay
materials which will be used. The person repsonsible for EEC will be literate and have roots in the
community (to reduce the chances that they would be trained and then leave).
20.       Me EEC agent will also be required to organize EEC sessions outside the CNC, especially
for the water program. This will be done in conjunction with the Social Mobilization efforts and in
collaboration with other health and social service organizations, NGO's, women's groups or others who
wish to benefit from the project EEC.
21.       IEC activities in the CNCs would follow a standardized approach, using modular EEC
packages. However, adtivities would be finetned to the socio-cultural conditions and the specific needs
articulated by the beneficiaries temnselves in each CNC. Each EEC agent will be required to prepare
quarterly plans (micro-planning) which will be reviewed by the community supervisors (MOC) and the
EEC supervisor at AGETIP. The format for the group sessions at the CNCs would be unifonn.
Sessions would start with a review of the theme covered at the previous session and a discussion of



62
ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 7
wihat impact if any it had on the mothers. This would be followed by a discussion to gain insights into
how the mothers perceive their problems related to the new theme using the IEC material (flip charts
and flash cards to stimulate the discussion and present information).
(iii) Communiy level IEC
23.       At the community level IEC will be used for three main purposes: in support of the social
mobilization process to stimulate interest in the establishment of the CNCs ; to conmmunicate the IEC
messages used in the CNCs to a wider audience ; to promote the water program and deliver related
messages.
24.       For the water program the IEC effort will build on AGETIP's experience with using the
Social Mobilization to communicate IEC messages. Topics to be covered include: use of clean water;
why pay for water; the importance of community and individual hygiene; how and why to organize
garbage collection; the importance of clean drainage and keeping it clean; why a community should
participate in the Water and Sanitation Program ; the importance of maintaining water sources clean
and conserving water; and the monitoring of the experimental standpipes in the regional towns.
(iv) Mass media IEC
25.       Mass media can be the most cost-effective vehicle for EEC. Large numbers of people can
be reached especially through radio. 70% all Senegalese households have a radio, in urban areas this
rate is higher.
26.       Radio spot ads will be developed which will initially treat three principal themes: the link
between nutrition and health; the link between good hygiene and health; and breastfeeding and good
weaning practices. The 30 second spots wil be repeated several times daily for two months on
regional radio stations. They will be broadcast in Wolof and the predominant language of the region in
which the stations are located, if the population speaking the language is greater than 40 percent. The
format recommended is creating a real life situation. Different spot fornmats should be pre-tested to find
out which has the greatest impact. Traditional theater groups can assist in the dramatizaton of the
dialogue we and the selection of words in Wolof and other languages.
27.       Since the project will expand in phases it is recommended that the four regional radio
stations be used for the spot ads to ensure that the ads broadcast at about the same time project
services wil be available or soon become available. Different themes and messages wil be needed over
the life of the project as different obstacles to behavior change emerge and priorities evolve. Spot ads
on the radio are the most cost effective commnunication media for reaching the different target
populations.. Liniited use wil also be made of TV spot ads to build strong advocacy for the project at
all levels of society.
28.       A news media campaign will be designed to gain support among opinion leaders and
encourage commnunity participation. It wil also complement the spot ad campaign by communicating
some of the same messages. The campaign will be conducted by preparing documentation and press
releases on the project for radio, television and newspaper journalists. Thejournalists wil also be
invited to briefings; special attention will be paid to the journalists who prepare national language



63
ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 7
programming. They will be assisted in developing a vocabulary in the different languages which would
also be used on the spot ads in IEC materials.
29.       The IEC program will receive advice from the Project's Consultative Committee composed
of representatives from concerned government departmnents, international organizations, bilateral
donors and local NGOs, including: SANAS, DSSP, ESP, UNICEF, UNFPA, WFP, USAID, GTZ,
ORSTOM, ORANA, and Project BASICS. The Consultative Commnittee will ensure that a cooperative
environment is created which allows for the sharing of research and materials developed by different
organizations working in the nutrition and health sectors in Senegal. It will also facilitate the
coordination of resources and content to avoid costly and confusing duplication. This Committee will
function like a board of directors offering guidance and support for major IEC strategies. For specific
subject areas the Comrnmittee may associate other institutions with specialized expertise.
30.       A combination of messages and materials developed by other organizations and
institutions, as well as new messages and mnaterials developed for the specific needs of the project will
be used. For example, flip charts on oral rehydration and nutrition exist and can be duplicated and used
from the start of the project. All materials will be throughly pre-tested with representatives of the target
population, including materials already produced and prototypes of new materials.
31.       The naterials will be developed by contracting out the work to private sector finns or
NGOs with experience in communication and advertising. This will be done under the supervision of
the AGETIP's NMD and in collaboration with the Consultative Committee.
32.       To develop consistency in the vocabulary used in the project in the inter-personal and the
mass media communications, a seminar will be held to create a glossary of terms in French and
national languages. The seminar would be attended by several EEC agents from the CNC,
representatives of the MOH, UNICEF, NGOs, and other organizations with experience in
communication and advertising and the production of nutrition/health-related EEC material in Senegal.
National language linguists and the producers of radio programs in national languages would also be
invited. The terms already used by the MOH and UNICEF health educators will be used as the basis
for the development of the glossary. The glossary would be circulated to the CNCs and integrated into
the training.
33.       The EEC program will be irnplemented by a combination of collaborators including
AGETEP's NMD; private sector firms responsible for training, supervision, materials production;
institutional collaborators, notably those represented in the Consultative Committee.
Research
34.       There exists in Senegal a large volume of high quality research which has been produced
by various organizations and agencies on topics related to this project. This research on food habits,
taboos, intra-fanily food sharing, breast feeding and weaning habits will be important in guiding
the IEC and Social Mobilization program. However, there will also be a need to develop operational
research which will be instrumental to the functioning of an efficient EEC and Social Mobilization
program. A combination of small scale studies and focus group discussions with various target
populations would serve to guide the development of EEC and Social Mobilization strategies, messages



64
ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 7
and materials. This research will become increasingly important as obstacles to behavior change are
identified.
35.       Operational research is needed to monitor and evaluate the EEC and Social Mobilization
program. The impact of the messages and materials on changes of behavior among the target
populations is of particular importance. Different parts of the project have different research needs for
planning, monitoring and evaluation (study of beneficiaries, periodic operational studies, activity
reports of supervisors, household studies and an annual KAP study). This research will be coordinated
to ensure that the specific needs of the IEC and Social Mobilization planners are met (see Annex VIII
on monitoring and evaluation).
Management of the JEC and Social Mobilization Program
36.       A team approach will be employed for the management of the IEC and Social Mobilization
programn. The team will be headed by a program manager who will have the responsibility of
coordinating the work of other AGETIP project staff, including the nutritionist and
sociologist/anthropologist. The manager and other staff would have the responsibility of:
-Reviewing research and developing plans for new research
-Developing specific EEC and SM strategies
-Identifying private sector coDlaborators to execute the IEC and SM stmtegies through bidding
-Developing terms of reference for the collaborators
-Developing work plans with the collaborators and supervision of their work
-Ensuring the pre-test of IEC materials and the development and analysis of research guiding the
development, monitoring and evaluation of the execution of EEC and SM strategies
37.       Under the supervision of the IEC and SM manager, the EEC-related research, EEC
materials, taining modules and accompanying materials and the Social Mobilization will be developed
and executed under contract. NGOs, government agencies and the private sector with experience with
the various responsibilities will render the services. Private sector advertising and market research
firms will be used to develop media strategies and materials and pre-test their effectiveness.
38.       In order to develop a clear public identity for the project, a logo will be developed for use
throughout the project (e.g. at CNC entrances, on food-supplement containers, T-shirts). The logo will
contain a visual message related to good nutrition practices and conveying child well-being. It will be
thoroughly pre-tested to ensure that it is understood and appreciated by the target populations and not
confused with other projects or programs. A name for the food supplement will also be developed.



65
ANNEX Vn
Page I of 4
TRAINING
1.        Given the innovative aspect of the project, it is essential to implement a training program
which wil address the needs of the target groups, the steering committees, the Community Micro-
Entreprises (NEC), the Comnnunity Supervisors (MOC), and the communities involved in the project.
Such a program will enable the providers of services to promote the nutrition and hygiene practices
they have gained during project implementation. The training program will cover the nutrition, water
and and monitoring and evaluation programs of the project. The implementation of the training
program will take into account the phasing of the project; thus, this Annex will consider only the first
year activities.
Strateg& of the Training Program
2.        The objective of this component is to set up through training, the environment favorable to
a real involvement of the populations, the steering committee, the MIC, the MOC and the target
groups, so as to ensure good project implementation. In addition, this component aims at ensuring the
durability of the experiences gained during this project and at strengthening the local and national
expertise in terms of training and nutrition.
Theoretical and Practical Training
3.        The training modules for the first year of project execution are mostly dictated by
AGETIP's past experience in contracting with snall entrepreneurs in the Public Works Project. These
modules draw also from the pilot phase experience and the observed capacity of the MICs and MOCs
to carry out the tasks of managing the CNCs. It is envisaged that during the first year of project
implementation, many issues will arise, in particular during monitoring and evaluation, that will be
recorded and communicated to the trainers by AGETIP in order to be taken into account in susbsequent
years. This bottom-up approach puts the emphasis on the real needs of the entrepreneurs. The links
established with the monitoring and evaluation component of the project allow for feedback and for
adjustment to improve the delivery process.
4.        In the short term, educational materials wiDl be prepared for training in local languages
(Wolof, Diola) of the different project participants in Dakar and in the various districts of the ten
regions in which the project wil be implemented. In the long terrn, these nmaterials will be reviewed in
conjunction with the MOH to integrate them in the action plan of the national nutrition program.
Trainin Program Description
5.        The training program will have three sub-components dealing with nutrition, water, and
general management.
Nutrition sub-component
6.        The development of traning modules and support materials and the traing itself will be
contracted out. Training will be conducted following the method used by AGETIP in previous
projects. Contractors wil develop training modules and identify consultants (unemployed doctors) to
conduct the training and assist in the supervision of activities. The "cascade" method similar to the
Training and Visit method used for Agricukural Extension in Senegal will be used. It involves



66
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 4
conducting training of trainers and the use of supervision and extensive feedback mechanism to ensure
that the training has been effective and to identify future training needs. A nutritionist will be identified
to be part of the team developing the training modules, and will participate in the training. Training
will be practical and will include role plays if necessary. After initial training, yearly refresher courses
will be provided both to the MICs and MOCs.
7.        The training for the nutrition program will be divided into six main modules: i) inter-
personal communications methods and techniques for welcoming the population ("accueil"); ii) general
presentation of the project; iii) stock management; iv) nutrition; v) management, monitoring and
supervision of a CNC; and vi) the management information system.
8.        The following training modules will be developed:
9.       Module on inter-personal communications methods. This module is designed to improve
the skills of MICs in inter-active communications. In the past, support materials, such as flip charts,
have not been used properly because of a lack of training in inter-personal communications techniques.
The primary participant for this training would be the person at each CNC who is designated to be
responsible for IEC. The initial training session would be for five days, followed by 2 additional
follow-up sessions of 2 days in length. Existing documents and training modules on conducting inter-
personal communications exist and wiLl be adapted for this module. This module on communication
techniques and.animation of meetings will be helpful to develop the relationships between the MIC, the
MOC, the Steering Comittee and the beneficiaries. In this module they will also learn techniques for
welcoming people in the CNCs.
10.       General presentation of the project. This module is targeted to the main actors of the
project (MICs, MOCs). After this session, they will know the project's objectives, who are the target
population, the different actors and their terms of reference, and contracts. An introduction to the
project's Manual of procedures will be given to ensure that they understand who are the stakeholders of
the project.
11.       Module on managemnent. monitoring and suRervision of a Cumnunitv Nutrition Center.
This module is targeted to the supervisors of micro-entrepreneurs and to CNCs external supervisors
(MOCs). The module presents the role of the CNC in the context of the project and its contracual
relationship with AGETIP. The module will provide training in basic management and develop skills
directly related to nmning the CNC, such as receiving and registering beneficiaries, conducting growth
monitoring and the stocking and distribution of the food supplement. An operations manual will be
provided as a support document. Also, videos of functioning centers will be shown and discussed.
12.       Module on Nutrition. This module is designed to ensure that collaborators at all levels
have fundamental information about nutrition, hygiene and other issues related to the project. It will
help them understand the context of their part of the intervention and enable then to act as informal
educators.



67
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 4
The participants would include all the managers of the CNCs, supervisors and those conducting [EC
training, weighing and referral to health centers. The module will include the following elements: basic
nutrition, breastfeeding promotion, weaning practices, frequency of feeding, prevention and treatment
of diarrhea growth monitoring and promotion (using weight for age and how to use the growth chart),
food demonstration in the CNCs, referral of children to the health system and ways to coordinate with
the health system.
13.       Module on stock management. This module is above all designed for the agents who will
be responsible for distributing and controling the stock of the food supplement. The supervisors (as
well as MOCs) will also be concerned by this module. This session will present general concepts on
stock management, quality control of the food supplement, record keeping and safe storage of the food.
14.       Module on the Management Information System (MIS). This module is designed for the
MOC in charge of putting data collected from the CNCs and the staff of the Nutrition Management
Division in AGETIP who will treat and analyze results given by the MIS. Simplified sub-modules will
be addressed to enable the MICs, the MOCs and the Steering Committees to interpret the results
generated by the MIS.
Water Program
15.       Training for the water progrmn, developed in accordance with SONES, the Services
Techniques Communaux, and AGETIP, will be done by private contractors. The training component
will promote an expertise from small contractors who will later have the opportunity to become skilled
repairmen, spare-parts distributors, cement sellers, and generally dynamic contractors in their districts.
The training modules will cover all the trades involved in the implementation of the water component,
i.e., pump and generator repairs, well-digging, construction (for the superstructures/pumps and the
platforms for stand-pipes), pipe laying and electric work. In addition to technical training, they will be
offered support in the management of their MIC including community outreach (information campaign
and data collection) and a survey on the effective demand in the target areas.
Management Trainng Component
16.       This component will reinforce the managerial abilities of the MIC and MOC. It will
comprise the following modules: general diagnosis (computing); management; fiscal and social
diagnosis; general accounting; marketing; stock managemeat; finance; worksite management and
supervision diagnosis; analytic accounting; and strategy diagnosis: development plan.
Vocational Training Component
17.       This component includes 6 modules: repair works for small water networks, pumps etc.;
measurement and estimate of costs; well-digging techniques; electricity; worksite management; and
construction.



68
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 4
Management Component
18.      The last two training modules concem the Nutrition Management Division: training to
document project implementation and self-evaluation training. The first module is one of the most
important aspects of the Training Component. Indeed, the project aims at helping in the elaboration
and setting up of a new nutrition strategy. It is a good means of experimenting and establishing norms,
working principles, fixing participation rates, and determining responsibilities. The objectives of the
training module, "Programming and Documenting Project Implementation", which will permit
concemed persons to tap a regularly-updated information network, are the following:
- to collect nutrition information expected by various stakeholders;
- to identify and send to the National Commission for the Fight against Malnutrition the available
information generated by the Management Information System;
- to elaborate sunmmary documents on the different aspects of the project;
- to identify and duplicate educational materials which might interest health, education and nutrition
stakeholders.
19.       The Self-evaluation Training module is meant for the personnel of the Nutrition
Management Division who will be responsible for providing information to the National Commission
for the Fight against Malnutrition. It will help set up a very simple mechanism (without much data
colUection) to identify quickly areas which require special attention, need to be adjusted or eliminated.
Not only will this self-evaluation help AGETIP monitor the activities of the project, but it will also help
the project team understand project objectives that have been clearly defined by the National
Commission for the Fight against Malnutrition.



69
ANNEX Vlll
Page 1 of 13
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
I. DESCRIPTION
A. General
1.        The objective of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system is to provide timely and
relevant information to managers and policy makers of the project, to enable them to track project
performance, take any necessary corrective actions, and assess project benefits and impact. The
monitoring and evaluation system will be discussed with all interested parties (including MOCs, MOKt
CSA, WFP, KFW and IDA) at the launching of the project during a 2-3 days workshop, to be
organized by AGETIP. At the conclusion of the workshop, the M & E will be finalized, with each
project actor having a better understanding of the purpose of the system, the role of each stakeholder,
the relationship among the various stakeholders and the flow of informnation.
B. Key Data Base Components
2.        Neighborhood Census: To build an information base on the children in the community, all
children in a targeted neighborhood will be identified by an initial census. The local MIC personnel will
participate as surveyors in the census data collection. Information gathered will be the child's name,
age, weight and height (for those 6-36 months), number of pregnant and lactating women in the
household, household conditions with respect to-water souce and conservation, and sanitary conditions.
All data collected during the census will be logged into the project management information system.
This census will provide the basis to evaluate project coverage in each targeted neighborhood. Once the
CNC is operational, this initial census data will be used to identify malnourished children who have not
come to the CNC within a reasonable timeframe. CNC staff will visit these households during homne
visits and will try to convince mothers to participate in the program. In each area, the census will be
done two months before the opening of the local CNC.
3.        Management Information System: During the pilot phase, the MIS data collection system
at the CNC was simplified, and during appraisal, prelirninary agreement was reached on the number,
type and content of forms to be maintained by the MIC. (These will be finalized during the M&E
Workshop). MIC staff will be trained to collect information, organize and analyze it. As designed:
- each beneficiary form will be printed with a color code and will be organized in boxes to easily
identify malnutrition categories and scheduling (i.e., which beneficiaries are expected to come on each
day). A separate file will be kept on children who did not come and need at home visits.
- a daily tabulation of the number of children weighed, number of food rations distributed by client
category, and the number of [EC sessions with theme and attendance will be kept on a small registry.
-a weeldy data form has been developed for MIC data to be filled by the MOC for entry in a
computer program. Weekly supervision meetings between MICs and MOCs will start by analyzing and
discussing these data, identifying trends and problems, and trying to solve them on the spot (a
supervision guide is being developed by AGETIP).



70
ANNEX Vm
Page 2 of 13
- MOC staff will consolidate the weekly reports for each MIC on a monthly basis and send these
results to AGETIP by modem. The MOC will also use the monthly report to discuss it with the Local
Steering Commnittee, and the District Steering Committee with AGETIP, to solve problems that can be
solved at that level.
Supervision System
4.        Supervisors will use MIS data for multiple purposes, including feedback to people
supervised and to resolve problems. Supervision of the CNCs will be contracted out to MOCs who
will provide at least two staffs for this purpose. They will share their workload so that each CNC is
supervised by only one person. Each CNC will be visited weekly by its MOC supervisor. Results of
supervision will be the basis for penrodic meeting with the MOCs, MICs, Health Services and
Communities.
5.        The selection critenra for selecting supervisors (MOCs) and their terns of reference have
been established in the Manual of Procedures. A Supervision Guide to be used by the MOC during its
weekly supervision of the MIC is being tested and finalized by AGETIP. Briefly, the following services
will be provided by MOC supervisors:
- undertake a weekly supervision of 10 CNCs;
- provide a monthly, semestrial and annual report to AGETIP;
= cross-check information collected in the CNCs by visiting a sample of households to check
(i) if data are valid, and (ii) to ensure that beneficiaries' files are being updated properly;
provide AGETIP the next monthly supervision schedule before the end of the
ongoing month;
= participate in the annual program evaluation;
- coordinate activities with the District Committee (discuss with them the monthly supervision
report and solve with them problems identified, through weekly supervisions);
- participate in periodic meetings with AGETIP and other MOCs.
6.        A supervision form to be used by the MOC is also being developed and tested by AGETIP
during the pilot phase. It will consist of two parts: one conceming the CNC and the other conceming
household information. For the latter, at least two households, selected at random, whose names appear
in the beneficiary file will be visited weekly to (i) confirm that this household belongs to the target
population, and (ii) check if the household has received the services mentioned in the CNC activity
report. In addition, at least two households who have abandoned the program will be visited to find out
why they discontinued the program. Results of these field visits will be discussed with the MIC and the
Local Committe and will be transmitted to AGETIP with the monthly report.
II. MONITORING ACTIVITIES
7.        The monitoring system is designed to gather infornation on the availability and delivery of
services, on the utilization of project inputs (the status of beneficiary recruitment into the program: age
and nutritional status), on the coverage, on the quality of project outputs and on the conditions crucial
for effective implementation. It will provide timely signals to project staff, management, and
government on problem areas requiring corrective actions.



71
ANNEX VIII
Page3 of 13
8.        To be useful for rapid decision making, the data must be analyzed and made available
quickly. This will be done by:
- setting performance thresholds which will trigger action by management if reached;
- making data available to all levels of management (CNC, community, District, MOC and
AGETIP) through computer data entry at the CNCs and via modem, as well as through periodic
meetings with Community and District Committees. Suggested monitoring indicators differ from
management level: a) MIC by MOC; b) MOC by AGETIP, c) overall by AGETIP and d) by the
National Commission.
A. Monitoring of the MIC by the MOC
9.        The objective of this monitoring is mainly to monitor MIC performance against planned
targets, and to ensure the quality of services provided by the MICs. Tentative MIC performance
thresholds indicating that special attention is required are contained in the table on monitoring
indicators (see Attachment A). Performance thresholds for each CNC will be set by semester, based on
the census data.
10.       Monitoring will be done during the weekly visits to the CNCs. The MOC will use a laptop
computer to enter data collected during the weekly MIC supervision, and will transmit analysed data,
through modem to AGETIP, at the end of each month. At the CNC level, data will be analyzed during
the weekly supervision, and plotted on graphs and tables. These graphic analyses will then be used for
meetings with the Local Steering Committee at least every two months. It is important to ensure that
analysis of some data is made at the CNC so that the MIC understands how their data can be used, this
should ensure better quality of data collection in the medium to long-term.
B. Monitoring of the MOC by AGETIP
11.      AGETIP will ensure that the MIC/MOC information system works as planned, and that
the MOCs are supervising regularly and effectively. Suggested indicators of performance that will
warrant attention from AGETIP are shown in the table on monitoring indicators (see Attachment A).
Monitoring of the MOCs will be done basically through monthly reports from MOCs to AGETIP and
through regular meetings with AGETIP.
12.      The monthly data analysis by the MOCs and AGETIP will be mnade available to the
Community and District Steering Committees. This monthly report will contain infonnation described
in the table on monitoring indicators (see Attachment A). lhe five key indicators (number of children
weighed; percentage of children in green, yellow and red- number of feeding program participants;
number of children not gaining weight; number of rations distributed) will enable the different
managemnent levels to monitor the progress of project efforts. They reveal the project's changing
coverage over time, show monthly variations in the nutritional status of children, and indicate trends in
program participation of children with hiling growth. These time.;series data will provide a valuable
rinning account of project coverage and impact. Companing tDis information with past performance
and with yearly data from evaluation surveys will allow management to identify those neighborhoods
where results are as expected, and those where they are not.



72
ANNEX VIll
Page 4 of 13
C. Comprehensive Project Monitoring by AGETIP
13.       Based on the MIS, a project monitoring chart will be established by AGETIP that
pinpoints the actions required and shows whether services are available, accessible, utilized by the
target population, and of acceptable quality. This monitoring chart will be updated yearly, prior to a
Bank supervision mission. Data for this chart will be provided by the regular periodic reports coming
from MIC and MOCs. The suggested main indicators for overall monitoring are shown in the
Attachment A, on project monitoring indicators.
14.       Project monitoring will be the responsibility of a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist in
the AGETIP office in Dakar. A statistician will be hired to work with this specialist about 2 months
per year (to assist in the design of the system, analysis and interpretation of data), along with one part-
time computer programmer and one part-time data entry clerk. This specialist would undertake field
checks and special monitoring surveys as needed to supplement routine information and to provide an
assessment of its quality.
i5.       Monthly, quarterly and annual progress reports are foreseen. However, reporting
frequency will depend on the relative importance of the data. Format for project data feedback will be
designed before project effectiveness, during the Monitoring and Evaluation Workshop.
16.       To forecast the food requirements for supplementary feeding, and to monitor the food
utilization rates, a simulation model will be designed before project effectiveness to provide estimates
of the average number of beneficiaries fed on any given day by a CNC center. The assunptions on
which this program will be based (estimated percentages of the population belonging in the various
target groups; initial prevalence of malnutrition and of children under-three not gaining adequate
weight (which determines eligibility for the supplementary feeding program); initial and subsequent
participation rates of children and pregnant and lactating women receiving food supplementation; the
growth monitoring and promotion and the IEC program; the frequency and regularity of attendance; the
probability of recovery after three and six months in the feeding program; the probability of relapse
both within and after six months following exit from the program) will be tested during the first year of
the project. Both volume and timing of food supplement production and delivery orders will be based
the computer forecasts. Adjustments will be made on the basis of the monitoring information.
III. EVALUATION
A. General
17.       The project objectives, namely to a) halt a further deterioration in the nutritional status of
the most vulnerable groups, b) improve household food security during critical periods of vulnerability,
and c) bring about efficient nutrition interventions through delegated management, provide the basic
framework and point of reference for all evaluative efforts. Two types of evaluations are envisaged:
The first type of evaluation is process-related, and will be conducted on an annual basis, the second
type of evaluation is impact evaluation (see the Evaluation Indicators in Attachment B).
IS.       The Technical Advisory Committee, which was established during the pilot phase, will
continue to ensure that the experience with nutrition projects accumulated in Senegal and elsewhere by



73
ANNEX Vm
Page 5 of 13
experts and international organizations in Senegal will be fully utilized in planning and carrying out the
project. Protocols of all surveys, studies, operations research and monitoring and evaluation systems
will be screened by members of the Technical Advisory Committee. The data and findings will be
discussed and reviewed with interested partners, before being made available to others.
B. Process Evaluation
19.       Process evaluations will identify the strengths and shortcomings in the project's
operational design and execution. Much of the information will be generated by the management
information system, the results of which will assist the management of AGETIP, the MOCs and MICs
to adapt the project mechanism to actual working conditions or more realistic perceptions about causes,
inputs and outputs. Evaluation findings will provide guidance in the expansion of the project to new
Districts and to the rural environmnent. The process evaluation format and contents will be drawn from
the activities described in the preceding monitoring section, final review of annual evaluation
indicators, and the recomendations of AGETIP.
20.       Several small qualitative beneficiary assessments will be undertaken to determine from the
beneficiary population how they perceive the purposes and interventions of the project and how it
assists them and their community. These assessments will use focus group techniques.
C. Impact Evaluation
21.       These evaluations focus on the impact of program activities in achieving Project
objectives. Using baseline survey data, including census and beneficiary assessment data, collected at
the beginning and during project execution, the impact evaluation exercise will assess program
effectiveness in modifying nutritional status, improving household food security, and affecting
beneficiary knowledge, behavior and practice. The evaluation studies will be contracted out, and
SANAS will be partly responsible for the quality control of these studies, namely in reviewing
protocols, participating in data interpretation, and maintaining a data set for their national nutrition
surveillance system. Evaluative and research findings will be presented to AGETIP, for review and
discussion with interested partners, prior to external dissemination.
22.       As a condition of negotiations, an agreement was reached on the Terms of Reference for
the quantitative impact evaluation studies. The technical organization which will carry out these impact
evaluations will probably be ORSTOM, a research institute located in Dakar which has a long-
standing experience in nutritional impact evaluation studies in Senegal and which employs Senegalese
researchers. ORSTOM is already engaged in a similar study in Pikine (one of the Project's target
areas). AGETEP contacted ORSTOM during project preparation, and an agreement in principle has
been reached to build on ORSTOM's existing resources in Pikine and Senegal, to adapt the evaluation
to the Project's objectives, and to work in other cities than Pikine.
23.       The first impact evaluation studies will be carried out after one year of project
implementation, comparing data with the baseline survey. Depending on the quality of these
evaluations and project needs, a decision will be taken as to if and when the next impact evaluation
would be conducted during project implementation. The insights gained from this impact evaluation



74
ANNEX VII
Page 6 of 13
will assist the National Comnission, AGETIP, and donor agencies in assessing the sustainability and
replicability of the AGETIP community nutrition approach.
24.       The following studies, surveys or assessments will contribute to the impact evaluation:
a. Ouantitative baseline studies based on a statistically valid cross-sectional household sample in
the target areas, in order to determine any changes that occur in the sample nutritional and short-term
household food status. (An appropriate control group sample will be used, and data collected in a few
non-targeted areas which have broadly sirniliar socio-economnic and nutritional profiles.) A sub-sample
of children in the target areas who benefitted from the food supplement program will be closely
followed in order to compare their nutritional status with those of non-beneficiaries. The purpose is not
to mount a scientifically controlled research study in which causality is affirmed; rather it is to produce
information on which to base reasonable inferences and judgments about the extent of nutritional
improvement or deterioration attributed to the project intervention. (To accomplish this study objective,
it will be important to include in the study design and execution team a nutritionist experienced in
anthropometric data collection and analysis.) Only a sample of neighborhoods in 3 out of 10 project
cities will be evaluated. Three cities which participated in the project in year one will be selected to
better analyze trends. Baseline sample surveys will be conducted in each neighborhood (project and
control) prior to implementation of the project. These surveys will begin about 2 months before a CNC
is operational in a neighborhood. Since it is expected that over the four years of the project life, the
population, both within and outside the project area, will in all probability experience a change in
standard of living, the control group would ensure that any improvement or deterioration in nutritional
status can be attributed to the project and not to overall socio-economic variables. It should be kept in
mind that the measurement of project impact will be affected by the considerable mobility (in- and out-
miigration) of the population in the targeted areas.
b. Three knowledge. attitude and practices surveys (KAP), will be carried out, the first conducted
before full project intervention begins, the second, before mid-term evaluation, and the last in the final
project year.
c. A cost-effectiveness study will be undertaken in the last year of project imnplementation to
determine project delivery costs, and, to the extent data is available or can be estimated, to compare
service delivery costs between public sector and AGETIP. The analysis will consider both food
delivery costs, IEC message delivery costs, and administrative costs. The results of this study will help
assess the sustainability as well as replicability of the project.
Evaluation results will be discussed during a series of meetings with different project collaborators,
from the ministry to the community level, and will be used to plan how to put them into practice. These
meetings will be participatory (ZOPP).



75
ANNEX vm
Page 7 of 13
D. Dissemination of evaluation results
25.       After completing data analysis and interpretation, AGETIP will prepare draft
recommendations outlining any needed remedial actions or project design corrections. These
recommendations wiDl then be transmitted to the National Commission for the Fight Agaisnt
Malnutrition where any major project design corrections will be discussed. The results of these
discussions and of the evaluation will be shared with the District Nutrition Committee, where remedial
actions will also be discussed. Subsequently, the results of all these consultations will be provided to
the MOCs, MICs and discussed with local nutrition committees. IDA will receive copies of the
studies, as they are completed. A yearly seminar will be held to discuss the implications of the
evaluation findings (from impact evaluation, monitoring systems and operational research) with
national and regional officials, project staff, IDA, KFW, WFP and other interested donors. The
project's news letter will serve as an information channel between AGETIP, the MOCs and the MICs.
IV. OPERATIONS RESEARCH
26.       Studies will be undertaken to answer those questions that neither the monitoring nor the
evaluation system address and for which a solution needs to be found to improve project effectiveness
or efficiency. The AGETIP Monitoring and Evaluation staff wi identify these topics from questions
raised by the data, from supervision reports or evaluation results. Before an operations research (OR)
effort is undertaken, approval from the Technical Advisory Committee will be sought and draft
proposals will be provided to IDA for its comments and non-objection. Before implementation,
AGETIP's Monitoring and Evaluation staff will have the nmain responsibility of either carrying out or
contrcting the OR, while ensuring that the design protocol is adequate.
27.       Based on experience during the pilot phase, immediate OR needs for the first year of the
project are to:
verify the number of feedings per day, ration density and size required to bring malnourished children
back to normal growth;
evaluate the adequacy of the trming modules proposed for MOCs and MICs, study the adequacy of
initial and periodic in-service training (including their timing) and analyze the appropriateness of the
staff workload, targets and schedules as they are currently conceived. This OR would include
evaluating the accuracy of child weighing, weight recording, interpretation and use of growth chart,
and the appropriateness of beneficiaries selection. This OR would also assess if the training finction
with the monitoring, supervision and evaluation functions are well-linked;
determine minimum information requirements, refine the proposed monitoring and supervision systems,
assess the adequacy of the CNC manual, Supervision Guide and Home Visit Guides, and suggest
improvements;
assess the coordination arrangements proposed with the health sector at. various levels;



76
ANN[EX vm
Page 8 of 13
undertake a preliminary analysis of determinants of relapse, dropping-out, irregular and
non-participation. This OR will not be confined to those eligible for the feeding prograrn, but will also
cover those who can benefit from the other key nutrition services;
determine the use of food supplement (as a supplement ? does it replace meals? is it used for other
purposes than intended ?);
evaluate the extent of present community participation and investigate how to increase it. Participation
may be expressed by contributing ideas, time, money, facilities, and/or labor.



77
ANNEX VlS
Page 9 of 13
ATTACHMENT A
PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
Level at which                          Indicators                      Level to which
data b coUlected                                                        data is
communicated
CNC                   Performance thresholds as % of semester           MOC (weekly);
objectives (indicating poor performance):         Local Steering
Committees
1. coverage of total children weighed: Less than
80%
2. malnourished children in feeding program: Less
than 90%
3. beneficiary children not gaining or losing
weight: More than 10%
4. drop-outs among malnourished children: More
than 10%
5. first relapses within 6 months after children
graduated: More than 20%
6. children graduated after 6 months of feeding:
Less than 80%
7. rations distributed: Less than 90%
8. all beneficiaries nt attending regularly the
CNC: More than 20%/.
9. children going from red to yellow, yellow to
green, and gaining weight (cven if still in yellow
zone)
10. Coverage of pregnant and lactating women
MOC                   1. number of children under three weighed/total   Local Stecring
nunber of children under three (a measure of      Committees;
coverage);                                        AGETIP (monthly).
2. % of children weighed in green, yellow and red;
3. number of children under three, pregnant and
lactating women in the feeding program (a
measure of availability);
4. number of children under three not gaining
adequate weight/number of children under three
weighed (a measure of quality of the program).
5. number of rations distributed by category of
beneficiary (a measure of utilization).
AGETIP                For project monitoring indicators, see table below  District Steering
Committee; National
Commisstion; SANAS;
Ban* WFP; Kf(W (yearly)



78
ANNEX VII
Page 10 of 13
SPECIFIC INDICATORS TO MONITOR THE PROJECT (1)
Component                                 Indicator                                            Y  E A  R  S
I        2          3          4
Nutrition      l. number of centers operational (by region; total)                  72        179        283        397
2. numnber of new MUC contracts signed                                72       107        104        114
3. number of new MOC contracts signed                                 8I1                             12
4. coverage:
a) number of children receiving food and other services        31.000    59.000     67.000     73.000
*                     b) number of children receiving growth monitoring              8.500    15.300      17.000     18.700
c) number of women receiving food and IEC                      19.000    31.000     33.000     37.000
d) number of women receiving EC                                8.500    15.300      17.000     18.700
5. number of new centers serving 350 or more beneficiaries            72       107        104        114
6. % of malnourished children reached against baseline of targeted    16        31         44         58
areas
7. a) % of pregnant and lactating women with universal health card   TBD       TBD        TBD        TBD
b) % of children with universal health card
8. number of rations distributed (nillion)                            1.3      2.3        2.6        2.9
9. total tonnage ofblended food produced(3)                          910       1 610     1 820      2 030
10. total tonnage delivered to the project                           910      1 610      1 820      2 030
11. total tonnage distributed to beneficiaries                       892      1 578      1 783      1 989
12. total tonnage lost (2) (2 % of production) (3)                    18       32         37         41
13. numiber of micro-entrepreneurs who produce food (3)                                  TBD        TED
14. tonnage of food produced by micro-nen  eurs (3) (4l                                  TED         508
15. % of food produced by microTentreprEeurs (3) (4)                                     TBD         25
16. quality control tests undertaken (3)                                                TB12  12  TD(3)   TBD. 3)
Household     1. action plan completed                                                        YES
Food Security  2. physical targets achieved for each activity (e.g. kilometers of feeder                TBD        IBD
roads conlstructed.
3. numTber of prson/days of work created                                                  TBD        TBD
Water          I. Population in targeted neighborhoods with improved acces to water  174000   348.000    522.000    696.000
(curnulative)
2. number of stand-pipes built (cumulative)                           30        60                   120
3. number of kilometers of network pipes (cumulative)              _ _10    _     _20      30         40
IEC/Social     I. % new CNCs with 20 or more IEC sessions/month                     100       100        100        100
mobilization
2. KAP studies done                                                    I         I                    I
3. number of neighborhood Steering Committees created                 13       TBD        TED        TBD
4. number of Community meetings held per neighborhood                 4         4          4          4
5. number of radio + TV spots                                         8         10         10         10
6. number of sessiona district steering Commnittee                    6         6          6          6
Training      I. number of MC stafftrained (cumulative)                             288       716        1132       1588
2. number of MOC staff tained                                         16        38         60         84
3. % of MC staffre-trained                                           100        60         60         60
4. % of MOC staff re-trained                                         100        60         60         60
5. number of opinion leaders ("relais") trained/neighborhood          2         2          2          2



79
ANNEX vm
Page I Iof 13
MIS           1. % of targetd neighborhoods having access to MIS                   100       lOO        100        100
computers and modems
2. number of MOC staff trained in MIS                                 16        38        60         84
3. % of MOC progress reports delivered on time                        80       80         80         80
4. number of feedback meetings (MIC/MOC/Steering Conminttee)          12        12        12         12
neighborhood
Management   I . number of qualitative studies                                       2         2         2          2
2. quantitative nutrition evaluation surveys                          6         3         3          3
3. % NMD operating costs to food & services costs                     10        a         S          S
4. % of MlCs contracts renewed                                        0         90        90         90
5. % of MOCs contracts renewed                                        0        80         80         80
6. number of meetings Agetip/Com.t6 Consultatif Restreint             12        12        12         12
7. number of meetings of National Commission                          4         4         4          4
TBD - To be detenined
(I)     Indicators for the first year of project operation have been confinmed with Government and AGETlP. All
indicators from second to fourth year of project operations are only indicative and will be updated, confumed and
agreed upon with Government and AGETIP annually during project supervision.
(2)     Reasons for tonnage lost include warehouses that break down, infestation by weevils, damaged or open scks,
theft, and expired shelf life.
(3)     WFP will provide the indicators.
(4)     Depends on the number of micro-entreprencurs participating in the production of a blended food.



80
ATTACHMENT B
EVALUATION INDICATORS
OBJEC1VE                 suboojectives          INDICATOR                                Type of            Source of data        Respoibic
evaluation                              Agen_y
1. Halt                  bmpoved access         a. % (number) of children and            Impact            ESP, Annual            ORSTOMI
detaicEaicu in           to nutrition and       prepnnt/lactating wome in trget                            nutrition sU*,         SANAS
nubitiil stan s of        bealth services       population rached by food                                   Supervision           AGEl1P
moat aunerable                                 sIpplment, growth monitoring, IEC.                           repos
b. nutritional status (W/;WIA,AIH)       Impact            Annual                ORSTOW
of chi     in target areas               Process           baseline               SANAS
c. % children going fom red to yellow                      nutrition
and yaliow to green and                  process           study
% of children gaining weight in the
last hree months inside
the program.
d. % children relapsing
Improve               c. KAP on nutrition, including:          Impact             KAP study             Consultant
nutiitioal/            - length of exclusive breastfeeding
hygiene                - ORT use
behavior               - Frequnc of feeding
Improve access        f % of households with potable water     impact             Annual                Consultant
to safe drinking      (at home connection; community well;                        beneficiaiy
.wt                   community pipe; otber)                                      assesment
2. Safeguard             Increase income        a. # of persons days of work provided    Process            Supervision           AGETIP
houshold food            and/or food            per target household (for men and for                      reports
icurity in critical                             women)
peiodsof
vlnability
b. amount of food/cash transfer          hnpact            Annual                 Consultant
.proided by the project                                    Bneficiary
Asscssment
* !1
0



81
c. number of meals per day:              Impact            idem                   idem
per target child
per target household
d. variety of food eaten by household   Impact             idem                   idem
3. Efficient                                    a. satisfaction of target population     Process           idem                   idem
nutrition                                       concerning project
interventions
through delegated
managemant
b. drop-out rate of beneficiaries        Process           Supervision            AGETIP
reports
c. satisfaction of other participants:   Process            Focus groups          Consultant
- micro-entrepreneurs
- MOCs
- Steering Committees
d. Number of CNCs created                Process           AGETIP                 AGETIP
reports
e. number of yearly meetings with        Process           idem                   idem
community by AGETIP
f. number of MIC, MOC created,           Process           Supervision            AGETIP
trained, contracted                                        report
g. drop-out rate of micro-               Process
entrepreneurs, MOCs
h. % AGETIP contracts with micro-        Process           idem                   idem
entrepreneurs, MOCs, not renewed
i. cost-effectiveness of project versus  Impact            Special study          Consultant
public sector service delivery
j. number of women producing the         Beneficiary       Impact                 Consultant
weaning food themselves                  Ass.
k. cost/beneficiary                     Impact             AGETIP annual          AGETIP
_________________                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~report
00
x
0
-h



SENEGAL
Community Nutrition
Project Cost Summary a/
-  %   % Total
(FCFA Million)               (US$ Million)        Foreigin    Base
Local  Foreign     Total     Local    Foreign    Total   Exchang(je   Costs
1. Nutrition Program              8,451.4    431.0   8,882.4      14.6      0.7      15.3      5.0      60.0
2. Rural Household Food Security    662.4     34.5    696.9        1.1      0.1       1.2       5.0      5.0
3. Watew Program                    341.6   1,285.1   1,626.7      0.6      2.2       2.8      79.0     11.0
4. Training                         635.3    235.0    870.2        1.1       0.4      1.5      27.0      6.0
5. IEC & Social Mobilization        754.0    161.6    915.6        1.3      0.3       1.6      28.0      6.0
6. Monitoring & Evaluation          487.1    406.0    893.1        0.8      0.7       1.5      43.0      6.0
7. AGETIP Management                391.9    170.5    562.5        0.7      0.3       1.0      30.0      4.0
8. PPF Advance                      232.0     58.0    290.0        0.4      0.1       0.5      20.0      2 0
Total Baseline Costs              11,955.7   2,781.7  14.737.4.   20.6       4.8      25.4     19.0    100.0
Physical Contingencies              163.0    136.8    299.8        0.3      0.2       0.5      46.0      2.0
Price Contingencies               1,160.0     58.0   1,218.0       2.0      0.1       2.1      13.0      8.0
Total PROJECT COSTS               13,278.7   2,976.5  16,255.2     22.9       5.1     28.0
/ All costs are net of taxes and duties.
OQ
tDM
rl 
X0 ><



SE NE CA
1HM1MI1v NUTRITION
Table 1. NUTITIION PROCGMt /a
betailed Costs
tinit                                             Parawters (in X)
Cost                                              Phy.       Gross   Su_ti   O!ylsiom
Quht iss             (FCFA             Base Cost (USS '000)            Cont. For.  Tax              [xpenditure
-unit        JU96L       M1996  Total '000.    1995    1996    199      1995   lotat  Rate  LtEch.  ate  CS   nt    ArcoLut
I. a.wstfhnt Costs
A. FOOD /b          .      lUll    910 1.638 1,020 2.002 6,370  473.6   743.1  1,337.5  1,486.1  1,634.7 5,201.4  0.0  9.0  0.0    Util         F(KQOjA
g. MATERIALS
SCALES  FURIITURE       1UNI      72  107  104  114  397  547.5    68.0   101.0    96.2   107.6   374.8  5.0  25.0  0.0   Nttu              tOOSJEA
SUftIES                 UNIT      72  179  283  397  931    155    19.2    47.8    15.6   106.1   248.8  S.0  25.0  0.0    iut              IAMtS_A
Ssbhtotai IPATERIALS                                                      87.2   148.8   113.    213.7   623.6
c. PERSOIKL
ET.PEIENEUIIS           UTll      72  179  213  397  931   2, 80    357.5   888.8  1,405.2  1,971.3  4,622.9  0.0  0.0  0.0    Iul            fi LA
SUPERISIRN OF CENTERS  UNIT        a   18   29   40   95  4,800    66.2   149.0   240.0   331.0   786.2  0.0  0.0  0.0    tuil               ILl1A
Subtotal PERSONEL                                                        423.7  1,037.8  1,645.2  2,302.3  5~,409.1
D. SPECIAl ftUI           UlUIl       1    1    I    1    4 145.000   250.0   250.0   250.0   250.0 555. 0  0.0  10.0  0.0  OiIul                IOD JA
total liweetment Costs                                                      1,504.0  2,774.1  3,555S.2 4,400.8 12,234.1
II. Recurrent Casts
a. O9 RAIin&t COTs        AIVIT      72  179  283  397  931    960   119.2   296.3   468.4   657.1  1,541.0  5.0  0.0  0.0    MUI                lU _IA
B.  TUI PERSONIIEL        A11W    72  179  2113  397  931    840    104.3   259.2   409.9   575.0  1,348.3  5.0  0.0  0.0    MIui               SAI IA                      ao
C. TRAISO  FOOD cCTRACT  910 1,638 1,820 2,002 6,370    17.4    27.3    49.1    54.6    60.1   191.1  5.0  10.0  0.0    mul                     (AN t A
Tota l Recurrlent Costs                                                    i~! 604.7   932.9   292.1 j~0
Total                                                                       1,754.7 iI;i783 4,488.0 5,692.9 15,314.5
%a All costs are rwt of taxes and d.aties.
Nb nctudes SOX of trtspst of food froa production units to ClCs.
mn Apr 10 11:06:3  1995 
D
.rio
to t.-
ti,
Co >:-



SENEGAL
COFUllY  NUTRITION
Table 2. RURAL HOUJSEHOLD fOOD SECURITY /a
Detailed Costs
Unit                                             ParEaeters (in X)
Cost                                             Phy.        Gross    Staiwmary D visi, ov.
Quantities            (fCFA            Base Cost (USS '000)             Coni. for.  tax       Sa                 I Ipe kii e
Unit  1995  1996  1997  198   otal '000)   1995    1996    1997    1998    Total  Rate  Exch. Rate   Corpunent    Acc ,unr
I. Investment Costs
A. Consultant Services  motint        1     1     -      -     2 58,000   100.0   100.0                  -   200.0   0.0  10.0   0.0   fooD          FOOD IA
B. Pilot Progrm           Unit       -           20    20    40  6,322         -        -   218.0   218.0   436.0   0.0   5.0   0.0    FOOD          fOUD IA
C. Equipont               Unit       -            4     5      9 11,400                      78.6    98.3   176.9   0.0  10.0   0.0   fOOD           FOoD_LA
Total Investmnt Costs                                                          1000 0 1000   2966   316 3   812 9
II. lecurrent Costs
A. Operating Costs        Unit        -     -    20    20    40  5,278         -        -   182.0   182.0   364.0   5.0   0.0   0.0    FOOD          OM I[A
S. Veh OAK/Depreciation Amount       -      -     4      9    13    900        -        -     6.2    14.0    20.2   5.0   0.0   0.0    FOOD          OEM tA
C. Vehicle Inswurace    Amount              -     4     9    13    200         -        -     1.4      3.1     4.5   5.0   0.0   0.0    FO1JD        OEM IA
Total Recurrent Costs                                                               -           189.6   199.1   388.7
Total                                                                           100.0   100.0   486.2   515.3 1,201.6
%a All costs are net of taxes and duties.
Ibn Apr 10 11:Otl48 1995
'J00
clu
'
p-a'
0  i
OO-1



SENEGAL
CaSmiTv NUTRIION
Table 3. lTER MID SUITATION /a
Detaited Costs
Unit                                            Paramters (in X)
Cost                                           Phy.         Gross    Suiary VDvi',oIH
uuntjties               (FCFA           Base Cost (US$ '000)1            Cont. For.   Tax              ExpeIII t
Unit   1995   19W6   19t  199J   Total  '000)   1995    1996    1997    1998    Total  Rate  Exch. late   Conprten                  -
1. linvtumt Costs
A. WORS: WAIER
Extawling Pipas "II          1      2       2      2      7 13,920    24.0   48.0    48.0    48.0   168.0  10.0  79.0  0.0  WAT&SAM           uKS EA
Pipe Links      AMOUNT  3,72s  7,450  7,450  7,450 26,075        50   321.1   642.2  642.2   642.2 2,247.8  10.0  79.0   0.0  UAIZSAN         uKf IA
Staidipee       DIUT        30    152    152    152    486    464    24.0   121.6  121.6   121.6   388.a  10.0  79.0  0.o   WAI&SAM           WKS LA
Total                                                                         369.1   i11.8   811.8   811.8 2,04.6
%a All costs ore net of teies *nd duties.
Non Ar 10 11:08:55 1995
CoD
m
0 >4
OD ',
J-.. 
O X
0>'
<F X



SENEGAL
CONMiU ITYT NUTIT1ION
Table 4. IRAINING /a
Detailed Costs
Unit                                           ParaMneters (in X)
Cost                                           Phy.         Gross    Sswai__iyuv,sions
Quantities            (FCFA          Base Cost (USS '0O0              Cont. For.  lax                Espenditure
nit  1995  1996  197  1998  Total '000)  1995    1996    1997    1998    lotal  Rate  Exch. Rate   Conaowwnt    Ac, ount
I. Investment Costs
A. TRAINING FOR NIJRTIOt PtOGRAN1 Unit  1.875 1,87S 1t,75 1.875 7,500    58   187.5   187.5   187.5  187.5  750.0   0.0  27.0   0.0  WA&IRG                IRGJA
D. TRAINING FOR WITEB PROGRAM      Unit    750   750   750   750 3.000    58    7s.0    75.0    7s.0    75.0   300.0   0.0  27.0   0.0   IAAIRG            IRG LA
C. tRAINING FOR IEC                Unit    938   938   938   938 3,752    58    93.8    93.8    93.8    93.8   375.2   0.0  27.0  0.0   IA&IRG              IRG_ IA
0. IMACENENT TRAINING             SENINAR   188   188   188   188  752    58    18.8    18.8    18.8    18.8    75. 2   0.0  27.0   0.0  IALIRG             IKG LA
Total                                                                                   375.1   375.1   375.1   375.1 1,500.4
\a Ail Costs are tket o1 taxes mid duties.
Mmn Apr 10 11:09:00 1995                                                                                                                           _
Pz
co
ID .
o ;<
ODn



SENEGAL
coeemi1y mIATmalION
Table S. SOCIAL NItLZATIEO  and IEC /a
Detailed Costs
Unit                                          P?,r.arters (s n 
Cost                                           Phty.       Li ,Io    _S...uary Divisions
Quantities             (FCFA            Base Cost (USS OM)             Cont. for.   lA               Dxperd itur 
unit   1995   1996   1997   1998  Total  '000)   1995    1996    1997    1998    Total Rate  Etch. Rat.  _(caxunent    Account
1. Investment Costs
A. Ptaming  nd Supervision
Supervisian: lEC/SN activities       Amoaint     I       1      1      1      4 10,000    17.2    17.2    17.2   17.2   69.0   0.0  31.0  0.0          Ilt:      IEC EA
Evaluation of SN/IEC plans           Atount       1      1      1      1      4 10.000    17.2    17.2    17.2    17.2   69.0   0.0  31.0   0.0 o       EC       [EC LA
Subtotat Piuming md Suqsrvision                                                               34.5   34.5    34.5    34.5   137.9
B. Social Mobilization
Visits to Commnity Leaders            Unit     200    250    300    350  1,100      30    10.3    12.9   15.5    18.1    56.9   0.0  31.0  0.0    lEL            Ii  [A
Diss. Docs to lo. Persons            Atount       1      1      1      1      4  1,750      3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0    12.1   0.0  31.0  0.0    lit          ItC [A
Field visits: local teaders          Atmt        1       1      1      1      4  9,800    16.9    16.9    16.9   16.9   67.6   0.0  31.0   0.0   I1(            ItC iA
Sensib. rallies: group leaders        Unit      1S      20     25     30     90    250      6.5     8.6    10.8    12.9    38.8   0.0  31.0  0.0    Itc          IIC iA
C.mpnity atabilization                Unit     300    300    300    300  1,200    1S0    77.6    77.6 _77.6   77.6   310.3   0.0  31.0  0.0    llc               It. IA
Subtotal Social Mobitization                                                                 114.3   119.1   123.8   128.5  485.7
C. IEC in the CCs and Caoimity
Briefing of Steering Cm.              Unit      20      25     30     35    110    900    31.0    38.8   46.6   54.3   170.7   0.0   0.0   0.0    IIC            IIC tA
Meilborfioo'd Cult. Activities        Unit       9      10     1S    20      54  1,022    15.9    17.6   26.4    35.2   95.2   0.0  31.0  0.0    EIC            IEC IA              o
Visits to le snwce Persons            Unit       9      10     15    20      54  1,022    15.      17.6   26.4    35.2    95.2   0.0  31.0  0.0        lCt       IiC [A
Subtotal IEC in the CiCa dmi Commity                                                         62.8    74.0   99.4   124.8  361.0
0. neficiary Consultation
Canaut.t with reticent benif.         Unit       6      10     10    10    36  1,117    11.6    19.3    19.3    19.3   69.3   0.0  31.0   0.0    Itc             IEC LA
E. iAdis Activities
Briefing of ciunicators               Unit       2       4      4      4     14  1,500     5.2    10.3   10.3   10.3   36.2   0.0  31.0  0.0    EIC              IlL tA
Presa articles                       Amount      1       1      2      2      6  4,000     6.9      6.9    13.8    13.8   41.4   0.0  31.0  0.0    IiC          IEC IA
Prarati.n of radio. TV spots          Unit       3       3      3      3     12 5,000    25.9   25.9    25.9   25.9  103.4   0.0  31.0  0.0    EtC               It IA
Diffusion of radio, TV spots          Unit       a      10     10     10     38  1,250    17.2    21.6    21.6   21.6    81.9   0.0  31.0  0.0    EtC            II ItA
Subtotal Sadis Activities                                                                    55.2    64.7    71.6    71.6  262.9
F. IEC sort Nateriats
ae1 1loses: grmith monit./RVO         Unit      45     45     45      45    180    160    12.4    12.4    12.4   12.4   49.7   0.0  31.0  0.0    Efc            IEC IA
leprod. on 8reastfeeding              init      38      38     38     38    152    100     6.6      6.6     6.6     6.6    26.2   0.0  31.0  0.0    IEC          IIC IA
Video, NiD, grouth mmnitoring         Unit       1       1      1      1      4  5,000     8.6      8.6     8.6     8.6    34.5   0.0  31.0  0.0    LIt         lIC IA
Video with professional glroup        Unit       1       1      1      1      4  5,000     8.6      8.6     8.6     8.6    34.5   0.0  31.0  0.0       EIC       ItC IA
T-Shirts                              unit  5.000  5,000  5,000  5,000 20,000        2    17.2    17.2    17.2    17.2   69.0   0.0  31.0   0.0    EIC          EIC IA
iteprod. of existing m_terials       Amount      1       1      1      1      4  1,000      1.7     1.7     1.7     1.7     6.9   0.0  31.0  0.0        EC      Eli. IA
Subtotax  IEC Suport Hateriats                                                               55.2    55.2    55.2    55.2   220.7
G. Equipmnt
Audio/Video Equipmnt                  Unit      1S             15      -    30    794    20.5              20.5 _          41.1   0.0  31.0  0.0    ItL         EIE  [A
Total                                                                                            354.0  366.7  424.2  433.8 1,578.6
\a All costs are not of taxes and duties.
Non Apr 10 11:09:07 1995                                                                                                                             --                                  >



SENEGAL
CtllUNITV NUTRITION
Table 6. AGEIIP MANAGEMENT /a
Detailed Costs
Uini t                                Parm.eteb  inX
Cost                                  Phy.        Gross   Susat I Y      ii sti ,
owntities             (FCFA       Base Cost (USS '000)       Cont. for.   Tax                Expendiituse
Unit   1995  1996  1997  1998  Total 000)  1995  1996  1997  1998  To!aL Rate  fxch. Rate   Caonent    Ac-oont
1. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistane.
Coordinator                   mnth        12    12    12    12    48  1,500  31.0  31.0  31.0  31.0 124.1   0.0  45.0   0 0          NIU       ffE FA
Finwneielt  mger             month         -          12    12    24    600       -     -  12.4  12.4  24.8   0.0  45.0   0         N wU        tEE EA
Accountant                    month       12    12    12    12    48    600  12.4  12.4  12.4  12.4  49.7   0.0  45 0   0.0          NMU        ELE EA
Nutritionists                 mnth       24    24    24    24    96    600  24.8  24.8  24.8  24.8  99.3   0.0  45.0   0.0           N         ItE-f_A
Training specialist           month      12    12    12    12    48    600  12.4  12.4  12.4  12.4  49.7   0-0  45.0   0.0    NMU              Iff tA
IEC Specialist                month      12    12    12    12    48    600  12.4  12.4  12.4  12.4  49.7  5.0  60.0   0.0  lm                  HC IA
Engineer                      month       12    12    12    12    48  1,200  24.8  24.8  24.8  24.8  99.3   0.0  45.0   0.0          weU        FE[ IA
MIE Specialist                month       12    12    12    12    48    600  12.4  12.4  12.4  12.4  49.7   0.0  45.0   0.0          weU       FEE _A
Sototas  lechnicat Assistuve                                                     130.3 130.3 142.8 142.8 546.2
B. EQUIPMENT
Couter                         UNIT       4      -                  4  2,500  17.2      -               17.2  10.0  2 .0   0.0    NW)J        GOS [A
Printer                        UNIT       2            -            2  1,700   5.9      -      -     -   5.9  10.0  25.0   0.0       NWJ      GOLWS IA
Photocopier                    UNIT        1          -            1 5.600   9.7       -      -     -   9.7  10.0  25.0   0.0       Neu      GOODS EA
414                            tliI T     4                         4 17,000 117.2      -      -     - 1i7.2  10.0  25.0   0.0       N.U      GOODS IA                                     o
Motorcycles                    UlIT       6                         6    400   4.1                   -  4.1  10.0  25.0   0.0    NBU          GOODS [A
Telepunes                      WIil       5      .                  5     60   0.5      -                0.5  10.0  25.0   0.0    NW.         GOODS FA
Furniture                     UNIT        5      -                  5    970   8.4      -      -     - 8.4  10.0  25.0   0.0        NM        GOODS JA
Subtotat EQUIPIENT                                                               163.0      -     -     - 163.0
Total lIreatont Costs                                                                293.4 130.3 142.8 142.8 709.2
11. lecurrant Costs
A. Operating Costs
Itent  I Utilities            AMNT        12    12    12           36    500  10.3  10.3  10.3       - 31.0   5.0   0.0   0.0    kml           OM1A
Vehicle Opr. 8 Mint.         AlNT        12    12    12       -    36     75   1.6   1.6   1.6       .   4.7   5.0   00.   0.0      N)U        OLMjA
Vehicle Insurnee             AlNT        10    10    10    10    40    200   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4  13.8   5.0   0 0   0.0          NMU        OM_(A
Secretary                     Month      12    12    12    12    48    600  12.4  12.4  12.4  12.4  49.7   5.0   0.0   0.0    HISU             SAt-tA
Driwer                        Month      24    24    24    24    96    600  24.8  24.8  24.8  24.8  99.3   5.0   0.0   0.0           NWJ       SAt tA
Psrsaml  inurme <e          Nth/pers    36    36    36    36   144    250  15.5  1S.5  15.5  15.5  62.1   5.0   0.0   0.0           mmU        OEM-EA
Total Mtacurrant Costs                                                               I 61.1  68.1  68.1  56.2 260.5
Total                                                                                 361.5 196.4 210.9 199.0 969.7
A ll costs  re nat of tams  nd duties.
Imm 4r 10 W109:20 1995
UQ
La
rn
0  :1



SENEGAL
CON " IIIT NUTRITION
Table 7. WIITORIIIG & EVALUATION /a
Detailed Costs
Unit                                            Parmeters (in %)
Cost                                            Phy.        Gross    Samary Doifis
Quantities            (FCFA             ease Cost (USS '000)           Cont. For.   Tax               E       itia.re
Unit   15  1996  1997  1M    Total  '000)    1995    1996    1997    1998    Total  Rate Exch. Rate  Cinvx>nent    Accout
1. Irwestmnt Costs
A. Monitoring
feighborbod Census               CONTRACT    14    Is   15       a    52    1,740    42.0    45.0    45.0   24.0   156.0   0.0  45.0   0.0    MAE           fEE_EA
Oeratioms Research               CONTRACT     4     4      4     4    16    2.320    16.0   16.0    16.0    16.0    64.0  0.0  45.0   0.0    taE            fEE_EA
shbtotei Monitoring                                                                     58.0    61.0    61.0    40.0  220.0
B. Evalut ian
Project Launch Uorkshop          CONITRACT     1     -           -     1    1.740      3.0       -                     3.0   0.0  45.0  0.0       MLt       FEE EA
HU  Uorikeht                     CONTIRACT     1     1           -    2    1,740       3.0     3.0       -        -    6.0   0.0  45.0   0.0    MiE         IEt_EA
Quantitative Studies             CONTRACT     6      3     3     3    15   13,98   142.7    71.4    71.4    71.4  356.8  0.0  45.0   0.0    MAE             IEE  A
KM Stadies                       CONTRACT     1      1          1    3    4,640      8.0      8.0       -    8.0   24.0   0.0  45.0   0.0        MU        iiE EA
Focus Gra4                       CONTiRACI    3     3      3     3    12    2,320    12.0    12.0    12.0   12.0   48.0   0.0  45.0   0.0         MIE       IEE_JA
ZOPP Urkshop                     CONTRACT     -            1     1    2    2.900                 -    5.0    5.O   10.0   0.0  45.0   0.0    MAE            f _EA
Cest-effectiveness evaluation   CONTIACT             *     -     3     3    2,320        -               -   12.0    12.0  0.0  45.0   0.0    MAE t  FtEEA
Subtotal fEvaluation                                                                    168.7   94.4   88.4   108.4  459.8
C. Peram uel
Tdicnical Assistant              CONTRACT     6     6     6      5    23    9.860   102.0   102.0   102.0   85.0  391.0  0.0  45.0   0.0    MAE             iEE EA
nonitoring of Living Condlitions CONTRACT     1      1     1     1    4   21,750    37.S    37.5    37.5    37.5  150.0   0.0  45.0   0.0         MiE       tEEJLA
Cttttrr Specialist               COINTRACI    6     4      2     2    14    1,500    15.5   10.3       5.2     5.2   36.2   0.0  45.0   0.0    MAE          FEE  A
Statistician                     CONTRACT     2     2      2     2     8    2,320     8.0      8.0     8.0     8.0    32.0  0.0  45.0   0.0    MAE          FEE EA
Data entry clerk                 CONTIACT     3      3     3     3    12      SOO      2.6     2.6     2.6     2.6    10.3  0.0  45.0   0.0    MAE          FEEEEA
Sabtotal Perstnurt                                                                      165.6   160.4   155.3   138.3  619.6
0. MIS: Equipment
C.t er                             UNiil      3      -     -     -    3  2,419.5    12.5         .       .            12.5  0.0  25.0   0.0       ME       GOODS_EA
i4ni-Cqmuters                      UNIT      11      -     -     -    11    1,172    22.2        -                    22.2  0.0  25.0   0.0    MAE         GOODS EA
Hui-printter                   UIT         I                        I -  -  1 8,908.8    15.4                 -    15.4   0.0  25.0   0.0    MAE        GODS_IA
Printer                            UNIT       S                        5      440     3.8        -       -             3.8   0.0  25.0   0.0    MAE        GOLDSEA
Main Setvetr * Mod: iSID             IT       1                        1 22,109.3   38.1  *    -         -            38.1   0.0  25.0   0.0      MAE      iOODS EA
Main Sorver: SMS     SP           iUiT        1                        I .  1   12,559    21.7   -       .       -   21.7   0.0  25.0   0.0   KME          GOODS _A
mini-servr # Mode                  UNIT       2            -           2  1,259.3     4.3        -       -       -    4.3   0.0  25.0   0.0    MAE         GOODS_EA
Softwae: U                         UNIT       1                  -     1   12,486    21.5               .       .   21.5   0.0  25.0   0.0    MAE         GOODS EA
Software for netuork               UNIT       2     -                  2      695     2.4        -       .       .    2.4   0.0  25.0   0.0       AE       GOODS EA
Seftwwre: NIS proem                UNiT       2   0.8   0.4  0.67  3.87    3,750    12.9      5.2      2.6     4.3   25.0   0.0  25.0   0.0    MAE         COOS EA
Sa*total HIS: Equipnt                                                                  154.9     5.2      2.6     4.3   167.0
Total                                                                                       547.2   321.0   307.2   291.0 1,466.4
Xo All costs are _Et of taes end duties.
Mmn Apr 10 11:09:31 1951
iQ
'-a



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Community Nutrition Project
Disbiwstmnt Pofoli/IProf de Debowsrnts                                                                               _
100%           | -     Community Nutritioir Project   -    Regioural SectoF Profile I
isabuts.m.nttI             P,otld/                                             I                                                                                  .
a7ntJ      Xvit                             _ ~~~~90%-                                                                            -+
IDA fiscal Vws                        jgional
__    qu_t_ S   Ity Q uartr  Cumulative   Credit   Sector                           80%
Ams                                             Stectr a                            0            
hudateivs ADA of                                     rach w
trawsts       Aw tamu.t,o  Cumwwltit,   CAIet    reiooA M,                         70%
sisi ni.ionl  SS u        t#         t%n
1996        1               9        09        5%           0%
2             09          6       10%          2%                     8   60%  -
36            09        27        15%          3%
3 6        4             o 9       3.6       20%          5-    50% 
19i         1              1.4       5.0      27%          6%
2             1.4       6 4       35%         61%                     -                                               /
3             1.4       7.8      43%          10%                          40%  -
5.6         4              1.4       9 2      51%          12%                    a
3St         I              1.4      10.6      58%          14%                         3                                  7 -
2             1.4      12 0      66%          16%                          30%
3             1.3      13 3       73%         Is%                     ,A
5.4         4              1.3      14.6 t     0%          20%1                        20%  -
1999        I             0.9       15.5      65%         22%           F              2% 
2             0.9      16 4       90%         26%
3             0.9      17.3       95%         30%                          10%
3.6         4              0.9      16.2     100I          34%
1996                     1997                    1998                     1999
Fiscal Year (Exercicel
( C.
aD rl'
'f



91
ANNEX XI
Page 1 of I
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.      Supervision will be carried out according to the supervision plan below. The expected targets to
monitor are presented in Table I of the report. These targets are tentative, as the project is demand-driven
and needs to respond to beneficiary requests.In addition to these quantitative targets, supervision mrissions
should examine the following:
Coordination between AGETIP and SANAS
Performance of the National Coordinator
Coordination with the local steering conimittees ("cornit6s de pilotage")
Effectiveness of the IEC program in communicating to target population
Integration of the results of beneficiary assessments and of operational research
into daily project implementation.
Implementation of the monitoring and evaluation system.
2.      A tentative project supervision schedule is:
Fiscal Year                     Activities           Skill requirements     Staffweeks
1996
July                  Project launching workshop    TK- DO, Nutritionist;         4
November              Examine project progress                                    11
March                 Review pending issues       TM                              7
Visit project sites         Nutritionist
1997
July                  Examine project progress    TM                              8
November              Review pending issues       Nutritionist                    4
Visit project sites
March                 Idem                        TM                              3
Mid-term review             Nutritionist                    3
1998
July                  Examine project progress    TM                              8
November              Review pending issues       Nutritionist                    4
Visit project sites
March                 Idem                        TM                              3
Nutritionist                   3
1999
July                  Examine project progress    TM                              8
November              Review pending issues       Nutritionist                    4
Visit project sites
March                 Idem                        TM                              3
Aanual review               Nutritionist                    3
NOTE: TM   Task Manger, DO = Disbursement Officer, Po = Procurement Officer



COM M UNITY NUTRITION PROJECT
ORGANOGRAM
NATIONAL COMMISSION OF FIGIIT AGAINST MAL,NUTJRITIION|
SONES   J
MOII/SANAS
DISTRICT              LOCAL
W F P  - - ---- -ACETIP/NMD   _  STEERINC   _ _  NEIGIIBORHOOD
COMMITTEES        COMMI ITEES
FOOD
SUPPLEMENT    ITA         CSA        j    MOC    1
PRODUCERS | t         X                                              *E
BENEFICIARIES



93
ANNEX XIII
Page 1 of I
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
AGETIP. 1994. Programme de l'atelier de planification du projet. Dakar, Senegal
AGETIP. 1995. Mission d'Evaluation du P.N.C. Dakar, Senegal.
Athie, Cheikh T. 1994. Etude sur l'identification des ONG, GIE et autres groupements de base
pour la composante nutrition dans les quartiers pauvres. AGETIP, Dakar.
Christine, Nare. 1994. Rapid Assessment. AGETIP, Dakar.
Coopers & Lybrand. 1994. Etude Organisationnelle et Juridique, AGETIP, Dakar.
Guiro, Amadou Tidiane. 1994. Etude des habitudes alimentaires des population cibles du Projet
de nutrition communautaire au Sen&gal. AGETIP, Dakar.
Malick, El Hadji. 1994. Etude sur la mobiisation sociale, les experiences UNICEF, AGETIP,
PRITECH. AGETIP, Dakar.
McLellan, lain. 1994. IEC/Social Mobilisation Strategy for Senegal Community Nutrition
Project. AGETIP, Dakar.
Sadio, Abdoulaye and Sabar Diop. 1994. Determination des zones de pauvrete et de malnutrition
au Senegal. AGETIP, Dakar.
Sail, Guelaye. 1994. Rapport du consultant en nutrition/sante. AGETIP, Dakar.
SANAS. 1991. Progranune National de Nutrition, Plan d'Action 1991-96. Ministere de la Sante
Publique. Senegal.
Sene, Helene. 1994. Etude de base preparatoire, Document synthese. AGETIP, Dakar.
UNICEF. 1992. Plan d'operations du programme de cooperation en faveur des enfants et des
femmes au Senegal. Senegal.
USAID. 1993. Nutrition of nhfants and Young Children in Senegal. Africa Nutrition Chartbooks.
Macro Intemational Inc., Columbia, Md., USA.
Wurdemann, Willem. 1994. Local Production of a Blended Food in Senegal for Use in the
Community Nutrition Project. AGETIP and World Food Program, Dakar.






The boundaries, colors,                                                                                                                                                                      SENEGAL
denominations and  any                                                                                           MAURITANIA
other informoihon shown                                                   $-"i                                                                                         COMMUNITY NUTRITION PROJECT
on  this map  do  not                                                                   \-e-L
imply, on  the  part of                                                                                                                                                                T L -or         O      F,,. ,   OF (,T
The World  Bank  Group,                                                        ,       n                                                                                               TAArEt  C lIES FOR THE FIRST YEAR OF PROIKT
status of any  territory,                                                                                                                                                         0    VILLOGES
or any  endorsement
or acceptonce of soch                                                                                                                                                                   REG ON. CAPITALS
boundaries.
-      *     ~~~NATIONAL CAP TA~ S
," w.< a 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ' - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
SOtI(-.  ?  >   .   .u    -  ,,..  ISOHYETS I MILLIMEFTFRS
REG ON BOUNDAR ESt
5o-.      -  NrdTFRNATIOCNAL BOLUEAR ES
ATLANTIC                                                                                                                   -        N
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    \ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~p1
CARVERT                                                         TO1 00  LAO    E 2 .
DAKAR           r Q3'                          oO Vi
RvJlloqLleEnd            e                            ''                                                    _                                                         f'sMALI                         , 
.b- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~A
Mbou  '     R    j/  FAI' isT   C7{,.                            .                                                                                              , t_
BANJUL                                                                                                              . n
tANU     THE GAMBIA                            1    -                                                  0
IAAURITAN4iA
-                                                      ;   <                       .<n-s
J   N-                             .3                                                                                     0      4,EF(1KF    
DAKAR                   0\   ,Bn )r                                                                             wlo                                      t                                                                      JD
S       SENEGAL                                               <'soon?
THE                          MALI                                                                                                                                                                                            5
R 55NA*              Q.                                    IN Z DR        /r?waKduo
GAMBIAiJIEA-K ~d--~
ST                      2-k,JIN5 BISA'                                                                              GUINEA-BISSAU
G tJ-NE A                                                                                                                                                   G U I N E A












