Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21429
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27230; PPFI-P8900)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.7 MILLION (US$ 18.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A COMMUNITY NUTRITION PROJECT
July 17, 2001
Human Development U
Country Department 14
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2, 2000)
Currency Unit = CFA
CFA 1.00 = US$ 0.0013
US$ 1.00 = CFA 764
FISCAL YEAR
July I  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP       Agence d'Execution des Travaux d¶'nter t Public et contre le Sous-Emploi
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CBC          Communications for Behavior Change
CFA          Communaute Financiere de l'Afrique
CNLM         Commission National de Lutte contre la Malnutrition
CSA          Conseil Securite Alimentaire (Food Security Committee)
DHS          Demographic and Health Survey
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
lEC          lnfonnation, Education and Communication
KAP          Knowledge, Attitude and Practice
KfW          Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LSC          Local Steering Committee
MIC          Micro-Entreprise
MICS         Multi Indicator Cluster Survey
MOC          Maitre d'Oeuvre Communautaire
MOH          Ministry of Health
MTR          Mid-term review
NGO          Non-Governmental organization
PAIN         Paquet d'Activites lntegres de Nutrition
PCD          Project Concept Document
PNC          Projet Nutrition Communautaire
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SNAN         Service National d'Alimentation et Nutrition
SONES        Societe National des Eaux (National Water Company Senegal)
WFP          World Food Program
WHO          World Health Organization
QAG          Quality At Entry
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:   John Mclntire
Sector Manager:   Alexandre V. Abrantes
Task Team Leader:   Anwar Bach-Baouab



CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Perfonnance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              15
6. Sustainability                                                                  19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   20
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 23
9. Partner Comments                                                               24
10. Additional Information                                                        26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              34
Annex 8. Executive summary of the Borrower's evaluation report                     35






ProjectID: P035615                                        Project Name: COMM NUTRITION
Team Leader: Claudia Rokx                                I7L Unit: HDNHE
ICR Type: Core ICI?                                       Report Date: July 17. 2001
1. Project Data
Nanme: COMM NUTRITION                                LJC/TF Number: IDA-27230;
PPFI-P8900
Country/Department: SENEGAL                                              Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: HN - Nutrition
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/16/1994                              Effective:  12/14/1995         12/14/1995
Appraisal:  01/18/1995                                MTR:  10/01/1998           10/01/1998
Approval:  05/16/1995                              Closing: 06/30/2000          06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVT OF SENEGAL/AGETIP
Other Partners:  World Food Program (WFP), Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW)
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        Jean-Louis Sarbib
C.ountrv Manager:    John Mclntire                              Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:      Alexandre Abrantes                         Ok Pannenborg
Team Leader at ICR:   Anwar Bach-Baouab                         Leslie Pean
ICR Primar Author:   Claudia Rokx
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainahilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Development Obiective:
The project development objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report, were to:(a) halt a further
deterioration in the nutritional status of the most vulnerable groups (children under three and pregnant and
lactating women) in targeted poor urban neighborhoods; (b) provide potable water to under-serviced
neighborhoods targeted under the nutrition program; and (c) enhance household food security among poor
urban population in targeted poor rural areas during critical periods of vulnerability. In addition, the
project had specific implementation objectives: (a) to demonstrate the feasibility of targeted, efficient and
cost-effective delivery of community nutrition interventions; and (b) to execute a poverty-oriented program
through AGETIP (Agence d'Ex6cution des Travaux d'Interet Public contre le Sous-Emploi), a private
agency, rather than a line ministry, assigning delegated contract management to local entrepreneurs such as
women and youth groups, community associations and local NGOs.
The development objective was clear and in full accordance with the development strategy of the World
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Senegal. The project was considered one of the key projects
to achieve the CAS objectives of sustainable economic growth with equity and targeted poverty reduction.
IDA's main nutrition objective was to assist the Government of Senegal in adopting strategies and
cost-effective programs to deal with malnutrition problems of the most vulnerable groups. The project was
co-financed by the World Food Program (WFP) and the German Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW).
Response to Govenmment priorities
The project responded to the development priorities set by the Government of Senegal by supporting the
objectives of the five-year National Nutrition Program. The recommendation by the Ministry of Health to
strengthen the role of mothers' groups at community level by encouraging them to carry out nutrition
activities was included in the project design. A high unemployment rate among urban young professionals
was one of the main concerns of the Government of Senegal at the time of preparation. The project
responded to this priority by stimulating unemployed youth to bid for contracts to carry out nutrition
activities. In addition, by piloting this new 'contracting out' strategy, an innovative approach to
implementing nutrition activities was developed and tested in Senegal witlh the aim of expanding its use.
TIhe Community Nutrition Project targeted poor urban areas where malnutrition rates had been
deteriorating since 1994. It was feared that they would deteriorate even further following the currency
(CFA franc). As a result of this devaluation consumers were hard hit by price increases, in particular the
price of rice, which is the main staple food. Poor urban households, which already spent 70% of their
income on food before devaluation, reduced the number of daily meals (World Bank Poverty Assessment
Senegal, 1995). Malnutrition rates (underweight) in the urban areas increased from 14.1 to 16.5 between
1992 and 1996 (DHS 1992, MICS, 1996).
Thne project became effective in December 1995 and will close on June 30, 2001.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no change in the original objectives.
- 2 -



3.3 Original Components:
Synopsis of the project design:
The project consisted of three major components: (i) a nutrition program; (ii) a water program; and (iii) a
food security program. The Nutrition program was the main component of the project and targeted children
under three, and pregnant and lactating women in poor urban areas. The community nutrition centers,
where the activities were carried out, were managed by a micro-entreprise (MIC) that was contracted by
the executing agency (AGETIP). Each MIC was made up of four young people approved by the local
steering committees representing the community. The MICs were supervised by a Maitre d'Oeuvre
Communautaire (MOC), directly hired by AGETIP. Each MOC would have a maximum of five MICs
under his/her supervision. The community nutrition activities included:(i) growth monitoring of children
under three; (ii) provision of a weekly take-home food supplement during six months for children whose
weight for their age was below 2 S.D. ; (iii) IEC sessions for pregnant and lactating women; and (iv)
provision of a weekly take-home food supplement for three months for pregnant women during the last
trimester of their first pregnancy and for six months for all lactating women witlh a child in the program, or
with an infant of less than 6 months. The beneficiaries would receive nutrition services during six months
(a so-called cohort). Each cohort would cover approximately 300 to 500 beneficiaries. The food
supplement was produced by two production units in Senegal. These unlits bought the raw materials locally,
enriched the supplemental food with micronutrients as prescribed by the formula that was developed during
thie design of the project. Thle food supplement provided an extra 400 calories per day for each beneficiary.
Severely malnourished and sick children were referred to nearby health centers. All MICs and MOCs were
trained and supervised by AGETIP.
The water program installed drinking water stand pipes and increased the water-pipe network in the urban
areas targeted by the nutrition program. The drinking water stand pipes were managed by local women's
groups. Those local women managers invested in the stand pipes and eamed with every liter of water they
sold. The prices were set by the Senegal National Water Company (SONES). Messages about hygiene and
garbage collection were proposed as activities under the sanitation sub-component of the water program.
The food security program would make food security and nutrition information and advice, food
supplements, cash or cash equivalents, available principally tlrough labor-intensive infrastructures and
income-generating activities. The food security program would be further developed during project
implementation.
The IEC, social mobilization and monitoring and evaluation were umbrella components central to all other
components. The IEC program developed and pretested basic messages for their primary target groups,
pregnant and lactating women in the case of the nutrition program, households and communities in the case
of the water program. In addition to individual counseling, mass media channels were used to deliver key
messages regarding nutrition and hygiene. Mass media campaigns were also used to sensitize the
population at large. Local steering committees, composed of local leaders, the MIC and local authorities
were key players in the social mobilization activities. The monitoring and evaluation system was set up to
permit continuous review of the nutrition center performance. A baseline census would provide information
to identify malnourished children and monitor project progress. The evaluation system consisted of impact
studies in intervention and control areas.
-3 -



Achievement of the objectives:
To achieve the objectives, the project proposed three main components:(i) a nutrition program targeting
poor urban areas, consisting of information, education and communication interlocutors and supported by
supplementary feeding and a research fund (US$15.3 million); (ii) a water program, targeting un-serviced
areas in the nutrition program intervention areas (US$1.2 million); and (iii) a pilot rural household food
security program (US$2.8 million).
The interventions that were proposed in the project to achieve the objectives were appropriate in the given
context - an emergency. Child malnutrition is a direct outcome of poor food intake and disease. Underlying
factors to malnutrition include poor feeding practices, lack of access to food and health services, and poor
sanitation. The Community Nutrition Project responded to a crisis in Senegal following the CFA
devaluation. There was an upward trend in all three malnutrition indicators, underweight, stunting, and
wasting, in the urban areas. The project responded by establishing nutrition centers in those urban areas,
selecting malnourished children and providing them with food and an education program for their mothers.
In order to prevent malnutrition rates from further increases, the project also targeted pregnant and
lactating women and monitored the growth of a small percentage of well-nourished children. The water
component of the project was well placed to improve access to potable water.
The third objective, to enhance household food security in the rural areas, was added late in the project
design phase and was less well prepared. The objective was complex and its focus very different from the
otlher objectives. It targeted the rural instead of the urban areas, and was supposed to enhance food security
in critical periods of vulnerability.
3.4 Revised Components:
Althouglh no official revisions were made to the original components, the scope of the project (number of
beneficiaries) was revised during the mid-term review. The evaluation results in this implementation
completion report (ICR) are based on the revised data.
3.5 Quality at Entrv:
The project pre-dates the introduction of the Quality Enhancement Reviews (QER), so no official Quality
at Entry is available. However the quality of the preparation may be rated retroactively as satisfactory.
Complexity and scope:
The Senegal Community Nutrition project was one of the Bank's first self-standing nutrition projects in
Sub-Saharan Afiica. The project proposed an innovative new approach to implementing nutrition services,
namely by contracting nutrition services out to local private micro-enterprises. It was managed by a
non-govemmental agency, AGETIP, instead of more traditionally by a line ministry. Apart from being
innovative, it did not have an overly complex design. The project had three main objectives and consisted of
three components. A pilot phase was carried out in 1995 to test the feasibility of the 'contracting out'
approach. The results of the study were available just before the project became effective and the majority
of its recommendations were used in the project design described in the project manual.
The project coverage was overestimated during project design, but was revised at mid term review. An
explanation for the over-estimation was that the project would respond to an expected crisis following the
- 4 -



CFA devaluation. It was therefore difficult to predict the magnitude of the problem. In addition, siblings of
malnourished children were included in the projections for food supplementation. During implementation,
experience indicated no need for this, plus the number of siblings was overestimated. In order to reach the
targeted population (malnourished children) and keep costs down, the project had very strict beneficiary
criteria; 70% of the participating children in each cohort had to be malnourished.
Political Commitment:
Political commitment to the project was strong and broad-based. A National Commission, the CNLM (
Commission Nationale de Lutte Contre la malnutrition) was created by presidential decree in 1994 just
after the CFA devaluation. The mandate of the Commission was to ensure the availability of a safety net
for the poor and, in particular, control malnutrition. The Commission is placed in the President's Office and
composed of representatives of the Prime Minister's office, the Ministries of Economy, Finance, Health and
Social Action, Women's, Children's and Family Affairs, the executing agency AGETIP, NGOs, and civil
society representatives. A technical sub-commission, composed of members of the Ministry of Health,
Economy, Finance and Plan and Family was actively involved and provided overall policy guidance during
the preparation of the project.
Implementation Capacity Assessment at Entry:
The Government of Senegal delegated the execution of the project to an experienced agency, AGETIP.
AGETIP's experience with earlier Bank projects demonstrated its institutional and absorptive capacity. Its
managerial autonomy and private sector orientation led to very good results regarding disbursement.
Although AGETIP had more experience in infrastructure than in implementing social interventions, it did
construct rural community health centers that were managed by local women's organizations. Since the
agency did not have any expertise in nutrition, it recruited nutrition experts with a background in
implementing social programs at the community level. A Technical Advisory Committee, composed of
leading professionals from Senegalese universities and medical schools, and representatives from
intemational technical agencies, would support AGETIP on technical matters during the implementation.
Application of lessons learned:
Relevant lessons learned from a number of other projects in Senegal, Africa and other regions were used in
the design of the project (see SAR 1995 for details). The pilot project, carried out in 1995, provided
valuable infonnation for the design of the project. Its evaluation report was presented in September 1995,
just before the project became effective. Many of its recommendations and lessons learned were included in
the project's manual of procedures. First of all, supervision of the centers was found to be inadequate
during the pilot phase. As result, the project included more frequent and more professional supervision
(MOC) in the operations manual and improved communication lines between central and local levels.
Second, the demand for IEC was overwhelming and the sessions tended to be overcrowded. The project set
a limit to the number of participants and increased the number of sessions per month. In addition, the
beneficiaries demanded more IEC themes than foreseen, which resulted in an increase in number of themes.
Thirdly, it appeared that beneficiaries preferred certain opening hours above others. As a result, the project
involves the beneficiaries in the micro-planning, including defining the center's opening hours.
- 5 -



Risk Assessment:
The project identified four specific risks during preparation:
(1) Because the enterprise producing the food supplement enjoyed a virtual monopoly, fluctuations in price
and quality were feared. In order to mitigate the risk of sole-source food production, WFP, the partner
financing the food supplement, identified other producers through local competitive bidding. However,
monopoly was not the main problem. Low production capacity of the production units, delays in delivery to
the communities, and variations in the food supplement quality, were more problematic;
(2) Because of the high need for inter-sectoral and stakeholder coordination, loss of efficiency and
effectiveness to reach the objectives was feared. This risk was mitigated by the establishment of the
CNLM, which would ensure coordination among the stakeholders and sectoral ministries;
(3) It was feared that community mobilization, organization, and training shortfalls would delay
implementation. The executing agency, AGETIP, played an important role in mitigating this risk. Efficient
execution of project activities was ensured by the establishment of local steering committees in each
community targeted by the project. Also at the district level, coordination mechanisms were set up;
counterparts of the national commission composed of the district official, the Imam, women leaders, youth
clubs and other associations, and representatives of local NGOs. These conmnittees participated in the
designi of the project and were involved in the training sessions of the MICs and MOCs. This contributed
undoubtedly to the excellent relations among the various groups at the community level. A beneficiary
assessment and key stakeholders workshop was held during preparation which resulted in strong
ownership;
(4) The project's administrative costs could be higher than expected, tlus jeopardizing the program's
sustainability. Despite careful management, operating costs were higher for several reasons. The number of
malnourished childrenl was less than estimated, hence the costs of the nutrition centers per beneficiary were
increased, following an initial decrease in the second year. Part of the investment in training of MOCs was
lost due to high turnover rates (40%). Supervision costs were higher than estimated.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achiei'e,nentofobjective:
4.1.1. Malnutrition among young children
The main objective of the project, to halt a further deterioration of the nutritional status of young children,
pregnant and lactating women in targeted poor urban areas, was achieved. Underweight rates among
children under five in the urban areas at the national level have decreased since 1996, from 16.5% to
13.9% (Table I) (MICS 2000, Government of Senegal/UNICEF). Stunting rates follow the same pattern,
but wasting rates, an indicator of acute malnutrition, decreased in both urban and rural areas in 1996 and
increased significantly after 1996. The trend of acute malnutrition is the opposite of chronic malnutrition
and underweight. Acute malnutrition is an indicator of acute food shortages (periods of drought and
pre-harvest) and acute and repeated infectious disease. The surveys were conducted in different time
periods, which may explain in part the trend in wasting. The 1992 national survey was carried out between
November and March, just after the rainy season and after grain stocks were depleted. The 1996 survey
- 6 -



was carried out between March and May, which is a better period in Senegal in terns of food security. The
MICS 2000 was carried out between May and June, at the beginning of the rainy season in Senegal, which
may have caused an increase in prevalence of diarrhea and infectious disease. It should be kept in mind
that these are assumptions and were not investigated in the surveys.
Table 1: Malnutrition rates in %, 1992 (DHS), 1996 (MICS), 2000 (MICS) among children under 5
Urban         1992       1996      2000       Rural      1992       1996       2000
Under-        14.1       16.5       13.9     Under-      27.2       25.8       19.7
weight                                        weight
Stunting      14.8       16.8       11.8     Stunting    30.6       26.4       18.1
Wasting       6.9        5.9        8.4  -  Wasting       9.4        7.2       11.0
Source: WHO Global Database, MICS
Since the malnutrition rates in the rural areas follow the same trend as malnutrition rates in the urban areas
and the project only intervened in the latter, it is uncertain how much the project contributed to the
reduction in underweight and stunting. Although other major factors are likely to have played an important
role, the monitoring data of the project show results that make it likely that the project had impact. A total
of 20% of all urban children under three were reached and participated in the program. The monitoring
data indicates that approximately 70% of those children were malnourished when they entered the program
and recuperated (weight for age > 2 S.D.) within 6 months.
The baseline data, collected for the pilot study in 1995, found a 30% underweight rate among children
under three in the pilot areas. Unfortunately there are no recent data on the average underweight rate in
those areas after the project was implemented which could have confinned the likelihood of the projectes
impact. Given the importance of the reduction at national level, the factors that contributed to this reduction
are worth closer investigation. This will be particularly beneficial for future interventions in Senegal.
There is some impact data from two small-scale studies by Orstom that assessed the impact of the project
after two years of implementation. The studies were carried out in intervention and control areas at two
points in time, November 1996 and November 1998. The results of the studies show support for the
positive impact of the project, but it is limited to one age group, 24 to 35 month old children. In the
intervention area, the underweight rate among these children reduced from 31.7% to 27.4%, whereas the
control group children in that age range show significantly increased underweight rates, 18.9% to 25.6%,
between the two points in time. The underweight rates for all three other age groups (6 to 11 months, 12 to
17 months, and 18-23 months) decreased by similar percentages in both intervention and control areas
(table 3).
-7 -



Table 3: Underweight prevalence in intervention and control areas at two points in time
Control group                  Intervention up
Underweight in      Point 0          Point I         Point 0          Point I
children:      (Nov. 1996)       (Nov. 98)        (Nov. 96)        (Nov. 98)
6-11 months        21.5%            18.3%            21.1%            16.8%
12-17 months       32.3%            25.9%            33.2%            29.3%
18-23 months       28.5%            28.2%            33.5%            30.3%
24-35 montlhs       18.9%       25.6% (P=0.026)      31.7%            27.4%
all children 6-35   24.1%            24.7%            30.2%            26.0%
months                                       I                                I
Source: Orstom, Evaluation d'mpact Programme Nttrition Comm unauttaire, 1999.
The studies conclude a positive longer lasting impact of the project based on data from former beneficiaries
of the project. Children between 12-17 months and 18-23 months who participated in the program had
lower underweight prevalence rates than those children who never participated (table 4). However, children
between 6-11 months and 24-35 months who participated in the program had higher underweight
prevalence rates than those who never participated. The study would benefit from a more in-depth analysis
and discussion to make the conclusions plausible. For example, it is not clear what the mother's role might
have been. Some women may have been participants while pregnant, but their children never participated.
Table 4: Prevalence of underweight among children between 6 and 35 months that participated in the
nutrition program in the district of St. Louis.
___________    Children that were included in the study and that:
age in months were actually participating    had never participated   had participated in the past
at the time of study                               (und  ned)
prevalence             prevalence               prevalence
W/A                    W/A                      W/A
6-11       n=159       23.3%       n=228       7.5%        n=45        13.3%
12-17      n=133       34.6%       n= 187      20.3%        n=78        15.4%
18-23       n=84       36.9%       n=182       21.4%       n=127       19.7%
24-35       n=79       49.4%       n=378        18.8%      n=325        27.7%
6-35       n=455       33.6%       n=975       16.9%       n=575       23.1%
A total of 37 percent of all pregnant and lactating women in the urban areas benefited from the project's
nutrition activities. The results of a study by Ndiaye in 1999 support the likelihood of a positive impact of
the project's activities. The study shows a reduction in prevalence of low birth weight among women who
participated in the food supplementation program. The same women also benefited from the iron
supplementation and pre-natal visits provided by the govemment health facilities. The study demonstrates
lower prevalence of low birth weight infants among those women who participated in all three mentioned
activities (5.6% versus 12.8%, p=0.03). It is reasonable to attribute part of the positive result to the project
not because it provided food supplementation, but it played an important part in persuading women to go
to the health clinics for pre-natal care and provided IEC on the importance of iron supplementation.
- 8 -



4.1.2. Access to potable water
The project's second objective, the provision of potable water to under-serviced poor neighborhoods in the
urban areas,was fully achieved. The project installed more than double the amount of water stands (250
instead of 120) and expanded the pipeline network with 5 times as many kilometers than originally planned
(200 instead of 40). Access to potable water in the targeted poor urban areas improved from 50% in 1996
to 97% in 1998 Study EXCO. In addition, the installation of the water stands provided employment to
about 500 local women who managed the water stands and sold the water to the local population at rates
established by the National Water Company of Senegal (SONES). SONES has institutionalized this
approach in their Water Sector Program.
The sanitation activities under this component (garbage collection and messages on hygiene) were not
implemented due to financial constraints. Recent data on the prevalence of diarrheal disease show an
increase from 21% to 26% between 1992 and 1996 and a stabilization at 26% between 1996 and 2000.
The highest prevalence is found in the rural areas (29%). The data underlines the importance of including
sanitation education and sanitary facilities in future operations.
4.1.3. Improved household security
The third objective of the project, the improvement of household food security in poor urban and rural
areas during times of vulnerability, was not achieved because it was not carried out. The component was to
be designed during implementation but due to financial constraints it never materialized. However, a
feasibility study was conducted in the Kaffrine region and a project proposal was written. Both can be used
for future interventions.
4.1.4. Implementation
The project's implementation objectives were first of all, to demonstrate the feasibility of targeted,
cost-effective community nutrition interventions. Second to demonstrate effectiveness of management of the
execution by a private agency (AGETIP). Thirdly, to demonstrate that the contracting out approach is
effective. The effectiveness of the management and the contracting out approach was demonstrated, the
cost-effectiveness and sustainability remain to be analyzed.
The project demonstrated that implementing community nutrition interventions effectively is feasible. The
project was executed in an effective and timely manner, largely because of the efficient management of
AGETIP. AGETIP also played a very effective intermediary role between the project and the communities.
All community nutrition centers were successfully managed by MICs. A total of 292 community nutrition
centers were established in the targeted poor urban areas. The activities were carried out as planned and the
project reached almost half a million beneficiaries in four years. Beneficiary assessments show very high
satisfaction rates (over 90%, Sy, 1998) with the services provided. The 'contracting out' approach had an
important benefit, namely a reduced unemployment rate among urban youth. A total of 1848 jobs were
created (1183 MIC employees, 62 MOC and 584 security guards for the centers).
Despite the success mentioned above, the project could have benefited from more substantial use of the
local women's groups and local NGOs, following the recommendation from the Ministry of Family at the
time of preparation. The women's groups were involved and did manage the water stands very effectively
(an additional 500 jobs were created) but were less directly involved in the nutrition activities. Experienced
women could have played a more important role in the interpersonal counseling activities with new mothers
-9-



and mothers with malnourished children. The involvement of NGOs and even contracting out to NGOs
could have provided comparative material for the 'contracting out' approach which was only used to tap
into the private sector. The food security component feasibility study that was conducted (see above)
recommended contracting NGOs for the implementation of nutrition activities in the rural areas.
The cost-effectiveness of the contracting out approach remains to be analyzed. A cost-effectiveness study
was carnied out in February 1998, but failed to conduct a comparative analysis. The costs per beneficiary
were calculated, but it is unclear from the data what was exactly included in the cost-analysis. A quick
review of the actual coverage and costs provides some insights and the basis for a cost-benefit analysis.
The total cost of the project was US$28 million of which US$18.2 million for the nutrition activities
(including implementation contracts, management, IEC, training and contingencies) and US$3.9 million for
the food (including production, distribution and supervision). A total of 457,000 children and women
benefited from the nutrition activities, including 220,500 who received food supplementation. Total cost per
beneficiary for six montlhs of nutrition services is US$ 40.00. Total cost per beneficiary of the nutrition
services plus food supplementation is US$67.70. An estimated total of 89,600 children (70% of the
128,000 whio received food and were thius under 2 S.D. at entry) were recuperated. Total cost per
recuperated child was US$ 96.70.
4.2 Outpuls by components:
4.2.1. Nutrition program:
(rated satisfactory)
The nutrition program was implemented tdrough the establishment of community nutrition centers. A total
of 292 centers, in 37 communes in 10 of Senegal's urban districts were set up. The 292 centers represented
83% of what was planned during the MTR, but the majority (98%) of the beneficiaries was reached. Table
2 provides an overview of the originally estimated number of beneficiaries, the revised number of
beneficiaries at MTR and the actual number of beneficiaries reached during project implementation.
I 0 -



Table 2: Targeting data
Target group    original estimates   MTR revised'    Actual       % actual of MTR
revised
Children under 3 in  230,000           140,700          128,000           91%
growtlh monitoring
program and food
supplementation
Children under 3      69,500           56,280           69,800            124%
monitored without
food
supplementation
Pregnant and          120,000          93,800           92,500            99%
lactating women
receiving lEC and
food
supplementation
Pregnant and          59,500           178,200          166,700           94%
lactating women
receiving only IEC
Grand total          479,000          468,980          457,000            98%
Source: SAR, MTR, A GETIP monitoring data andfinal report.
A total of 457,000 beneficiaries, children and pregnant and lactating women, have benefited from the
services provided by the project's nutrition program. The number of beneficiaries represents 20 percent of
all children under 3, and 37 percent of the pregnant and lactating women among the urban population.
Since the project targeted malnourished children and malnutrition is more predominant among the poor in
Senegal, it is likely that the project reached its targeted population, the poor in urban communities.
Thie project was successful in recuperating the malnourished children who participated in the program,
Monitoring data indicates that almost 70% of tle malnourished children at the time of entry in the program,
recuperated, or gained sufficient weight to become above 2 S.D. W/A, during tde 6 months in the program.
In addition to food supplementation for the malnourished children, their mothers received nutrition
education through weekly IEC sessions. It is worthwhile investigating further the relative importance of the
food and nutrition education on recuperation. For example, supervision missions reported that malnutrition
rates among participating children kept decreasing in periods where the food was not available.
The mothers of children that did not recuperate after 6 months in the program (31%) would be counseled
and visited at home to assess the home situation. There is very limited infonnation available on the results
of those visits and the counseling. Anecdotal information indicates that most of the children who did not
recuperate within the six months in the program, were referred to the health facilities, but it is not known
whether they came back to the center.
The children that entered the program severely malnourished (2.8%) were immediately referred to the
health facilities. However, the management of severely malnourished children in the health facilities was
problematic. Lack of expertise, adequate materials, and special nutritional supplements were among the
problems mentioned in the evaluation. More attention should have been given to gathering information on
- 11 - 



the nutritional situation of the children after they had left the program, whetler children reentered the
program after a relapse, and whether siblings of participating children also entered the program. This
infonnation would have provided a better insight into the impact of the counseling of mothers and
caretakers regarding behavior change.
Not only malnourished children benefited from the project, a smaller proportion of well-nourished children
also participated. It was assumed that these children were at nutritional risk and they were monitored for
adequate growth to prevent them from becoming malnourished. This report would have benefited from
information on the percentage of well-nourished children at the start of the program that became
malnourished during the program and the determinants.
4.2.2. IECprogramn:
(rated satisfactory)
Achieving optimal nutrition practices is the ultimate goal of any nutrition program. Helping individuals to
change their behavior is often the means to achieve optimal nutrition practices, such as exclusive
breast-feeding for the first 6 months after birth and appropriate complementary feeding practices. These
were also among the goals of this Community Nutrition Project. In order to achieve optimal practices,
children's growth was monitored and mothers and pregnant women were invited to weekly lEC sessions in
the nutrition center during the six months they and/or their children participated in the program. The project
was very successful in attracting beneficiaries to the centers to receive growth monitoring and IEC services.
Participation rates of 92 % for growth monitoring and 78 % for lEC sessions were reached. However, not
only providing the information is important, applying the knowledge is key to achieving improved child
growth. The project carried out a KAP study amoing women, one to two years after their participation in
the program. The study found positive changes in nutrition practices. Women increased the use of
diversified foods in their children's diet from 57 to 77% and increased the use of colostrum direcdy after
birth from 73 to 81% (Sy, 1998). lncreased access to pre-natal services, use of iron supplementation by
pregnant women, and higher vaccination coverage for children are other indirect positive results of the lEC
program. Owing to lack of time, no quality assessment of the lEC materials and methods, in particular the
inter-personal counseling, was conducted for this report. It is however strongly recommended to do such an
assessment during the preparation of future interventions. The majority of community nutrition programs in
Senegal and around the world promote growth monitoring and counseling during a more extensive period of
time, 2-3 years, than this project did (6 months). If the experience of this project demonstrates, as it
appears, that within six months behavior can be changed, this merits much more in-depth analysis to draw
lessons leamned that can be applied to other projects in Senegal and elsewhere.
Social Mobilization:
The successfully implemented social mobilization activities were part of the overall IEC strategy. The
objective to empower the communities to take action for their owIn development, using the center's activities
as a starting point, was fully achieved. Informative meetings were held every month between the MICs (the
managers of the nutrition center), the MOC (the supervisor of the center), and the local steering committee
(tlhe community). The MICs organized social mobilizations approximately every two months to inform the
community about the progress made in dealing with malnutrition. The project was very effective in
mobilizing the communities (through local steering committees - LSC) and more importantly, empowering
them to analyze the situation and take appropriate action. For example, the lack of day-care centers for
young children was perceived as a major problem for women. At the end of the project, 137 out of 292
nutrition centers had established day-care centers, at the request of and financed by the community. Other
- 12 -



activities started by the communities based on identified needs are literacy programs for women,
micro-credit for women and systematic dewonning for children.
The Ministry of Family requested the involvement of womeni's groups to manage the nutrition centers
during the preparation of the project. Although this request was accepted in the design, it was not taken into
account during implementation. The involvement of NGOs, also promoted during preparation, did not
materialize either. Anecdotal information revealed that the need to include NGOs was not felt, since the
communities were 'powerful' enough to deal with the problems. Women's groups were very much involved
in the drinking water stand pipe program. Nevertheless, the project would have benefited from testing the
use of NGOs and women's groups to compare approaches and costs of using different service delivery
meclhanisms (MICs as private sector, NGOs and women's groups as civil society) to manage the nutrition
centers. All three mechanisms are likely to have different costs and relations with the communities, and
might differ in terms of sustainability.
4.2.3. Water and sanitation prograin:
(rated highly satisfactory)
The project installed twice as many drinking water stand pipes than originally planned: 250 instead of 120.
Also five times as many kilometers of water pipelines were added to the water net work. The objective to
improve access to water in the poor urban targeted areas, was largely achieved. A study by EXCO/Africa
in 1998 showed an impressive increase, from 50% to 97%, of households with access to potable water in
the areas where the project intervened. Recent national data, however, confinn the need to extend to other
urban areas in Senegal. While access to potable water has increased rapidly in the rural areas, from 49% in
1996 to 68% in 2000, in the urban areas there was a clear reduction, from 91% in 1996 to 84% in 2000
(MICS 2000, Government of Senegal/UNICEF). The project's success is largely attributed to the efficient
management of AGETIP, and the local management of the drinking water stand pipes by women's groups.
A beneficiary assessment indicated high rates of satisfaction with the water program services. The results
showed that the majority of the users preferred to maintain the participatory management approach. Local
women's groups managed the stand pipes and charged a users fee determined by SONES. The study
demonstrated that only 10 % of the users thought water prices were too high (15 CFAF/40 liters,
US$0.02).
The implementation of thie sanitation activities, garbage collection and IEC for hygienic practices, was
delayed. At MTR a recommendation to start the activities was made. The project conducted a feasibility
study but no concrete activities were undertaken. Contrary to the water component, the sanitation
component was not clearly defined during the preparation of the project, which may explain its delay and
lack of concrete action.
4.2.4. Food secarity program:
(rated unsatisfactory)
The food security program would also have benefited from a more specific design during preparation. The
detailed design of the activities began only after the MTR. The feasibility study and the proposal for pilot
interventions were finalized during the last year of the project. However, by that time, the funds to execute
the sub-component were reallocated to the nutrition program. The study and proposal could be used for
future activities.
- 13 -



4.2.5. Monitoring and Evaluation:
(rated satisfactory)
The monitoring and evaluation system was established from the early beginning of the project. information
on a child's nutritional status was collected at the nutrition center through monthly weighing. The progress
in nutritional status of the children participating in the program was discussed every two months in the
community. The information was gathered by the MOCs and reported to AGETIP. Based on the monthly
supervision reports action was taken whenever perfonnance was regarded as inadequate (insufficient
number of malnourished children participating, less than 80% recuperation rates, etc.). This local level
monitoring system and feedback to the community functioned very well, according to supervision reports
and the ICR mission report. The simplicity of the system and the importance given to its functioning by
AGETIP and World Bank management positively contributed to its effectiveness. However, more attention
should have been given also to the analysis of the data at the central level, especially to evaluate progress
and analyze differences at the central level. The project challenged widely accepted growth monitoring
approaches, by reducing the duration of the monitoring and the counseling to only 6 months. The project,
witlh a monitoring that provided easy access to collect a wealth of infonnation, should have benefited from
data on the socioeconomic background of the beneficiaries, sibling participation, relapses of recuperated
children, specifics on counseling of mothers, and comparisons between groups, centers and regions.
Despite this lack of analysis, the project should be highly commended for carrying out an impact study,
wlhich -provided interesting results (discussed in 4.2.1). A total of 36 studies, including the impact studies,
were carried out during implementation. The quality varies widely; some provided better analysis than
others.
4.3 Net Present Value/Econromic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of retuni:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
(rated modest)
The project was successful in building the capacity of:(i) local private enterprises, MICs, to manage and
execute nutrition services, and (ii) the executing agency AGETIP to tap into the private sector to deliver
nutrition services to the communities. However, more attention should have been given to the capacity
building of the public sector institutions responsible for nutrition in Senegal, not for the implementation of
the activities, but to establish the national nutrition policy and provide technical guidance to the executing
agencies. Institutional development impact is rated as modest.
The CNLM was established by Presidential decree (94-566) in 1994 just after the CFA devaluation. The
mandate of the CNLM was to coordinate and guide the activities that would prevent malnutrition from
increasing in Senegal. Before the establishment of the CNLM, there were no multisectoral coordination
mechanisms in Senegal. Thne national nutrition service, SNAN, under the Ministry of Health, is responsible
for the formulation and application of the national nutrition policy, but does not have a multisectoral
mandate. The CNLM was set up following recommendations that because of its multisectorality, no one
line ministry or institution could be solely responsible for nutrition. The CNLM was seated in the
President's office and was composed of representatives of all stakeholders in order to allow for a
- 14 -



multisectoral approach. Representatives of the MOH, SNAN and the Food Security Commission were
members of the CNLM.
The CNLM was actively involved in the design and preparation of the Community Nutrition Project, but
participated only to a certain degree in monitoring and evaluation of project implementation. The
line-ministries felt they did not provide adequate input during the execution of the project, even though their
representatives attended regular meetings. The reasons stated by these ministries were that the lack of
human and financial resources impeded their capacity to carry out their responsibilities effectively in the
supervision of activities and training. In addition, the meetings were held in a formal manner which did not
stimulate discussion. The project could have benefited from better coordination among stakeholders in
nutrition, one of the roles of the CNLM. For example, the SNAN implemented a national nutrition program
alongside this project. Both interventions used different approaches and conveyed different messages, with
the risk of mitigating their individual impact.
The executing agency, AGETIP, on the other hand, built up its capacity to implement community nutrition
activities very effectively. A national director and nutrition experts were hired before the project became
effective to ensure an efficient start. AGETIP successfully built up a network of community-based
micro-enterprises (MICs) to execute the nutrition activities, effectively tapping into the private sector. All
MICs acquired legal status, were trained in tnanagement of nutrition services, and could potentially provide
a broader range of social services after the project. AGETIP recognized gaps in expertise and hired mainly
local consultants to provide the technical assistance needed. For example, the impact studies were done by
the local ORSTOM institute, KAP studies by local consultants, and technical advice was provided by a
variety of local experts. The agency also benefited from the technical assistance provided by the
co-financing partners KfW and WFP.
The assistance provided by AGETIP and the MICs to the targeted communities effectively built up their
capacity to analyze their situation based on progress in the nutritional status of the children. The
communities, represented by local steering committees were actively involved in the decision making and
management of their nutrition center. The communities took ownership of these ceniters and 137 of the 292
centers started new activities, such as day-care centers, literacy programs and micro-credit for women.
The drinking water standpipes program was highly successful. Not only were twice as many stands and
kilometers water pipes installed as planned, also the management approach was adopted by the National
Water Company (SONES). The water stands were managed by local women's groups. A beneficiary
assessment demonstrated very high user satisfaction levels. SONES will extend the drinking water stand
program coverage, replicating the approach AGETIP piloted.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementilng agency:
Positive factors:
The excellent collaboration between the financing partners (WB, WFP, KfW), government and executing
agency, contributed positively to the implementation of the project. Supervision missions were often carried
out jointly. Both the Bank and WFP had task management in the field. This may have had a positive effect
on the quantity and quality of the project supervision.
- 15 -



Although there was a change in government during the last year of the project this did not affect the
implementation of project activities. This may in part be explained by the fact that the project was well
received by the population and executed by a non-governmental agency, AGETIP.
During the course of the project, the strong US dollar had a negative impact on the amount of dollars per
Standard Drawing Rights (SDR). However, closer analysis indicates that this effect was probably balanced
by the advantage of the strong dollar against the CFA. Since the project financed mostly local costs this
may even have been an advantage in terms of amounts of CFA. Disbursement was slow during the first two
years of the project, but picked up rapidly after the first quarter of the third year. Due to this slow start, an
extension of one year (to June 2001) was requested and granted in 1999. The project is scheduled to
disburse all funds by December 2000, 6 months earlier than the extended closing date (June 30, 2001).
Negative factors:
The fluctuations in the price and availability of raw materials for the production of the food supplement
caused problems for the weaning food production units and jeopardized the availability of the food
supplement for the nutrition centers. The distribution of the food supplement was irregular at times, which
had a negative impact on the participation in the growth monitoring program and the lEC sessions.
However, in some centers, the women themselves made creative efforts to overcome those distribution
problems by producing the food supplement at home with local produce.
The migration between the rural and urban areas and within the communities affected the participation in
the centers negatively. At times, it was very difficult to keep the cohorts of children for the duration of the
program.
5.2 Factors generally suihject to government control:
Positive factors:
The establishment of the CNLM  by presidential decree in 1994, which grouped together the different
ministries, NGOs and civil society, ensured broad-based involvement in the project. Since the CNLM was
not an executing body, the implementation of the project was delegated to an experienced executing agency
(AGETIP). These two very important decisions by the Government of Senegal contributed to the positive
results of the project.
The delegation of responsibility for the special account management to AGETIP facilitated efficient
disbursement of funds and financial management. Financial flows were not hindered by bureaucratic red
tape and there is a general sense among beneficiaries and government officials that the money reached the
communities effectively.
During project implementation, the adequacy of provision of counterpart funds did not pose any problems,
but the timeliness did. The transfer of counterpart funds was on average delayed by several months each
year. However, since none of the activities were financed by counterpart funds alone, the delays did not
impede the implementation of the activities.
- 16 -



Negative factors:
The selection of only one main executing agency has not promoted competition and therefore capacity
building in other sectors and agencies. NGOs and public sector was not sufficiently targeted for capacity
building which could have improved sustainability.
The lack of coordination and poor communication between the differenit partners was the underlying cause
of the problems encountered with the implementation of the 'management severely malnourished children'
sub-component. The management of this sub-component was placed under the Ministry of Health. Severely
malnourished children identified in the nutrition centers were immediately referred to the nearest health
facility for treatment. The health facilities, however, were not sufficiently prepared or equipped to manage
the children adequately. During the last year of implementation, the situation improved due to improved
communications, but it is too early to discuss results.
5.3 Factors genera/lv subject to inplementing agency coIItrol:
Positive factors:
AGETIP emphasized the need to improve its institutional capacity to manage nutrition interventions early
in the preparation process. A well staffed nutrition department was established before the project became
effective. Continuous technical assistance was sought, both at the local and intemational level. This focus
on institutional capacity building contributed to the effective management of the project activities.
The active involvement of the communities during preparation, the emphasis on community participation
during implementation and the focus on empowering communities to take their own decisions, are key
factors in the success of the entire project. Box I shows which factors the managers of the nutrition centers
(MICs) view as contributing to the success.
Box I
The MICs of one nutrition center in SRO Diane have mentioned the following factors to
explain the success of their center: (a) they have established a "Caisse de Beneficiaries"
for famnilies in need; (b) the women's groups use the center after hours for their activities
and contribute financially to the center; (c) one of the MIC members is a dynamic
member of the women's association; (d) women who are late or do not show up for the
IEC session are fined 25 CFA (US$0,05); (e) small gifts are presented (occasionally) to
those who are punctual; (f) the nutrition centers are used as the vaccination post once a
month; and (g) the women's groups themselves mobilize the women in the area.
(Supervision report May, 1999).
- 17 -



Timely problem identification at the community level and subsequent action were made possible by the well
established monitoring system at the local level. The system was very effective in tracking outputs and
implementation results which provided the input to identify the problems and intensify supervision to deal
with the problems.
Negative factors:
Although the monitoring system was very effective at the local level,closer attention should have been paid
to analysis and reflection on the results at the central level (section 4.2.5.). The project took on a challenge
with the testing of a new approach and the use of a more intensive but very short period of growth
monitoring and promotion. The project would have benefited from more comparisons with other projects
and more impact studies on children that left the program. The project management relied on the one
impact study (section 4.2.1.) but it provided evidence for only one age group.
The high turnover rate (40%) of the MOC (supervisors) caused continuity problems and represented a loss
of investment in training. Many of the MOCs were medical doctors, dentists, and pharmacists who opted
for a more secure job in the public sector. As a result, there was a shift in profile and the majority of the
MOCs employed were social workers. This may represent an advantage because the focus of the project
evolved to community development for which a social worker's background may be more appropriate.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project cost was estimated at US$28 million at the time of appraisal. The Government of Senegal
was to contiibute US$ 1.6 million to the project. US$18.2 was to be financed under the IDA credit, a grant
of US$3.9 (of which US$ 2.5 million of food purchases) million was provided by WFP and a grant of DM
4.8 million was provided by KfW. At the time of closing (December 31, 2000), the project will have
disbursed all available funds in the credit, i.e. SDR 1 1.7 or 100% of the original estimate.
It was not foreseen at appraisal that the beneficiaries would contribute financially. However, during
implementation, under the social mobilization program, the beneficiaries contributed to the financing of the
nutrition centers. All beneficiaries of the full program (lEC and food supplementation) contributed a fee of
25 CFA (US$ 0.04) per visit to the nutrition center. In addition, 15 % of the revenue from drinking water
stand pipes was contributed to the nutrition center in the community.
The project expenditure by activity is based on estimates of actual spending by AGETIP. The financial
system used by AGETIP did not allow for analysis of spending by activity. The data revealed substantial
variations between estimated expenditures and real expenditures at the time of writing the 1CR (6 months
before closing). On training, 162% of the estimate at appraisal was spent, on social mobilization and lEC,
250%, and on management 159%. Other activities spent far less than was estimated. For the nutrition
program 77% of the estimate was spent and for monitoring and evaluation activities 64%. For the water
program 57% was spent (recent infonnation confirms that the water program will disburse all funds before
December 31, 2000). The financial system did not allow for analysis to explain these differences.
The food supplement, financed by WFP, turned out to be much more expensive than estimated at appraisal,
largely due to the high costs of raw materials (maize and millet). In order to reduce the cost, the formula of
the food supplement was changed during the third year of implementation. Instead of using high-priced
local millet, cheaper imported maize was used as the basis for the fonnula. In addition, WFP decided to
-18 -



buy raw materials directly to cut intermediary costs. Equipment to make the production more efficient was
provided by WFP on a credit basis to the local production units. The cost reduction thus obtained was
substantial, from US$ 700 per metric ton to US$ 492, which is just below the international price of US$
500. In the end, however, the WFP grant was not fully used because of a lower than estimated number of
beneficiaries (60% of total grant was used).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainahility rating:
Sustainability is rated likely. The rating is based on the average of a combined rating for sustainability in
tenns of:(i) achieved impact; (ii) sustained commitment to nutrition; (iii) likelihood of local financing
(GOS, communities, others); and (iv) institutional capacity built (see section 4.5.).
Achieved impact:
The most recent national data on nutrition indicators show a significant reduction in malnutrition in Senegal
since 1996, except for acute malnutrition (table 1, section 4.1.1.). Although stunting and underweight rates
decreased in botlh urban and rural areas, there is some evidence to confitm a positive impact of the
community nutrition program that only intervened in the urban areas. The impact study that was carried
out during the first two years of the project appears to show sustained impact of the project on the
nutritional status of children between 24 and 35 months of age (see section 4.2.1.).
The social impact of the project was substantial. A large percentage of the nutrition centers (47%) evolved
into development centers, providing not only nutrition services, but also child care, literacy programs and
micro-credit for women. Community participation and ownership was well developed; the new initiatives
were almost entirely financed by the community and the beneficiaries themselves. The project provided the
space in the nutrition centers and a security system to safeguard the center.
Sustained commitment to nutrition, water and sanitation:
The government's commitment to nutrition, specifically to community nutrition, was very strong. A
National Commission, the CNLM, was established at the time of preparation and much thought was given
to the proposal of an innovative new approach to deliver nutrition services. All major sectors were
represented in the CNLM, as well as the private sector and NGOs, demonstrating commitment to a
multisectoral approach to nutrition. However, commitment to nutrition does not resolve entirely the
question of responsibility or accountability for nutrition outcomes. The latter should have been specified in
the mandate of the CNLM. Future nutrition interventions would benefit from a review of the mandate of
the CNLM in respect of accountability for nutrition outcomes.
The Government of Senegal was committed to continuing the water supply activities that began under the
project. The National Water Company (SONES), will replicate the approach used for the management of
their new water stands (management by women's groups on a contract basis). SONES will extend the
program to other poor urban areas. This successful experience was widely shared during the African
Summit on Water distribution held in South Africa in 2000.
Likelihood of local financing:
The Govemment of Senegal remains committed to the project, but has requested financial support from the
-19-



World Bank, WFP, and KfW, due to a lack of national financial resources. The govemment requested the
World Bank to finance follow-on interventions to ensure the continuation of community nutrition in poor
peri-urban areas and to extend the activities to poor rural areas.
The urban communities that participated in the project were very committed to the activities and
contributed financially to the nutrition centers. All beneficiaries of the 'full' program (both lEC and food
supplementation) paid a small contribution to the center. To put this in perspective: during the month of
February 2000, the average beneficiaries' contribution totalled CFAF 10,600 (US$16) or approximately 3
percent of the monthly cost of running the center (both fixed and variable costs, including salaries of the
MIC). Another source of income for the center was the contribution of the water stands, 15 % of their
revenue. There are no data available on how much this represents in the total cost of the center. Although
community participation was an important gain for sustainability of the project, future interventions will
still need financial support.
6.2 Transition arrangemenit to regular operations:
The Governiment of Senegal is committed to community nutrition and requested the World Bank to support
a follow-on national program: the Nutrition Enhancement Program. This Program will coordinate all
ongoing community nutrition activities in Senegal. It will evaluate the different current approaches and
hannonize messages aimed at beneficiaries. The Program will benefit enonnously from the lessons learned
in the first community nutrition project evaluated in this report. The main objective of the second Program
is to improve the growth of young children in Senegal. Specific objectives include the improvement of the
nutrition anid health status of young children, pregnant and lactating women, and improved access to water
and sanitation. The follow-on Program will extend its activities to the rural areas while consolidating
activities in the urban areas. It will broaden its scope to include Integrated Management of Childhood
Illness (IMCI) at the community level and expand its support to community development. The Program
retnains under the overall coordination of the CNLM. The CNLM  will utilize the National Nutrition
Service (SNAN) under the Ministry of Health as its policy formulation body and will maintain AGETIP as
one but not the only executing agency. The other major sectors will be given specific responsibilities in
policy fonnulation, supervision and support to training, in their respective areas. The program will support
thie strengthening of the SNAN's institutional capacity to formulate and apply the nutrition policy. The
second Program's board date is tentatively set for October 21, 2001.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was in line with the Government's development strategy and the Bank's CAS (see para 3.1.) It
was technically well designed in the given context - emergency- and drew on lessons from previous
nutrition interventions in Senegal and other countries. Project risks were appropriately identified and
adequately dealt with during thle design. The financial system of the executing agency was adequately
assessed. The adoption of revisions regarding the diversification of nutrition interventions was made a
condition of effectiveness. Also adequate staffing of the implementation unit under the executing agency
was made a condition of effectiveness.
- 20 -



The project benefited from a pilot intervention, that was conducted during preparation. The majority of the
recommendations was included in the project after the results became available (just before effectiveness).
However, the project would have benefited from more attention to the technical advice that was provided by
lead advisors at headquarters during preparation. The lead advisor raised concerns on issues as targeting
criteria, emergency feeding versus more preventive and behavior change approaches, and the cohort
approach. The targeting remained unclear throughout the project and made in particular the WFP planning
difficult. In addition, the project design could have envisioned a transition from emergency feeding to more
preventive belhavior change activities following the advice of the lead-specialist in the Bank.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision was done througlh regular supervision missions (a minimum of twice a year) and continuous
assistance from Bank staff in the field. The project was never at risk. Project perfonnance remained
satisfactory during the entire period of implementation and at times was even rated highly satisfactory.
The project proposed an innovative approach to nutrition service delivery at the community level:
contracting out the management of the nutrition services to small private enterprises (MICs). The results of
the project demonstrate that the approach was successful. The project established 292 nutrition centers and
reached more than 20% of young children and pregnant and lactating women of the total urban population
in less than five years. It was very successful in building community capacity and responding to new
initiatives from the communities.
However, although the approach was carried out successfully, the challenge to evaluate this new approach
by comparing it to other service delivery mechanisms, such as delivery through women's group volunteers,
NGOs, public sector officials, was not taken up. Future challenges remain:(i) comparison of the approach
to other service delivery mechanisms; (ii) cost-effectiveness of the approach as opposed to other
approaches; (iii) comparison of the effectiveness of the profile of thie actual implementers of the nutrition
services (youth as opposed to for example, 'model mothers', traditional birth attendants and others).
Sustainability was brought up as an issue on several occasions, includinig at mid term review, but no
concrete actions were taken. The project and future operations would have benefited from more attention to
the sustainability issue earlier on the project.
7.3 Overall Bank peiformance:
Overall Bank performnance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Govemment of Senegal was committed to the project. The Government, through the CNLM, was
actively involved in the preparation of the project. All major concerns, poverty reduction, urban
employment, and control of malnutrition, were taken into account in the project design.
-21 -



7.5 Government implementatioin performance:
The CNLM's decision, with the approval of the Government, to delegate the management of project
activities to AGETIP contributed to the efficient implementation of activities, but did not foster competition
or build capacity in other sectors. The CNLM maintained its involvement in the project through regular
meetings and briefings on progress made. Although these regular meetings were well attended, the guidance
on policy and techlnical issues was limited (see section 4.5.).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Management:
The performance of the implementing agency AGETIP was very satisfactory. AGETIP successfully
managed the execution of the nutrition activities through the contracting out approach. In particular, the
social mobilization program was very successful in achieving strong ownership of the program in the
targeted communities. The nutrition centers were widely known and attained high satisfaction rates and
participation levels.
Procurement:
No significant procurement problems were encountered.
Flow of funds:
Disbursement was slow during the first two years of implementationi. This was due to a variety of
factors:(i) the preparation of the centers, including selection and recruitment of MICs and MOCs was
slower than estimated at appraisal; (ii) interruption in food supplement distribution to the nutrition centers
caused ilTegularities; and (iii) inappropriate disbursement categories. Disbursement increased significantly
in the first quarter of the third year. WFP put in place several measures that improved the regularity of the
food supplement distribution to the centers: the food supplement fonnula was changed; the production units
were provided with more efficient equipment and technical assistance; and the disbursement categories
were amended. Owing to the slow start, the project was extended for one year. However, all fumds will be
fully disbursed by December 2000, six months earlier than the extended closing date.
Financial management and auditing:
Financial management was ensured by AGETIP, through the use of its own financial management system.
Despite the revisions that were made to tlis system to adapt it to take diversified operations into account
before effectiveness, the system did not record spending by activity. The project submitted the annual
audits on a timely basis, except for the December 1998 report, which was submitted with an important
delay, June 2000.
Lenal covenants:
All legal covenants were complied with.
- 22 -



7.7 Overall BorrmwerperJormance:
Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The project is unusually significant since, world-wide, there are few examples of successful nutrition
projects on this large operational scale. This is particularly true and therefore significant for Sub-Saharan
Africa, the one region of the world where things are getting worse nutritionally rather than better. The
Senegal project demonstrated, by and large, that a community-based nutrition project can produce
significant results. Although the data and analysis does not give as precise conclusions as would be
desirable, taken together the available information suggests a positive, impressive experience.
Thne project has showni that an emergency situation, if effectively dealt with, can become the starting point
of a larger-scale national operation. Key was the involvement of an experienced private sector management
institution, to manage the implementation of the project and strong political commitment.
Although the lessons learned indicate that the cost-effectiveness of the interventions and the capacity
development could have benefited from involvement of more than one implementing agency to stimulate a
more competitive approach. One of the main success factors of the project was the strong community
participation and empowennent. Almost half of the targeted communities used the nutrition center as a
starting point for a community development center. The project's success is reflected in the govemment's
initiative to undertake, with World Bank assistance, a bigger, more ambitious nutrition project, building on
the initial experience and repeating certain portions of that experience. The lessons learned mentioned here
below strongly influence the design of the next program.
The project demonstrated that:
On design and preparation:
3   it is important to clearly define the roles and responsibilities of the coordinating body, the policy making
entity, and the executing agency at the beginning of the project and to provide sufficient means for each to
perfonn its role adequately. The CNLM  perfonned its role during preparation, but less so during
implementation. The policy-making entity (the SNAN) did not perform its role adequately due to lack of
humani and financial resources. AGETIP perfonned its role as executing agency adequately.
*   it is important to design all components during the preparation stage of the project, but leave sufficient
flexibility to adapt during implementation. Very ambitious performance criteria were set at the start of the
project, which led to too much focus on treating symptoms and less on prevention. The project revised its
targets only during the MTR when it became clear that the numbers were largely overestimated.
On Implementation:
*   the implementation of nutrition activities at the community level can be effectively managed by an
executing agency that is not attached to a line ministry.
O   even though an experienced executing agency is delegated the implementation of the project, supervision
and policy guidance remain responsibilities of the National Commission in order to ensure quality,
sustainability and a proper system of 'checks and balances'.
- 23 -



*   contracting out tlle execution of nutrition services at the community level to MICs is feasible and effective.
However, more infonnation is needed on the cost-effectiveness and the longer-term impact of the approach
and the contracting to different providers should be evaluated.
*   the management of drinking water stand pipes by local women's groups is very successful and is
sustainable.
*   the contracting out approach had an additional benefit: creating employment. A total of 1848 jobs were
created for youths (MIC and guardians), women (water stands), and young professionals (MOC).
*   timely problem identification and action taking is possible with an effective monitoring system.
*   the management of severely malnourished children depends on coordinated efforts between communities
and health facilities and the readiness of health facilities to take on these children. This component was
unsuccessful until the coordination and communication between the different stakeholders improved.
*  production of the food  locally has advantages, such as promotion of national production units,
employment, and promotion of raw materials production. However, this is a process that requires sufficient
start-up time, substantial technical assistance and close monitoring.
On Institutional capacity building:
*   it is important to allow for competition among executing agencies and organizations to promote capacity
building in different sectors and among a higher number of agencies and to stimulate cost-effectiveness.
*   it is important to test different approaches in order to compare costs and effectiveness and determine the
most appropriate mechanisms and channels to deliver the services.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The executive summary of the Borrower/implementing agency's evaluation report (in French) is included in
Annex 8. The comments received from the Borrower/implementinig agency on the final draft ICR are
included below.
COMMENTS ON ICR/CNP (June 21, 2001) from implementin2 agency
Development:
Increase revenue in the target period districts witlh income generated by MiCs 'contract, rent paid for
nutlition centers, and water sold at water stand pipes by women groups. The project contribute in reducing
poverty by providing more revenues facilitating more access to potable water.
Institutional Development Impact:
The Project enhances community institutional capacities with the creation of Local Steering Committees
(LSC). These LSC made up of community leaders, women and youth group, representation of CBO,
participate to project's implementation and supervision. Trained by the project in nutrition, management
and problems solving, they develop other activities to support the nutrition project, creating good
govemance at community level. These outstanding LSC in the poor communities are a boom to the
implementing of other development projects targeting poverty reduction. Rating slhould be Satisfactory .
Article 1: Decree 94.566/June 1994
CNLM  = to identify and implement efficient and cost-effective strategies to alleviate malnutrition in
Senegal.
- 24 -



Application of Lessons Learned
"First of all, supervision of the centers was found to be inadequate during pilot phase". It's a rnistake,
during pilot phase supervision was done by three NGOs (ENDA, ADMUR and ADKCIF) and outcome
was not efficient. At evaluation it was proposed to have professionals in supervision, reason why MOC
become individuals to contract out with AGETIP.
Risk Assessment
Point (2) read = which ensured coordination among sectorial ministries and the stakeholders.
Point (4): These are assumptions and were not investigated by a correct cost-effectiveness study. There is
no cost table showing comparison on this matter.
Implementation
Para 1- page 9: last sentence = read "tie effectivetness of the management anid the contracting out were
effective
Para 3-page 9 = It was not mention in the SAR a recommendation of Ministry of Health dealing with
women groups. Ministry of Family made this recommendationi as member of the CNLM and you can notice
that gender issue was taken into consideration with the enrollment of more girls in the MICs member.
Women groups were involved in the micro-planification of activities dealing with lEC sessions and social
mobilization. Today local initiatives are undertaken to enhance nutrition centers resources. These activities
are EDC, literacy and income generation activities. NGOs (ENDA, ADMUR and ADKCIF) were the first
MOCs in the project, due to problem of performance, their contracts were cancelled.( please refer to the
pilot phase experience)
Outputs by Components
4.2.1 - Para. 4 = It's mentioned "Anecdotal information", please say referral items, because the MIC refer
the malnourished children to the health post with a referral slheet which is not sent back to the nutrition
center. You should higlhlight the main constraint related to none availability of CRENs at the health post to
take in charge the severe malnourished children.
Social Mobilization (S.M)
Para 2: It was never said in any document of preparation that the Ministry of Health request the
involvement of women groups to manage nutrition centers. The approach to be tested was the contracting
out with MIC. The conclusions of the ZOPP recommend involvement of women groups in the Social
Mobilization, that was done during project implementation. It was no where specified in project document
that comparison should be made between different strategies to execute the S.M. Anecdotal information are
not reliable source to appraise this project.
4.2.4 - Food Security Program = Should be rated not applicable because of non execution the component.
4.5. - Institutional Development
Rated modest should be satisfactory regarding SAR'S objectives. The SAR never mention capacity
building for public sector in nutrition sector. The target groups were = implementing entities (AGETIP,
MIC & MOC) and stakeholders (CLP and beneficiaries). Despite of that the project trained public sector
agents (health district agents, ministry of youth agents, Community Development agent and the press
agents in nutritional aspects).
Para 2 = The CNLM was created in June 2nd 1994 Decree 94-566 and the Food Security Commission
Jun1e 25tb, 1998 Decree 98-554, please correct accordingly.
Para 3 = Meetings held by the CNLM were not formal. Stop the comparison CNP/SNAN who was
ensuring pennanenl secretary never rose this issue at the CNLM. The messages carried out by the CNP,
- 25 -



were validated by SNAN and SNEPS, both entities of MOH.
Divers
Page 16 point 5.2 Negative factors
Selection of one executing agency was government 's option, AGETIP was selected to run the following
experience by contracting out the nutrition services delivery. Capacity building was targeted to community
actors (MICs, MOCs, Women's groups LSC, agents of health district and journalists).
Page 20. Point 7.2 Supervision Please read 292 instead of 300
Page 23 point 8 Lessons learned on Institutional Capacity Building:
Please mention: creation of National Commission (CNLM) an entity grouping several ministries, NGOs,
Mayors to coordinate Nutrition policies. Please consider the two points related to competition and
cost-effectiveness as recommendations for the next program.
Point 9 Co-finaniciers: Please include KFW's evaluation for the water component in this point.
(h) Cofinaniciers:
The project was co-financed by WFP and KfW. Both co-financiers were asked to provide comments on the
final draft ICR. Both WFP and KfW infonned the Bank they agreed with the evaluation and the ratings. In
addition, WFP conducted its own evaluation of the project in May/June 2000, as part of the evaluation
mission for their new country program. A copy of the evaluation report is available from WFP. KfW
conducted its regular annual progress reviews of the water and sanitation program and will carry out a final
evaluation in November 2001.
(c) Other parttners (NIGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
This ICR was written approximately 6 montlhs before the project was closed in order to provide lessons
learned for the future operation which is being prepared at the same time.
A first draft of this ICR ws reviewed by Judith McGuire (lead advisor at the time of preparation of the
project), Milla Mclachlain (nutrition advisor and member of mid term review team), Richard Seifman
(nutrition specialist on the preparation team), Tonia Marek (co-Task-manager during implementation), and
Anwar Bach-Baouab, Task-Team Leader at the time of writing of this ICR and cluster leader for Health,
Nutrition and Population AFTH2.
-26-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome t Impact Indicators:
:-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   . ind  ....o  . ri --  -:  . p-  .. .. ..
.. .......    4~ridtW(atti .'    ....cte                                                                  .......R. AeUlfJa~  *tn
Halt deterioration in urban malnutrition  16.5% (WIA)                        13.9% (W/A)
among children < 3 in targeted areas.
Improved access to potable water in targeted 50%                            97%
areas.
Improved food security in poor urban and    -
rural areas.
I Baseline data, not PSR
Output Indicators:
-andiatorlMatrix                    Pr.jec-ed in aPSR              :   - -     j
1. Number of operating community nutribon  397|                             292
centers
2. Number of new MOC contracts signed    114                                62
3. Number of children monitored for growth  197,000                          197,800
4. Number of women receiving IEC      272,000                                259,200
5. Number of children receiving food  140,700                                128,000
supplementation
6. Number of women receiving food     93,800                                 92,500
supplementation
7. Proportion of children weighed on a  90%                                  92%
monthly basis
8. Proportion of malnourished children  80%                                 69%
recuperated after 6 months
9. Number of water stands installed   120                                    250
10. Kilometers of water pipes installed  40                                 200
11. Average participation in IEC sessions    80                             78
12. Number of MIC trained             1588                                  1381
13. Number of MOC trained             84                                    130
Proportion of timely delivered supervision    80                            50
reports
End of project
No data in PSR available, projections made in SAR and later at MTR used.
- 27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   ). X. ..  . .  0....... .   ...   ..   ... . .. . .. . ......  -   -   ......................   ...............
-:t--0400 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~~A t' I ;00-  t                             Ofjl;q;i                 ;1
.. ...Estim'ate'.      Es -timt          pri
Nutritioo program                                         15.30            11.82              77
Water program                                              2.80             1.58              56
Rural household Food security program                      1.20             0.00
Social Mobilization and IEC                                1.60            4.01              250
Training                                                   1.50             2.43             162
Monitoring and Evaluation                                  1.50             0.96              64
AGETIP management                                          1.00             1.59             159
Pilot operations and project preparation                   0.50             0.50             100
Total Baseline Cost                                       25.40            22.89
Physical Contingencies                                    2.60             2.60
Price Contingencies                                     28.00            25.49            91.03
Total Project Costs                56.00            50.98
Total Financing Required                 56.00            50.98    __
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.Expenditure Category        I              NCB .         Oth.   - .                 Tt  Ca't
1. Works                        0.00           0.00           0.00           2.80          2.80
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                        1.20           0.40           0.10           0.00          1.70
(1.20)                       (0. 10)       (0.00)         (1.70)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00           13.90          1.80          15.70
Service contracts (7.8)        (0.00)          (0.00)        (13.90)        (0.00)        (13.90)
Consultant services (6.1)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           2.10           0.00          2.10
Operating cost                 (0.00)         (0.00)         (2.10)         (0.00)        (2.10)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00           5.20          5.20
Food                          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.50           0.00           0.00          0.50
PPF advance, project         (0.00)          (0.50)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.50)
preparation
Total                         1.20          0.90           16.10          9.80          28.00
(1.20)         (0.90)        (16.10)        (0.00)        (18.20)
-28 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
'. . .: . .- .- . . .':: ': .: . .: :: . . . . .:  .. . . . . . . .                   :'p:''1''                  .  '' ''''.  .    ... . .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...       ..........   , ........... ... -..............-.1..............   ...     . .   . . ..  . ...     ...   .....   ..   .......
......   .....e .  .            .                                          o .  ..            ...  ...... ..
1. Works                                 0.00                0.00              0.00               0.00              0.00
(0.00)             (1.58)            (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.58)
2. Goods                                 0.00                0.00              0.00               0.00              0.00
(0.00)             (2.59)            (0.00)             (0.00)             2.59
3. Services                              0.00                0.00              0.00               0.00              0.00
Service contracts (7.8)                  (0.00)            (15.40)            (0.00)             (0.00)           (15.40)
Consultant services (6.1)
4. Miscellaneous                         0.00                0.00              0.00               0.00              0.00
Operating cost                          (0.00)              (1.59)            (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.59)
5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00               0.00               0.00              0.00
Food                                   (0.00)             (1.23)             (0.00)            (0.00)             (1.23)
6. Miscellaneous                         0.00                0.00              0.00               0.00              0.00
PPF advance, project                  (0.00)             (0.50)             (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.50)
preparation
Total                                 0.00               0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00
(0.00)            (22.89)            (0.00)             (0.00)           (22.89)
Table 4 SAR
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
' Incltudes civil works and goods to be procured throughi national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project. and (ii) re-lending project finds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                   ~.. ... .. .. ... ... ... .                              :.  . ....
- .., . o   p o ....n. e. ..t.. ... ...i. ..                   ......t                                                         ........ - :  -  I
! FkG o  ---  'Xvt. -- --F.. .         Govt.......... . . ...C.
Nutritlon  Program               9.20         1.60        5.20          7.10         1.20                    77.2     75.0      0.0
Water Program                                              2.80                                   1.58                         56.4
Training                         1.50                                   2.43                                 162.0
AGETIP  anlangement fec          0.80                     0.20          1.27                      0.31       158.8             155.0
Consultant scrvices              3.60                                  4.01                                  111.4
PPF  preparation                 0.50                                                                         0.0
Unallocated                      2.60                                                                         0.0
Table 3: SAR and project infonnation
-29-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic costs and benefits analysis was carried out at the time of project appraisal or for the
ICR.
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of:ProJect Cycle.                No'.of Persons and Specialty            Perfornce Ratin       .
(e.g. 2 Economists, I .FMS,'etc.)   Implementation .Devel ,op'ment.
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objct'ie
Identification/Preparation
03/16/1994
AppraisaUNegotiation
01/18/1995
Supervision
12/20/95                     1  Public health                       S             S
4/30/96                      2   Public health                     HS            HS
Sector Manager
6/12/96                      1  Public health/nutrition            HS            HS
12/04/96                    2   Task Manager                       HS            HS
Public health/nutrition
7/31/97                      4   Regional manager                  HS            HS
Task manager
Public health/nutrition
Sanitation
2/27/98                      2   Task manager                      HS            HS
Public health/nutrition
7/24/98                      1  Task manager                        S             S
10/10/98                     3   Task manager                       S             S
Public health/nutrition
4/01/99                      1  Public health/nutrition             S             S
ICR
12/04/00                    3    Task manager                       S             S
nutritionist (2)
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               20.2                      51,700
Appraisal/Negotiation                    97.9                     356,800
Supervision                              74.5                     285,600
ICR                                      15.2                        60.5
Total                                   207.8                     754,600
-31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OI Macro policies                             ( )   C) SU C) M        ) N  * NA
Fl Sector Policies                            0)H (H  SU  ) M  ( N  * NA
El Physical                                   0 H      SU  )M  ( )N  * NA
El Financial                                   ) H   )SU C) M       N  * NA
O Institutional Development                    ) H  () SU * M  (N  (-) NA
O Environmental                              C() H  (0 SU 0 M  () N  0 NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                    C) H  0 SU C) M  (N  0 NA
Li Gender                              (H  (D SU    M  (D N  C) NA
Z Other (Please specify)               ( )H  * SU C) M  O N  C) NA
Community participation
O Private sector development                  ( ) H  0 SU () M  () N  () NA
O Public sector management                    ( )   0 0 SU* M        VN  ()NA
Z  Other (Please specify)                     0) H  () SU    M  () N  () NA
NGO and community based group was modest
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
[l Lending                                          ( H)S * S  C) U  (O HU
] Supervision                                       (HS * S  C) U  0 HU
L] Overall                                         (C) H S    s  C) u  (D Hu
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       C) HS * S  C) U    i HU
O Government implementation performance             C-) HS 0 S  C) U  (D HU
O lmplementation agency performance                 * HS C() S   C) U  (D HU
O Overall                                           0 HS *S   () U  (0HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Demographic Health Survey (1992) Macro-International, Maryland, USA
2. Diallo, Issakha and Zeitlin, Marianne (199?) Etude de lafiabilite et de la validite des donnees du PNC.
3. EXCO AFRIQUE, (1998) Etude de l1evaluation relative a la composante AEP du PNC.
4. Groupe PROGRESIS, (1998) Faisabilite du detachement du PNC.
5. Institut de Recherche et Developpement (IRD), (mars 1999) Relatif a 1evaluation de l'iinpact du Projet
Nutrition Corntmunauttaire.
6. M.R. Beal et Compagnie international (1998) Etude Cout/Efficacite du Programme de Nutrition
Cominmunautaire, Dakar, Senegal
7. Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) (1996) Governement of Senegal/UNICEF
8. Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) (2000) Governement of Senegal/UNICEF
9. Ndiaye, Alfred Inis (1999) Etude sur les strategies IEC de contingence.
10. Unite de Nutrition IRD (1999) RelatiJa l'evaluation de l'iinpact du Projet de Nutrition
Communautaire. Dakar, Senegal
11. Orstom, (date) Enquete Point zero a St. Louis
12. Orstom, (date) Enquete Point un a St. Louis
13. Orstom, (date) Enquete Point zero a Diourbel
14. Phillips, M. and Sanghvi, T. (1996) The economic analysis of nutrition projects; guiding principles and
examples
15. Rapport d'Execution du Projet de Nutrition Coinmunautaire (PNC cr.2723.SE) (2000), Commission
National de Lutte contre la Malnutrition/AGETIP, Dakar, Senegal
16. Sy, Fatimata (1998) Etude sur les connaissances, attitudes etpratiques des beneficiaires du PNC.
Tulane University.
17. Staff Appraisal Report Community Nutrition Project (1995) World Bank, Washington DC
18. Supervision reports, aide memoires, BTORs and other monitoring reports on the Community Nutrition
report between 1996 and 2000.
19. Toure, Francoise (1999) Comporteinent, Attitudes et Pratiques des populations a l'egard de
l'assainissement
20. World Bank Poverty Assessmnent (1995), Washington DC
- 34 -



Additional Annex 8. Executive Summary Borrower/Executing Agency
A. Rappel des obiectifs du Pro2et:
Les objectifs de developpement sont les suivants:
* stopper la deterioration nutritionnel des groupes les plus vulnerables (enfants mal nourris de moins de
trois ans et femmes enceintes et allaitantes) dans les quartiers urbains defavorises cibles;
* alimenter en eau potable les quartiers actuellement non desservis et qui sont concernes par le
programme de nutrition ; et
*  ameliorer la securite alimentaire des menages ruraux et urbains pauvres pendant les periodes critiques
de vulnerabilite.
Les objectifs de la mise en ccuvre du Projet sont les suivants:
a) demontrer qu'il est possible de realiser A 1'echelon des communautes des interventions de nutrition
ciblees et efficaces par rapport A leurs couts ; et
b) executer un programme de lutte contre la pauvrete par l'intermediaire d'un organisme prive.
B. L'Ecoute mutuelle a e  erigee en principe de ref6rence, elle a permis de faire eclore, grace a des
programmes sp6cifiques de renforcement de capacites, des energies contribuant de maniere efficace A la
resolution des problemes poses a la Communaute en matiere de nutrition, de sante, d'environnement et de
revenus. On peut citer en exemple : la selection des micro entrepreneurs, le choix et l'emplacement des
maisons devant abriter les centres de nutrition communautaire, le trace des canalisations d'eau,
1'emplacement des bomes fontaines et le choix de leurs gestionnaires. Tout cela a constitue une excellente
experience de bonne gouvernance locale et de potentialisation d'un Capital Social, contribution de la
CommunautW tout venant.
Ce partenariat a e  observe au niveau des bailleurs de fonds, A savoir la Banque Mondiale, la
Cooperation Allemande (A travers la KFW) et le Programme Alimentaire Mondiale. Ces parties se sont
retrouvees dans le processus d'identification, de formulation et de planification des objectifs du Projet aux
c6tes du Gouvemement du Senegal. 11 a e  renforc6 au cours des missions conjointes de suivi et de la revue
A mi parcours du Projet et des rencontres avec la Commission Nationale.
La contractualisation des services nutritionnels par I'AGETIP avec le secteur prive communautaire
(maitres d'ceuvres et micro entreprises, jeunes dipl6mes au ch6mage et vivant dans les quartiers cibles) ont
pennis de d6montrer l'efficacite de la maitrise d'ouvrage deleguee dans le secteur social. Le renforcement
de capacites dans les domaines de la nutrition, de la sant6 et de la gestion leur a permis de devenir de
veritables prestataires de services et par lA des agents de developpement dans leur propre environnement.
La gestion privee des bornes fontaines implantees par le volet AEP par les GIE de Resultats atteints:
Les principaux resultats obtenus par le Projet sont juges satisfaisants au regard des indicateurs de
perfonnance et des conclusions d'enquetes menees dans les zones ciblees. La strategie d'intervention
novatrice visant A delivrer des services nutritionnels par le biais du secteur prive, avec l'implication de 1183
agents micro entrepreneurs op6rant dans 292 centres de nutrition sous la supervision de 62 maitres
d'ceuvre, a permis d'obtenir les resultats suivants de 1995 A 1999:
445 010 beneficiaires, dont 253 292 femmes (57%) et 191 718 enfants (43%) ont beneficie des services
nutritionnels;
- 35-



* 78% des femmes inscrites assistent regulierement aux causeries sur l'education nutritionnelle et
sanitaire en vue d'un changement de comportements sur ces dits aspects;
* 92% des enfants inscrits sont peses mensuellement pour beneficier du suivi/promotion de leur
croissance en presence de leurs meres;
* 202 943 personnes ont beneficie d'une supplementation alimentaire ( farine a base de cereales locales +
micro nutriments pour une quantite de 2565 T);
* une reduction de 69% en moyenne de la proportion des malnutris est observee chez les enfants inscrits
sur une cohorte de 6 mois;
65 000 metres lineaires de canalisation d'eau pour le branchement des menages et 118 bornes fontaines
ont e  realis6s, contribuant a l'accessibilite des populations des quartiers cibles a une eau saine et
propre.
C. Lecons maieures a tirer de cette experience:
Le processus participatif adopte dans le Projet de Nutrition Communautaire au niveau de l'identification
de la demande, de la formulation des objectifs jusqu'a la strategie de mise en ceuvre dans le cadre de
l'atelier de planification ZOPP a permis:
i) la creation d'un cadre de dialogue entre tous les acteurs du projet (populations ciblees, leaders
communautaires, ONG, Elus Locaux, Autorites Administratives, les Universitaires et le Secteur Priv6);
ii) la mise en coherence des activites a mener, les criteres de suivi, les indicateurs de performance;
iii) le partage des r6les et responsabilites dans la gestion et le suivi des activites;
iv) I'etablissement d'un code de confiance et d'adhesion pour la reussite du Projet.
Le schema institutionnel adopte a savoir: a) la Commission Nationale de Lutte contre la Malnutrition
(CNLMN), decentralisee a travers le Comite Regional de Pilotage (CRP), le Comite Departemental
(CDP) et le Comite Local de Pilotage du quartier (CLP), traduit la forte volonte politique du
Gouvemement dont le role s'est limite a ses missions traditionnelles de planification, de budgetisation, de
suivi et d'evaluation ; b) I'Agence d'Execution (AGETIP) pour une conduite efficace et transparente des
activit6s ; c) sous l'eclairage technique d'un Comite de Suivi (CS) sur les questions relatives a la Nutrition
et a l'Approvisionnement en Eau Potable. Ce scheina a montre son efficacite dans la gestion du Projet en
permettant a chaque partie de jouer pleinement son role sur la base de tennes de reference fixes et acceptes.
Chaque annie, la Commission Nationale valide le plan d'actions, le budget et le ciblage des zones
d'intervention du Projet; I'Agence d'Execution realise les activites de terrain, consulte le Comite de Suivi en
cas de besoin et rend compte de ses missions sur une base semestrielle. Ces parties sont ensemble a toute
etape du processus d'evaluation du Projet. Elles analysent les resultats et reorientent au besoin pour
garantir une meilleure atteinte des objectifs et la consolidation des acquis. La Communaute se retrouve
dans ce processus d'evaluation (missions de suivi periodiques, mission d'evaluation a mi parcours et
mission d'ach6vement) a travers l'opinion du Comit6 de Pilotage et de celle des Beneficiaires.
Le partenariat entretenu entre la Commission Nationale, I'Agence d'Execution avec son reseau de maitres
- 36-



d'couvre communautaires et de micro entrepreneurs communautaires, les Comites Locaux de Pilotage et les
Beneficiaires, a permis au projet de definir des interventions appropri6es pour attenuer la deterioration de la
situation nutritionnelle dans les quartiers pauvres cibl6s. femmes issus de groupements f6minins a prouv6
son efficacite. L'eau est devenue accessible et disponible a tout moment dans les quartiers. Le GIE
contractuel avec la Societe des Eaux (SDE) paie dans les delais requis la facture bimestrielle pr6sentee, se
remunere A concurrence de 85% du reliquat des recettes provenant de la vente de l'eau apres paiement des
factures et verse les 15% a la caisse du centre de nutrition du quartier. La notion de volonte et de capacite
des couches defavorisees A s'impliquer dans la prise en charge de la resolution de leurs problemes a ete
demontree. Cette approche va etre repliquee par le Gouvemement pour la gestion des 400 bornes fontaines
qui seront mises en place dans le cadre du Projet Eau A Long Terme. Ceci est facilite par la presence de la
SONES et de la SDE au niveau de la Commission Nationale de Lutte contre la Malnutrition.
La Mobilisation Sociale de tous les acteurs communautaires, des populations en particulier les femmes, a
pennis de cristalliser les capacites et les efforts des populations en un capital social tres fort dans la lutte
contre la malnutrition dans leurs quartiers respectifs.
Cette Mobilisation a fortement contribue A I'appropriation du projet par les beneficiaires communautaires.
Elles ont developpe au delA des services nutritionnels, d'autres activites connexes au niveau de leurs
centres de nutrition. 11 s'agit d'activites liees aux garderies pour le developpement de la petite enfance avec
la prise en charge d'enfants anciens beneficiaires, A l'alphabetisation des femmes de ces quartiers, au micro
credit et A la tontine entre femmes beneficiaires constituees en groupements. Elles ont transforme le centre
de nutrition en centre de developpement du quartier.
Toutes les activites men&es dans un centre de nutrition generent des recettes (contribution hebdomadaire de
25 FCFA de la femme beneficiaire, 15% des recettes des bornes fontaines, recettes des garderies). Ces
fonds sont affectes au financement d'autres activites sanitaires (deparasitage, chloroquinisation, transport
vers les centres de reference et achat des medicaments prescrits aux enfants des plus pauvres), a la
remuneration des prestataires de services (monitrices de garderie et de classe d'alphab6tisation) et aux frais
d'entretien (paiement des factures d'eau et d'electricite, entretien des infrastructures) du centre sur decision
du Comite de l'ilotage. Ces actes de gestion relevent de la volonte de la communaute A se prendre en
charge. Cela donne raison de dire que la forte appropriation du projet a fourni les conditions de sa
durabilite et de sa perennite.
D. Recommandations:
Les resultats obtenus sur le terrain de la lutte contre la malnutrition en milieu urbain et peri urbain
encouragent A la consolidation et A la poursuite des interventions en zone rurale. Cependant cette poursuite
necessitera la prise en compte de la demande sociale A travers d'autres activites dans les domaines de
I'assainissement, de l'alphab6tisation, du developpement de la petite enfance, de l'acces au micro credit
pour I'accroissement des revenus, de lutte contre le VI-IISIDA. La contribution des Collectivites Locales
dans le financement de la lutte contre la malnutrition est fortement suggeree.
Pour la poursuite et la replicabilite du Projet, il est important de conduire une seconde etude
< CoOt/Efficacit6 >> pour valider la pertinence et tirer les lecons de ce type d'intervention de lutte contre la
malnutrition en milieu communautaire, mais en integrant surtout le facteur capital social qui a joue un role
determninant dans 1'execution du Projet.
Dans le cadre de 1'execution du Programme de Developpement Int;gre de la Sante (PDIS), il s'avere
- 37 -



necessaire de prendre en compte les besoins en infrastructures du type Centre de Recuperation et
d'Education Nutritionnelle (CREN) au niveau du dispositif sanitaire dans les zones defavorisees pour la
prise en charge effective de la malnutrition severe chez les enfants ages de moins de 5 ans.
Au niveau de l'IEC, il est imperieux d'inclure un volet education relatif a la sante de la reproduction, avec
un accent particulier les MST/SIDA et l'espacement des naissances. La population des femmes enr6lees
dans le projet est une cible importante pour la conduite de ces programmes de sante.
11 est necessaire d'inclure dans le paquet de services fournis par les centres, la supplementation de certains
micro nutriments et le deparasitage systematique. Les etudes realisees au cours de l'execution du Projet ont
montre que les carences en micro nutriments chez les enfants constituent un problme identifie comme
determinant de la non recuperation d'une population d'enfants malnutris cibles. Cette population a e
identifiee dans le groupe des 18% qui ne parvienne guere a recuperer au bout des six (6) de cohorte. Les
conclusions de l'Etude sur les Strategies integrees de lutte contre la carence en Fer, I'Avitaminose A et les
Parasitoses intestinales, militent en faveur d'une demarche communautaire sous le controle du Ministere de
la Sant&
- 38 -



