Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2723 SE
                        Development Credit Agreement
                        (Community Nutrition Project)
                                   between
                             REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Dated May 26, 1995
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2723 SE
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project;
    (B)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations'
World Food Program (WFP) a grant (the WFP Grant) in an amount
equivalent to five million two hundred thousand dollars ($
5,200,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the WFP Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and WFP;
    (C)   the Project will be carried out by the Agence
d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Public contre le Sous-Emploi
(AGETIP) with the Borrower's assistance; and
    WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and AGETIP;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit  Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
          "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
          otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on
          account of expenditures in the territories of any
          country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
          produced in, or services supplied from, such
          territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
          persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if
          such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank,
          is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
          Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter
          of the United Nations."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
    (a)   "AGETIP" means Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet
Public contre le Sous-Emploi, a public works executing entity
established in accordance with the Law No. 66-70 of the
Borrower, dated July 13, 1966;
    (b)   "AGETIP Account" means the account referred to in
paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 3 to the Agreement;
    (c)   "Beneficiary" means the recipients of services provided
by a CNC (as hereinafter defined) under the Project;
    (d)   "CFA Franc" means the currency of the Borrower;
    (e)   "CNC" means Community Nutrition Center;
    (f)   "Convention" means the agreement entered into between
the Borrower and AGETIP, dated January 7, 1993, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes the
Procedures Manual and all other annexes, schedules and
attachments thereto;
    (g)   "Contrat de Maitrise" means the contract referred to in
paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
    (h)   "GIE" means Groupements d'interets economiques, small
economic interest groups within the territory of the Borrower
organized in accordance with the Law No. 84/37 of the Borrower;
    (i)   "Implementing Enterprise" means an entity to which a
sub-contract has been awarded for the management of one or
several CNCs;
    (j)   "IEC" means Information, Education and Communication;
    (k)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health and
Social Actions;
    (l)   "NMD" means Nutrition Management Division of AGETIP;
    (m)   "National Commission" means the Borrower's Commission
Page  3
Nationale de Lutte Contre la Malnutrition, established in
accordance with the Presidential Decree No. 94/556;
    (n)   "National Nutrition Action Plan" means the national
nutrition action plan of the Borrower;
    (o)   "Nutrition Program" means the program of activities
carried out by the Borrower, in the area of nutrition;
    (p)   "Procedures Manual" means the Procedures Manual, to be
used by AGETIP to govern its operations and annexed to the
Convention, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes any schedules to the Procedures Manual;
    (q)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated October 6, 1994 and
November 30, 1994, between the Borrower and the Association;
    (r)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and AGETIP, of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
    (s)   "First Project Year" means the twelve-month period
beginning from the Effective Date and ending twelve months
thereafter and "Project Year" means any twelve-month period
beginning at the end of the First Project Year or the end of
subsequent Project Years;
    (t)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
    (u)   "Sub-Project" means all activities related to the
management of one or several CNCs carried out under the
Project;
    (v)   "Sub-Project Agreement" means an agreement to be
entered into between AGETIP and an Implementing Enterprise for
the execution of a Sub-Project; and
    (w)   "SONES" means the Borrower's National Water Company.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
    Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eleven million seven hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,700,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFA Francs a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
Page  4
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
    Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
    (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
    (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on  April 15 and  October 15 in each
year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October
15, commencing October 15, 2005 and ending April 15, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on April
15, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of
such principal amount.
    (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association
and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant
Page  5
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
    (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
    Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and, to this end, and without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its obligations under this Agreement,
shall:
         (i)  cause AGETIP to perform all its obligations
              set forth in the Project Agreement;
        (ii)  cause AGETIP to carry out the Project, with
              due diligence and efficiency and  in
              conformity with appropriate administrative,
              financial and engineering practices, and in
              accordance with the provisions of the
              Convention;
       (iii)  take and cause to be taken all action,
              including the provision of funds, facilities,
              services and other resources, necessary or
              appropriate to enable AGETIP to carry out the
              Project; and
        (iv)  not take or permit to be taken any action
              which would prevent or interfere with the
              performance by AGETIP.
    (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to AGETIP in accordance with the provisions of the
Convention.
    (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Convention in such manner as to cause AGETIP to execute the
Project, to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Convention or
any provision thereof.
    (d)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
       Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, in conjunction
with AGETIP and the Association, undertake a joint review of
the Project during the third calendar quarter of each year
during which they shall exchange views on matters relating to:
Page  6
(i) the progress of the Project; (ii) AGETIP's management and
its administrative cost structure; (iii) the performance by
AGETIP and the Borrower of their respective obligations under
the Convention (including compliance with procurement
procedures and audit); and (iv) other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
    (b)   Not later than one month prior to each such review, the
Borrower shall, jointly with AGETIP, furnish to the
Association, for its review and comments, and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, a report on the
progress and status of the Project and a plan of operation for
the forthcoming year.
    (c)   Following each such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take, or cause to be taken, any corrective action deemed
necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation
of the Project, or to implement such other measures as may have
been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association in
furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
    Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) shall be carried out by AGETIP pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
    Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and  in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
of the Project;
    (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
    (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Association's  comments thereon.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
         (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained in
              accordance with sound accounting practices,
              records and accounts reflecting such
              expenditures;
        (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
              invoices, bills, receipts and other
              documents) evidencing such expenditures are
              retained until at least one year after the
              Association has received the audit report for
              the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
              from the Credit Account was made; and
       (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
              examine such records.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
         (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
Page  7
              paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those
              for the Special Account for each fiscal year
              audited, in accordance with appropriate
              auditing principles consistently applied, by
              independent auditors acceptable to the
              Association;
        (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as
              available, but in any case, not later than
              three months after the end of each such year
              the report of such audit by said auditors, of
              such scope and in such detail as the
              Association shall have reasonably requested,
              including a separate opinion by said auditors
              as to whether the statements of expenditure
              submitted during such fiscal year, together
              with the procedures and internal controls
              involved in their preparation, can be relied
              upon to support the related withdrawals; and
       (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
              information concerning said records and
              accounts and the audit thereof as the
              Association shall from time to time
              reasonably request.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Association
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that AGETIP will be able
to perform its obligations under the Convention or the Project
Agreement;
    (b)   Law No. 66-70 of the Borrower shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of AGETIP to perform any
of its obligations under the Convention or the Project
Agreement;
    (c)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of AGETIP, or for the suspension of its
operations;
    (d)   AGETIP shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement; and
    (e)   (i) subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
          (A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
          of any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the
          financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
          cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
          to the terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
          (B) any such loan shall have become due and payable
          prior to the agreed maturity thereof; and
          (ii) sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
          apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
          of the Association that: (A) such suspension,
          cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused
          by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
          obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
          funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
          from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
          with the obligations of the Borrower under this
          Agreement.
Page  8
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower; and
    (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   AGETIP has adopted and implemented an accounting and
financial management system, acceptable to the Association;
    (b)   AGETIP has entered into an agreement with SONES, for
the purposes of implementation of Part B of the Project, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association;
    (c)   AGETIP has, in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, employed
independent auditors, to audit its records, accounts and
financial statements;
    (d)   the Borrower has deposited into the AGETIP Account an
aggregate initial amount of not less than $400 000 equivalent
in CFA Francs, as its contribution for the Project for the
first Project Year;
    (e)   the Borrower has submitted evidence that WFP has
confirmed, under the terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association and reflected in the WFP Grant Agreement, the
availability of funds to purchase the local ingredients for the
purposes of the supplementary feeding program referred to in
Part A.2 of the Project; and
    (f)   AGETIP has, in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement, appointed
the key staff of NMD referred to in Section 2.11 of the Project
Agreement.
    Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association that  the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by AGETIP and is legally
binding upon AGETIP in accordance with its terms.
    Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
Page  9
          Ministere de l'Economie et
          des Finances
          Rue Charles Laine
          B.P. 4017
          Dakar
          Senegal
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                MINIFINANCES               3203G
                Dakar
    For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck
                                                   Authorized Representative
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                                                      Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated              % of
                             (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Equipment                                      100%
    (a) For Part C of           150,000
Page  10
        the Project
    (b) Other                   800,000
(2) Consultants' Services
    (including training
    and studies)                                   100%
    (a) For Part C of           650,000
        the Project
    (b) Other                 8,000,000
(3) Refunding of                350,000            Amount due
    Project                                        pursuant to
    Preparation                                    Section 2.02(c)
    Advance                                        of this Agreement
(4) Unallocated               1,750,000
                              _________
        TOTAL                11,700,000
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
    (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
    (b)  payments made for expenditures against categories 1
(a), and 2 (a) unless the Borrower has completed a study on
rural household food security, and finalized an action plan for
the third and fourth Project Years, satisfactory to the
Association, to implement the findings of the said study.
3.  It is understood that the percentages in the table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule have been calculated on the basis
of the provisions in Sections 3.09 and 1091 respectively of the
Law No. 92-40 of the Borrower, dated July 9, 1992, (the Code
General des Impots), which exempts goods to be financed under
the Project from the proceeds of the Credit from taxes and
customs duties levied by the Borrower. If any change is made to
said law which has the effect of levying taxes or customs
duties on such goods, the percentages referred to above shall
be decreased in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08
of the General Conditions.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditures
for expenditures for goods and services under contracts not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (a) assist the
Borrower in arresting the  deterioration in the nutritional
status of the most vulnerable groups in targeted poor urban
areas; (b) provide potable water to unserviced areas targeted
under the nutrition program of the Borrower; and (c) enhance
household food security among the poor urban population and
vulnerable households in targeted rural areas during critical
periods.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  11
Part A:      Nutrition
1.  Carrying out an IEC intervention program aimed at changing
nutritional behavioral patterns.
2.  Carrying out a program for supplementary feeding for
pregnant and nursing women as well as children below the age of
three and carrying out a program for child growth monitoring.
3.  Carrying out a basic preventive health-care program, through
referral services to health posts and centers.
4.  Carrying out a training program for the benefit of non-
governmental organizations and individuals associated with
supervision and implementation of the Nutrition Program.
Part B:      Water
1.  Carrying out a program to improve the drinking water
supplies system, including extension of the water supply
network to peri-urban areas of communities targeted for the
Nutrition Program.
2.  Carrying out a program of community-sensitization and
sanitary education for, inter alia, micro-enterprises.
Part C:      Food Security
     Carrying out a pilot household food security program for
rural food insecure areas, including trial testing and field
monitoring.
Part D:      Social Mobilization and IEC
     Carrying out a social mobilization and IEC campaign to
ensure beneficiary participation and ownership, including the
establishment of  local steering  committees composed of local
GIEs, associations and local authorities, and dissemination of
information through all possible media to bring about
behavioural change of nutrition, health and sanitation of the
target-population.
Part E:      Capacity Building
1.  Organization of on-the-job training services related to work
organization, management, technical and nutritional training to
small and micro-entrepreneurs.
2.  Organization of a training program for supervisory services.
3.  Organization of training on planning and implementation of
IEC, including development and use of materials and inter-
personal communication techniques.
Part F:      Monitoring and Evaluation
1.  Establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system.
2.  Carrying out of monitoring and evaluation of the Project as
well as operations research and technical and sectoral studies
to sharpen the impact of the Project in the targeted areas.
3.  Carrying out of systematic client consultation to generate
feed-back on the implementation of the Project, including feed-
back from the Beneficiaries.
4.     Updating of the National Nutrition Action Plan and
strengthening of the  nutrition monitoring capability of MOH.
                              * * *
Page  12
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1999.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                           Implementation Program
1.   (a)     The Borrower shall, no later than June 30, 1997,
carry out in conjunction with AGETIP and the Association, based
on performance indicators acceptable to the Association, a
comprehensive mid-term review of the progress of the Project.
Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing, the
review shall, inter alia, focus on: (i) the feasibility of
separating the NMD from AGETIP to make it a separate agency;
(ii) the necessity for AGETIP of a financial specialist; (iii)
the program on the rural household food security including the
action plan related to the implementation of said program; (iv)
progress made towards the achievement of the objectives of the
Project, and the additional measures to accomplish the
objectives; (v) the progress achieved by the Borrower and
AGETIP, respectively, during the current fiscal year, having
regard to the performance indicators agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association; (vi) the status of financial and
procurement performance under the Project; (vii) the proposed
budget and work program for the forthcoming fiscal year; (viii)
the adequacy of arrangements for the selection, financing and
implementation of Sub-Projects, and the  merits of cost
recovery; and (ix) in order to consolidate the achievements of
the Project, details of a proposed plan to ensure the best use
of the resources.
    (b)  No later than one month prior to the mid-term review
referred to in paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, a report in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request, including an
evaluation of the progress achieved in the implementation of
the Project.
    (c)  The Borrower shall, promptly and diligently, after
completing such mid-term review, implement, or cause AGETIP to
implement, the recommendations arising out of said mid-term
review, as agreed between the Borrower, the Association and
AGETIP.
2.  (a)  The Borrower shall open, in the name of AGETIP, an
account in local currency to be operated and maintained by
AGETIP (the AGETIP Account), in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association, and, in accordance
with the schedule described in (b) of this paragraph, shall
deposit therein its annual contribution of at least $400,000
equivalent or all such amounts as may be payable to AGETIP,
under any Contrat de Maitrise, or on account of a Sub-Project.
    (b)  The Borrower shall deposit its contribution to the costs
of the Project into the AGETIP Account in accordance with the
following schedule: (i) not later than July 1, 1996, for the
second Project Year; (ii) not later than July 1, 1997, for the
third Project Year; and (iii) not later than July 1, 1998, for
the fourth Project Year.
3.  (a)  For the purpose of coordination of the Project at the
national level, the Borrower shall establish a  National
Steering Committee which shall consist, inter alia, of
representatives from the institutions associated with the
financing of the Project.
    (b)  For the purpose of coordination of the Project at the
local level, and to ensure systematic client consultation, the
Borrower shall establish a District Steering Committee (DSC) in
each one of the districts selected for the purpose of the
Project. The DSC shall consist of a representative of the
Prefecture, the chief medical officer, the mayor of the
Page  13
district concerned, the neighborhood leaders, and the technical
agents involved in the implementation of the Project.
4.  The Borrower shall, no later than March 31 of 1996, 1997 and
1998 respectively, in consultation with AGETIP, submit to the
Association, for its review and comment, a list of targeted
areas for intervention under Parts A and B of the Project, for
the second, third and fourth year of the Project respectively.
The said list shall have been reviewed by the National
Commission.
5.  The Borrower shall, not later than July  31,1996, submit to
the Association, for review and comment, the terms of reference
of a study  for updating the National Nutrition Action Plan.
6.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Sub-
Projects shall be approved on the basis of the eligibility
criteria, procedures and terms and conditions specified in the
Procedures Manual.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                               Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
    (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
    (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to CFA Francs 600,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFA
Francs 300,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
    (b)  (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                such intervals as the Association shall specify.
Page  14
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.  (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  15
    (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit
in the Special Account.
    (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
