CREDIT NUMBER 2723 SE
Project Agreement
(Community Nutrition Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGENCE D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX D'INTERET
PUBLIC CONTRE LE SOUS-EMPLOI
Dated    '2(6       , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2723 SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 & C ?                 , 1995, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASoCIATION (the Association) and AGENCE
D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX D'INTERET PUBLIC CONTRE LE SOUS-EMPLOI
(AGETIP).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement, of even date herewith,
between Republic of Senegal (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eleven million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,700,000) on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that AGETIP agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association, as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a Convention entered into between the Borrower and AGETIP, AGETIP
has agreed to carry out the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Convention; and
WHEREAS AGETIP, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE H
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. AGETIP declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause


﻿-2-
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. AGETIP shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03,
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) AGETIP shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Convention. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AGETIP shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Convention or any provision thereof.
(b)    Without limitation to paragraph (a) above, AGETIP shall exercise its
rights in relation to each Sub-Project in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower, the Association and AGETIP and comply with its obligations under this
Agreement and the Convention.
Section 2.05. (a) AGETIP shall, at dhe request of the Association, exchange views
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement, the Convention and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b)    AGETIP shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by AGETIP of its obligations under this
Agreement and the Convention.
(c)    Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, AGETIP shall
participate fully in the midterm review referred to in paragraph I of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall: (a) furnish to the Borrower and
the Association such reports as may be required for that purpose, and in such detail as the
Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of the
Project; and (b) following each such review promptly take, or assist the Borrower in
taking, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the
implementation of the Project, or to implement, or assist the Borrower in implementing,


﻿-3-
such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of
the objectives of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) AGETIP shall carry out, on a semi-annual basis, a management
audit of the Project. The said audit shall make detailed assessment of the compliance of
the rules and procedures specified in the Procedures Manual by the different entities
associated with the implementation of the Project.
(b)    AGETIP shall carry out, on an annual basis, a technical audit of the
Project. The said audit shall focus on the quality of services rendered by the Project, the
quality of supervIsion by NMD, and the relation between AGETIP and the different
entities associated with the implementation of the Project at the national, district and local
level.
(c)    AGETIP shall, not later than three months after the end of each annual
or semi-annual period referred to in (a) and (b) above, as the case may be, furnish to the
Association, the reports of said management or technical audit, as the case may be, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 2.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.02 of the General
Conditions and, except as the Association may otherwise agree, AGETIP shall submit
quarterly reports on the progress of the Project to the Association, giving details of the
progress of Sub-Projects, training program and studies, and the status of financial and
procurement performance under the Project.
Section 2.08. AGETIP shall, not later than one month after the Effective Date,
take all necessary measures to correct the findings of the pilot phase of the Project and
implement the agreed actions reflected in the evaluation report.
Section 2.09. AGETIP shall, not later than July 1, 1995, prepare and submit to
the Association, for review and comment, a training program for entrepreneurs and
supervisors and an IEC program for beneficiaries under Part E of the Project. The said
program shall have been reviewed by the National Commission.
Section 2.10. AGETIP shall, not later than July 1, 1995, submit to the
Association: (i) a roster of pre-qualified small and micro-entrepreneurs and supervisors;
(ii) the terms of reference for base-line and impact evaluation studies on measuring the
impact of the Project; (iii) a supervision guide, with terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association, to be used by the supervisors in the course of the management of CNCs;
and (iv) a list of monitoring indicators for the Project satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-4-
Section 2.11. AGETIP shall appoint the following key staff for NMD, with terms
of reference and qualifications specified in the Procedures Manual: (i) a Divisional
Director; (ii) one nutrition specialist; (iii) one health specialist; (iv) one water specialist;
(v) one IEC/social mobilization expert; (vi) one accountant; (vii) one training specialist;
and (viii) one monitoring and evaluation specialist. AGETIP shall inform the Association
prior to the removal, replacement or transfer of the Divisional Director referred to in (i)
above.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AGETIP
Section 3.01. (a) AGETIP shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices, and under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
(b)    AGETIP shall ensure that the position of Director General of AGETIP
shall be kept filled at all times by a person with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.02. AGETIP shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound financial and technical practices.
Section 3.03. AGETIP shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) AGETIP shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)    AGETIP shall:
(i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements), including those for the Special Account and the


﻿-5-
AGETIP Account, audited on a semi-annual basis, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than three months after the end of each semiannual audit
period: (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of
AGETIP thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)  the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)    If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify AGETIP of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                     248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For AGETIP:
Agence d'Ex6cution des Travaux
d'Intir8t Public
Contre le Sous-Emploi
Bd. Djily Mbaye & Berenger Ferraud
B.P. 143, Dakar
Senegal
Facsimile: 21 04 78


﻿-7-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,and any document
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of AGETIP, or by
AGETIP on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be
taken or executed by the Director General of AGETIP, or such other person or persons
as the Director General shall designate in writing, and AGETIP shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   ISI                                     ,KJ       Ys2
Regional VicPPresident
Africa
AGENCE D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX
D'INTERET PUBLIC CONTRE LE SOUS-EMPLOI
By                                       Authorze RpenAtive
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.    Procurement of Goods
Part A:       General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:       International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of this Part B.
(a)    Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)    Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:       Other Procurement Procedures
1.     National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract and $300,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.


﻿- 10 -
2.     National Shopping
Vehicles, small office items, office supplies, estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent
or less per contract and $100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:       Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of Appendix
I to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.


﻿- 11 -
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall
not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions
to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract
value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
- Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


