Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17249
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
- FINSAC II
(CR. 2318-GH)
December 22, 1997
Private Sector & Finance
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      = Cedi
US $1.00           = Cedis 2,000 (July 1997)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         African Development Bank
BOG         Bank of Ghana
FINSAC II  Second Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FINSAC I   Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GCB         Ghana Commercial Bank
GSE         Ghana Stock Exchange
ICAG        Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ghana
NBFI        Non-Bank Financial Institutions
NPART       Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust
NSCB        National Savings and Credit Bank
SAC         Structural Adjustrnent Credit
SSB         Social Security Bank
SSNIT       Social Security and National Investment Trust
Vice President                    J. L. Sarbib
Director                          P. Harrold
Division Chief/Sector Manager     T. W. Allen
Staff Member                      G. Byam



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
- FINSAC II
(CR. 2318-GH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FINSAC II) in Ghana for which IDA Credit 231 8-GH in the amount of SDR
74.0 million (US$100 million equivalent at appraisal) was approved on December 19, 1991, and
made effective on May 14, 1992. Cofinancing was provided by the Swiss Government in the form
of a grant of Swiss Francs 15 million (US$ 10.1 million equivalent), administered by IDA.
The credit was closed on March 31, 1997, two years after the original closing date of March
31, 1995. An undisbursed amount of SDR 2.6 million equivalent has been canceled.
The ICR was prepared by an IDA mission which visited Ghana in September 1997. The
borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by arranging field visits and meetings, and
providing data information and comments on the draft report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GOVERNMENT OF GHANA
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
- FINSAC H
(CR. 2318-GH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction (Part I) ......................................................i
Program  Objectives and Design (Part II)                           ...........................................i
Achievement of Objectives (Part III) ......................................................i
Program  Sustainability (Part IV) ......................................................iii
Bank and Borrower Performance (Parts V, VI) ..................................................... iv
Assessment of Outcome (Part VII) ..................................................... iv
Future Operations (Part VIII) ................................................... .. iv
Lessons Learned (Part IX) ..................................................... iv
PART I. INTRODUCTION
A. Overview ......................................................1
B. Recent Economic Developments ......................................................1
C. The Financial Sector ......................................................2
PART II.  PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN .............................................2
PART  III.   ACHIEVEMENT  OF OBJECTIVES ......................................................4
PART  IV.   PROGRAM   SUSTAINABILITY ......................................................                        8
PART V.  BANK PERFORMANCE ......................................................8
PART  VI.   BORROWER  PERFORMANCE ......................................................                           9
PART  VII.  ASSESSMENT  OF OUTCOME ......................................................                          9
PARTVIII.  FUTURE  OPERATIONS .....................................................                               11
PART IX.    KEY  LESSONS LEARNED  ................1..................................... 1
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Table 5: Studies Included in Project
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 7: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Table 8: Resources - Missions
APPENDICES
A. Policy Matrix
B. Selected Macroeconomic and Monetary Indicators
C. Selected Banking System Indicators



I



GHANA
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
- FINSAC II
(CR. 2318-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction (Part I)
1.    The Second Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC II) was a continuation of FINSAC
I, implemented during 1988-1991. The first credit, approved in FY 1988 for an amount of US$106.6
million equivalent, supported an initial sector adjustment program for addressing a near-crisis
situation in the financial sector, brought about by a severely distressed banking system. The
performance of FINSAC I was reviewed in Project Completion Report (PCR) No. 14158 dated
March 29, 1995. The second credit, FINSAC II, for US$100 million equivalent, was approved on
December 19, 1991, and closed on March 31, 1997. The two credits were cofinanced by the Swiss
Government and Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan. Both credits were the subject of
Performance Audit Report (PAR) No. 16789 dated June 25, 1997
2.    At the time the first FINSAC program was conceptualized (1988), the formal financial
system in Ghana was dominated by state-owned banks, which were all experiencing financial and
operational difficulties to varying degrees. Banking concentration was heavy, with the largest bank
(the state-owned Ghana Commercial Bank) accounting for almost one-half of total system assets.
The Bank of Ghana (BOG) had oversight responsibility for the financial system, but was constrained
by inadequate statutory autonomy, the absence of an appropriate regulatory and prudential
framework, as well as its own limited institutional capacity, notably in the key area of banking
supervision. BOG lent heavily to the Government, and the banking system to state enterprises. The
money market was embryonic, and the capital market practically non-existent.
Program Objectives and Design (Part II)
3.    As a follow-on operation, FINSAC II was designed with the dual purpose of (a)
consolidating previous achievements by continuing and completing a number of unfinished tasks;
and (b) removing some remaining policy distortions in the financial sector and introducing
additional sector reforms. This design is reflected in the program's main objectives, to (1) increase
financial intermediation by reducing its costs, through (i) adequate remuneration of reserves imposed
on the banks and deposited with the central bank; and (ii) reduction of the corporate tax on financial
institutions to the level applicable to other sectors; (2) strengthen the central bank in its statutory
autonomy, financial condition and institutional capacity; (3) complete the bank restructuring
program started under the first credit; (4) pursue the recovery of assets transferred from distressed
banks to the Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust (NPART); (5) prepare a program for divestiture
of public sector shareholdings in banks, and implement the program's first phase covering the three
largest banks; (6) develop non-bank financial institutions, starting with the establishment of an



appropriate regulatory and prudential framework for their operations; and (7) pursue the upgrading
of professional skills, through the continuation of training programs, and further institutional
capacity building including the establishment of the National Banking College. The program's
design and sequencing, and its links to the initial sector adjustment program supported by FINSAC I,
were appropriate. For example, the restructuring of distressed banks was initiated under the first
program as a pre-requisite for their subsequent attempt at privatization under the second. Also, the
formal banking system, insolvent and requiring priority attention in the late 1980s, was the main
focus of the first credit, leaving the non-bank financial system to be addressed under the second.
4.    The broadening of the scope of FINSAC II, however, stopped short of macroeconomic
objectives (i.e. the achievement of macroeconomic stability), which were pursued under other Bank
operations (SAC I and SAC II) and IMF programs (ESAFs) under implementation during the period.
Hence, the macroeconomic framework was not the subject of specific or direct conditionality under
FINSAC It, beyond a general stipulation in the Credit Agreement (as condition of tranche releases)
regarding "the consistency of the macroeconomic framework with the objectives of this program".
With hindsight, given the impact of macroeconomic instability on the financial sector, perhaps more
specific macroeconomic conditionality would have been appropriate
Achievement of Objectives (Part III)
5.    The complexity of the reform program, in particular that of the banking divestiture scheme,
resulted in some implementation delay, partly on account of the Government's deliberate and
systematic approach to program implementation. The delay notwithstanding, the specific program
objectives, by and large, were satisfactorily achieved (Appendix A: Policy Matrix):
(a)   Removal of remaining policy distortions in financial sector. The underlying
objectives were to reduce the intermediation cost of the banking system, and thereby
increase financial intermediation, and to achieve tax equality across sectors. These
were achieved through: (1) the payment since 1991 by BOG of market interest rates
on reserves (previously non-remunerated) deposited by banks; and (2) the gradual
lowering during 1992-1994 of the corporate tax on financial institutions from 50 to
35 per cent, the same level applicable to corporations in other sectors.
(b)   The Strengthening of the Central Bank. The revised Bank of Ghana Act of 1992
significantly enhanced its statutory autonomy, role and responsibilities. BOG's
financial condition was considerably improved with the transfer to the Government
of accumulated foreign exchange losses and the discontinuation of quasi-fiscal, non-
central banking activities (e.g., development finance, equity participations,
subsidized credits). BOG has carried out a major reorganization of its structure,
improved its operational capacity in most major areas, and installed a comprehensive
computerized system;
(c)    The Bank Restructuring and Divestiture Program. The bank restructuring program
started under FINSAC I was substantially completed under this operation. Six of the
seven restructured banks have begun since 1992 to operate profitably and in
compliance with prevailing prudential regulations (e.g., capital adequacy, liquidity).
The successful restructuring enabled the Government to initiate the first phase of the



banking divestiture program, covering the three largest state-owned banks (GCB,
SSB, NSCB), in fulfillment of a condition for third tranche release. SSB and NSCB
were merged in 1993 as a step prior to the subsequent privatization of the new SSB
in early 1997. The privatization of GCB, although not yet fully completed, is now in
its final stage. A foreign financial-cum-industrial group has entered into an
agreement for the acquisition of 40 percent of its share capital, which is to be
finalized pending the fulfillment of a number of specified actions, while 41 per cent
of GCB's shares are presently held by domestic private investors. SSB's shares have
been traded on the Ghana Stock Exchange since September 1995 while that of GCB
has been traded since May 1996. The second phase of divestiture, dealing with the
remaining 4 smaller state-owned banks (ADB, BHC, NIB, and Coop Bank),
accounting together for less than 3 per cent of system assets, is scheduled to start
shortly, beginning with a merger of ADB and Coop Bank.
(d)   Recovery of Assets. The Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust (NPART) was set-
up as a Government agency in 1989 with a 6-year statutory life and with the mandate
to recover as much as possible of the non-performing assets transferred from
distressed banks. An action program was formulated, which set for an "aggregate
recovery target" of 18 billion Cedis, based on a review of NPART's portfolio. By
the time NPART closed down on June 30, 1997, it had recovered 19.6 billion Cedis,
or about I0 per cent above the initial target, representing a satisfactory performance;
(e)   Development of Non-Bank Financial Institutions.  The Non-Bank Financial
Institutions Act promulgated in January 1993, provides an appropriate regulatory and
prudential framework for the operations of this category of financial intermediaries,
which previously had been largely unregulated. The extensive review preceding this
legislation also served as a basis for the preparation of a separate Bank project (Non-
Bank Financial Institutions Assistance Project, approved in 1996), currently under
implementation;
(f)    Upgrading professional skills. The National Banking College was established in
April 1994 and has since conducted a continuing series of banking courses. Other
professional entities and training institutions, including the Ghana Stock Exchange,
the Ghana Institute of Bankers, the Institute of Chartered Accountants and the
National Insurance Commission, have also provided continuing technical services
and training opportunities for the local business community on relevant professional
subjects, with technical assistance from FINSAC II.
Program Sustainability (Part IV)
6.    There are good prospects for sustaining the reforms of the FINSAC programs. As with
financial sector adjustment in other countries, bank restructuring is usually the component most
difficult to sustain in view of the inherent risk of restructured banks relapsing into distress, usually
on account of non-performing loans in their portfolios. In the case of Ghana and FINSAC, the
completion of the privatization of the three largest banks enhances the prospects for sustainability.
Other achievements include: the strengthening of the regulatory and prudential framework for
banking operations; the strengthened autonomy, financial condition and institutional capacity of



iv
BOG; the development, albeit at a slow pace, of the money market and capital market; and the
continuing effective operation of those entities forming part of the financial infrastructure (e.g., the
stock exchange, training institutions).
Bank and Borrower Performance (Parts V, VI)
7.    The performance of the Bank in preparing and supervising the credit was satisfactory.
Thanks to its extensive initial sector work, the Bank made major conceptual inputs into the
formulation of the reform programs and thereafter continued a meaningful policy dialogue with the
Government throughout program implementation. Notwithstanding some implementation delay,
which mainly reflected the Government's systematic and deliberate approach to banking divestiture,
the performance of the Borrower and of program implementation agencies, notably BOG, has been
satisfactory.
Assessment of Outcome (Part VII)
8.    The outcome of FINSAC II is satisfactory, especially with regard to specific, institutional
objectives. Those that have been achieved include bank restructuring and privatization, establishing
and enforcing an appropriate legal/regulatory framework for the financial sector (including both the
formal banking system and NBFIs), improved banking oversight, building up institutions forming
part of the financial infrastructure (e.g., GSE), strengthening the central bank, fostering the money
and capital market, and upgrading professional expertise. On the other hand, the broader objective
of financial deepening remains to be achieved. Significant increases in deposit mobilization and
credit expansion will be realized only with the improved performance of the real sector.
Future Operations (Part VIII)
9.    It will be important to continue monitoring the situation and performance of banking
institutions, in particular the condition of their loan portfolios. This will be undertaken by the
central bank, whose banking supervision capacity is now adequate and is expected to further
improve as it gains more practical experience over time. The monitoring of the broad performance
of the financial sector (e.g., savings mobilization, financial deepening) will be undertaken through
ongoing Bank macroeconomic operations (SACs), IMF programs and sector work. The continuation
of limited technical assistance, on a gradually diminishing scale, is advisable.
Lessons Learned (Part IX)
10.   Of the lessons drawn from this operation, the three key ones are:
* Financial Sector Adjustment Loans (FSALs) should be relied upon mainly to achieve
specific sectoral objectives (e.g., bank restructuring, bank privatization, regulatory and
prudential reforms; institutional capacity building). Broader macrofinancial objectives
(e.g., financial deepening; savings mobilization) would be more appropriately pursued
under Bank macroeconomic operations (SALs) and IMF programs (ESAFs). Hence, the
importance of ensuring the complementarity and coordination of these two types of
programs, in terms of design, monitoring and supervision;



v
* Meaningful progress in financial deepening and intermediation depends both on sector-
specific factors (e.g., efficiency of banking system) and on macroeconomic performance
(inflation rate; fiscal balance). In the best circumstances, progress is likely to be gradual
and incremental.
* In setting conditionalities (i.e., for tranche release) relating to privatizations, there is a
need for flexibility regarding timetables/deadlines, since actual completion depends on
factors (e.g., market condition) outside the Borrower's control. Rigid compliance with
pre-established timetables could lead to sub-optional privatizations, or otherwise
unnecessarily delay disbursement.






GHANA
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
- FINSAC II
(CR. 2318-GH)
PART I. INTRODUCTION
A.    Overview
1.    The Second Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC II) was a continuation of FINSAC
I, implemented during 1988-1991. The first credit, approved in FY 1988 for an amount of US$106.6
million equivalent, supported an initial sector adjustment program for addressing a near-crisis
situation in the financial sector, brought about by a severely distressed banking system. The
performance of FINSAC I was reviewed in Project Completion Report (PCR) No. 14158 dated
March 29, 1995. The second credit, FINSAC II, for US$100 million equivalent, was approved on
December 19, 1991, and closed on March 31, 1997. The two credits were cofinanced by the Swiss
Government and Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan. Both credits were the subject of
Performance Audit Report (PAR) No. 16789 dated June 25, 1997.
B.    Recent Economic Developments
2.     Ghana's political liberalization during 1992-96 has been accompanied by growing fiscal
difficulties and greater private sector interest. On the one hand, an across-the-board wage increase
of 80 per cent for civil servants in 1992 worsened the fiscal balance and increased inflationary
pressure. On the other hand, the liberal political atmosphere and vigorous Government efforts to
promote the private sector since the adoption of the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in 1983,
have enhanced investor interest, even if this is not yet reflected in actual private investment.
3.     Real GDP grew by 5.2 per cent in 1996, led by a good agricultural harvest (for the second
consecutive year) and a bumper cocoa crop. Domestic savings and private investment remained low,
in part due to falling public savings and rising public borrowing. Notwithstanding a fiscal slippage
in the second half of 1996, inflation, on a year-on-year basis, fell from 71 per cent in December 1995
to 33 per cent in December 1996 and to 29 per cent in May 1997. This was due in part to the
delayed effect of monetary and fiscal restraint in the first half of 1996, to low food prices, to
postponed adjustments in tariffs (petroleum and power), and to foreign exchange interventions
reducing the nominal depreciation of the cedi. On the external front, the current account deficit was
larger than expected, foreign exchange reserves lower than budgeted, and medium-term non-
concessional external borrowing higher than planned.
4.     On the fiscal front, the deficit worsened to 5.2 per cent of GDP in 1996 from 2.8 per cent in
1995. The bulk of the slippage was due to overruns in development expenditure, though shortfalls in
revenue from imports, petroleum and on-tax-sources also contributed. As a result, Government
borrowed domestically to service its higher interest bill, arising mainly from a high nominal interest
rate on accumulated and new domestic debt. This poor fiscal out-turn in 1996 came on top of
several years of fiscal imbalances rising interest obligations. On a year-on-year basis, inflation rose
from 13 per cent in end-1992 to 25 per cent, 34 per cent, and 71 per cent in 1993, 1994, and 1995,



2
respectively, while the Government's interest obligations climbed from 2.2 per cent of GDP in 1992
to 4.4 per cent of GDP in 1995.
C.    The Financial Sector
5.    The Ghanaian financial sector was in severe distress in 1985. This situation was a serious
constraint to economic growth which had begun to show promising signs of recovery under the ERP.
A major financial sector review was carried out in 1987, which identified a large number of sector
deficiencies. These included an insolvent banking system dominated by state-owned banks and
saddled with large non-performing loans and excessive intermediation costs; a low level of financial
intermediation reflecting a poor record in domestic resource mobilization; inefficient credit
allocation partly on account of Central Bank-directed interest rates and sectoral credit targets; the
virtual absence of a money market and capital market; and the weakness of the supervision of the
banking system by BOG and the overall inadequacies of the regulatory framework.
6.    Three commercial banks (Ghana Commercial Bank, Standard Chartered Bank of Ghana and
the Barclays Bank of Ghana) accounted for about two-thirds of the banking system's deposits and
assets. The Government-owned Ghana Commercial Bank alone controlled about one-half of the
banking system's assets and deposits. Both Standard Chartered and Barclays Bank operated under
the full control and management of their foreign shareholders, in spite of a minority shareholding by
the Government. There were also seven secondary banks (primarily sectoral development finance
institutions and a few smaller commercial banks), a small cooperative bank and over 100 rural
banks. All but one secondary commercial bank (Bank of Credit and Commerce) were partly or
wholly owned by the Government. Thus, the banking system was concentrated and oligopolistic.
The Bank of Ghana had oversight responsibility for the financial system but was hampered by its
lack of autonomy and institutional capacity. BOG played a significant role in financing government
expenditures.
7.    The above- diagnosis formed the basis for the adoption of a comprehensive Action Program
containing measures aimed at restructuring distressed banks, strengthening the regulatory and
supervisory framework, developing financial and capital markets, and more generally, liberalizing
the financial sector environment so as to improve the efficiency of resource mobilization and credit
allocation. That initial Action Program was supported by FINSAC I and was followed by an
enhanced sectoral reform program supported by FINSAC II.
PART II. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
8.    In 1991, as FINSAC I was nearing completion, the Government had made considerable
progress in putting the banking system and financial sector on a sound footing. It recognized,
however, that there still existed a substantial remaining agenda comprising several important tasks
that needed to be undertaken and/or completed. Under FINSAC II, the Government intended to
consolidate the achievements of the initial reform program and move towards the second phase of
sector adjustment with an enhanced program of policy and institutional reforms for further
deepening, diversifying and strengthening the financial sector. The objectives of FINSAC II were:
* support the removal of remaining policy distortions in the financial system by: (1)
addressing the disintermediation in the financial system caused by negative real interest
rates through a policy of encouraging positive real deposit and lending rates (this
included the payment of adequate interest on required commercial bank deposits with
BOG and promoting open market operations); (2) increasing competition in the banking



3
system through the divestiture of public sector shareholdings in banks; (3) reducing the
high cost of financial intermediation; and (4) lowering the rate of corporate tax on
financial institutions to the level applicable to other sectors.
* enhance the effectiveness of the Central Bank to lead the continuing financial sector
reform program by: (1) developing a sound legal framework for the financial system
including legislation for central banking; (2) strengthening the financial condition of
BOG and phasing out its non-central banking, quasi-fiscal activities; (3) realigning the
organizational structure of BOG to enhance its capacity to formulate and implement
monetary policies and financial sector reforms; and (4) improving operational efficiency
in the payments system, open market operations, reserves management, bank
supervision, research and other central banking activities through computerization and
changes in the operational procedures and staff training;
* continue the bank restructuring program started under FINSAC I through: (1)
preparation for the divestiture of public sector shareholdings in banks; (2) formulation of
an appropriate program for monitoring the performance of restructured banks; (3)
improving the efficiency of management, accounting and information systems in GCB;
* initiate a phased program for divestiture/privatization of state-owned banks following
their restructuring,
* pursue the collection of non-performing assets by the Non-Performing Assets Recovery
Trust (NPART), including setting monitorable targets and a timetable;
* enhance the effectiveness of non-bankfinancial institutions by strengthening prudential
regulation and encouraging competition. Steps would include: (1) reviewing the legal
and regulatory framework applicable to all non-bank financial institutions and develop
new legislative proposals for their regulation and supervision; (2) development of
uniform accounting requirements and prudential regulations; and (3) a review of the
linkages and prospects for closer interaction between the formal and informal financial
systems; and
* upgrade the professional skills of bankers, accountants and the insurance professionals
through training programs, improving the effectiveness of the National Banking College,
strengthening national accounting and auditing capabilities and upgrading the standards
and skills of the Auditor General's Office and of the accounting and insurance
professions.
9.    The strategy for financial sector development underlying the design of both FINSAC I and
FINSAC II was appropriate, and relevant to the sector's requirements at their different points in
time. The initial adjustment program supported by FINSAC I was basic, limited and rather modest,
aiming mainly at resolving a severe banking crisis, and providing a still rudimentary financial
system with an essential infrastructure for ensuring the soundness of banking operations. FINSAC
II, was more ambitious in its design. Apart from continuing and completing a number of ongoing
tasks (e.g., bank restructuring, recovery of non-performing assets, upgrading of professional skills),
it contained broader objectives for further deepening, diversifying and strengthening the financial
system. The sequencing (between the two successive operations) of some major tasks appeared
suitable. For instance, the restructuring of distressed banks was undertaken under FINSAC I as a
prior step to the subsequent attempt at their privatization under FINSAC II. Another example was
the initial focus, under the first credit, on the formal banking system, which was severely distressed



4
and required priority attention at the outset, leaving the less urgent task of developing non-bank
financial institutions to be addressed under the second program. The broadening of the scope of
FINSAC II, however, stopped short of macroeconomic objectives (i.e. the achievement of
macroeconomic stability), which were pursued under other Bank operations (SAC I and SAC II) and
IMF programs (ESAFs) under implementation during the period. Hence, the macroeconomic
framework was not the subject of specific or direct conditionality under FINSAC II, beyond a
general stipulation in the Credit Agreement (as condition of tranche releases) regarding "the
consistency of the macroeconomic framework with the objectives of this program". With hindsight,
given the impact of macroeconomic instability on the financial sector, perhaps more specific
macroeconomic conditionality would have been appropriate.
PART m. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
10.   The complexity of the reform program, in particular that of the banking divestiture scheme,
has resulted in some implementation delay, partly on account of the Government's deliberate and
systematic approach to program implementation. The delay notwithstanding, each of the specific
program objectives as listed in paragraph 8 above, by and large, has been satisfactorily achieved
(Policy Matrix, Appendix A).
Removal of Remaining Policy Distortions in Financial Sector
11.   By the end of FINSAC I's implementation, there had been some improvement in the cost of
financial intermnediation in Ghana on account of the removal of non-performing assets from the
distressed bank's balance sheets, the increased operational efficiency of the restructured banks, and
improvements in the payments system. Nevertheless, two remaining sector policy distortions
continued to negatively affect the financial intermediation cost, which the FINSAC II program
sought to remove:
(a)   Taxation of Banks. The corporate tax rate applicable to financial institutions was 50
per cent, compared to 35 per cent for other sectors, thus impacting negatively on the
profitability of banks and indirectly on their intermediation cost. As a condition of
tranche releases under FINSAC II, the Government during 1992-1994 successively
reduced the tax rate from 50 to 45 per cent, 40 and finally to 35 per cent, thus fully
aligning it with tax rates applicable to corporations in other sectors. Apart from
improving the intermediation cost, this measure also achieved taxation equality
across sectors;
(b)   Reserve Requirements. Until the early 1990s, the lack of remuneration on bank
reserves deposited with the central bank constituted an implicit tax on the banks, also
indirectly affecting their intermediation cost. Since 1991, under FINSAC II, BOG
has paid market interest rates on cash reserves (in excess of the reserve requirement,
currently set at 5 per cent), and adequate interest rates on secondary' reserve
requirements.
Strengthening of the Central Bank
12.   A revised Bank of Ghana Act, which adequately reflects BOG's autonomy, role and
responsibilities, was enacted in 1992, as a condition of effectiveness for FINSAC II. BOG phased
out its previous quasi-fiscal activities, such as development finance, subsidized lending, equity
participation in rural banks, and assumption of the exchange risk on behalf of the Government.



5
Accumulated foreign exchange losses on BOG's books were transferred to the Government in 1992,
which considerably strengthened its balance sheet.
13.   Under FINSAC II, BOG carried out a review of its organizational structure and has
implemented a more streamlined and functional structure. The new structure consolidates the
previous 19 departments into six functional departments. Suitable personnel were recruited to staff
some key positions in the new structure, along with changes in managerial arrangements and the
development of work plans for the new departments. A study on human resource needs and the
skills mix requirements for the senior levels of BOG has been carried out by outside consultants.
Annual training programs have been developed for 1993 and beyond. FINSAC II also provided
equipment, hardware and software for banking supervision, research, foreign exchange management,
accounting, human resource planning and training, general management and technical assistance for
a comprehensive computerized system.
Bank Restructuring
14.   Under FINSAC I and II, the approach to bank restructuring was systematic and
comprehensive, rather than piecemeal and case-by-case. A "general framework" was formulated to
provide broad guidelines for the bank restructuring program, including the organizational and
financial modalities (e.g., treatment of non-perforning assets; cleaning up of balance sheets). The
framework established a one-time financial package of measures for each of the seven distressed
banks, tailored to their individual requirements, to restore solvency and adequate liquidity to enable
them to operate in a sustained manner following their restructuring. Financial restructuring was
undertaken in parallel with organizational and managerial changes, and consisted of removing from
the bank's portfolios all non-performing loans. Those made to state enterprises or guaranteed by the
Government were offset against Government claims (e.g., deposits) or converted into Government
liabilities; those made to the private sector were redeemed against interest-bearing Government
bonds (called FINSAP bonds) following a process of verification/validation. Non-performing loans
were transferred to the Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust (NPART), for recovery to the extent
possible. Individual restructuring plans for six of the seven banks, based on the general framework
and following their review by the Bank, were implemented generally successfully during the 1988-
1991 period. As a group, these six banks are now operating profitably (albeit partly on account of
high-yeild Treasury Bills) and on a sound footing, having improved both the quality of their loan
portfolios and their operational efficiency. On the basis of audits done by international accounting
firms, and annual inspections by BOG, these six banks have been operating in compliance with all
major prudential requirements, (e.g., capital adequacy, liquidity, risk exposure) in recent years
(Appendix C). A comparative survey indicated that by 1995, the collective operational performance
of the six state-owned restructured banks as a group was similar to that of private sector banks, as
measured by standard performance indicators (e.g., operating expenses, loan loss provisions,
intermediation cost, return on equity). The only remaining distressed bank is the small Coop Bank,
which has not been included in the Government's bank restructuring program, but is scheduled for
merger with ADB, as a step prior to the latter's privatization.
Bank Divestiture
15.   The privatization of banks was not an objective of FINSAC I. Both the Government and the
Bank agreed to first proceed with the restructuring of distressed banks as a pre-requisite for their
subsequent privatization. Towards the completion of FINSAC I, the Government decided it was
timely to address this remaining major sectoral issue under FINSAC II. It considered private sector
ownership of the banking system to be consistent with the liberalization of the Ghanaian financial



6
sector, and conducive to greater intra-system competition, and thus, to improving operational
efficiency and lowering intermediation cost. As with bank restructuring, the approach to bank
divestiture was quite systematic and comprehensive. In 1992 a review, aimed at designing a specific
proposal for implementing the divestiture program was undertaken by specialized consultants. The
review spelled out the methodology, and technical, marketing and financial modalities for
divestiture, e.g., phasing, rationalization/mergers, valuation of net worth of banks, respective roles of
private placement and public floatation, and other marketing considerations.
16.   The banking divestiture program adopted by the Government in 1993 in consultation with
the Bank, and based on the above-mentioned consultant review, envisaged a two-phase process, with
the first phase covering the three largest banks (GCB, SSB, NSCB), which together accounted for
almost two-thirds of banking system assets at the time. The second phase would deal with the
remaining four smaller banks. The method chosen for divestiture in the first phase was a two-
pronged one, consisting of both (i) an initial public offering (IPO) on the Ghana Stock Exchange
aimed at domestic private shareholders; and (ii) a private placement with a "strategic investor",
preferably a foreign financial or banking institution with a potential for contribution in managerial
and/or banking expertise.
17.   To date, the first phase of the banking divestiture program has been substantially and
successfully completed. SSB and NSCB were merged (into the new SSB) in 1993 as a step prior to
the subsequent privatization of the new bank. The privatization of the new SSB was fully completed
in early 1997, with a foreign consortium (comprising reputable banking and financial institutions
from Europe and the U.S.) acquiring 53 per cent of its share capital, and the balance held by private
domestic shareholders, both institutional and individual. SSB's shares are currently traded on the
Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE), and the bank is operating profitably, poised for further expansion.
SSB has restructured its Board and management to reflect its private sector ownership. The
privatization of the largest bank, GCB, is in process. An international industrial-cum-financial group
entered into an agreement in November 1996 for the acquisition of 40 per cent of GCB's share
capital. This agreement will become definitive upon fulfillment of some specified conditions,
including approval by the Government of a proposal by the strategic investor for the management of
GCB. While the process for finalizing the privatization of GCB has been somewhat slow, partly on
account of the Government's thorough approach, it can now be considered irreversible. In the
meantime, domestic private investors have acquired 41 per cent of GCB's shares on the stock
market, thus raising its prospective private sector ownership to 81 per cent.
18.   Counting GCB as private in anticipation of the expected finalization of its divestiture, the
only banks still remaining under state ownership and control would be the four small banks (ADB,
BHC, NIB, Coop Bank). These four banks, representing together less than 3 per cent of the banking
system assets, are included in the second phase of divestiture, which is getting underway. In light of
the recent success of SSB's and GCB's public floatations, the remaining banks (BHC, NIB, ADB
after absorbing Coop Bank) are likely to be able to attract domestic private investors, although the
search for a suitable strategic investor (a foreign bank), if attempted, is likely to be arduous and
time-consuming. The divestiture of NIB which was put on a fast track alongside those of SSB Ltd.
and GCB Ltd., proceeded well initially. Five potential Strategic Investors (SI) showed interest. The
favored SI, however, withdrew from negotiations at a critical last stage. The process which had to
be started all over, has since gathered momentum with several new indications of interest.



7
Recovery of Non-Performing Assets
19.   The 1988 law establishing NPART stipulated that it should carry out its mandate within a
finite 6-year timeframe, i.e., by end-1995. To facilitate NPART's collection efforts and expedite the
process, a special judicial body (the NPART Tribunal) was established in parallel with NPART. To
provide guidance, including a timetable and monitorable targets, for NPART's activities, the
Government formulated an action program, agreed with the Bank, which envisaged an "aggregate
recovery target" of 18 billion Cedis, based on a review of NPART's portfolio totaling 50 billion
Cedis. The aggregate target was sub-divided into 6 annual targets (12 per cent in 1991, 22 per cent in
1992, 26 per cent in 1993, 23 per cent in 1994 and 17 per cent in 1995). On account of some
slackening in the pace of recovery by 1995, and to enable NPART to wind up its residual operations,
NPART's mandate was extended by 18 months, to June 30, 1997. By that date, NPART had
collected a total amount of 19.61 billion Cedis, or about 10 per cent above the initial target,
representing a satisfactory performance.1 A due diligence has been carried out by independent
consultants to determine, inter alia, the modalities for disposal (i.e., auction) of residual recoverable
assets amounting to some 4 billion Cedis. An audit of NPART's accounts has also been undertaken
by independent auditors.
Development of Non-Bank Financial Institutions
20.   At FINSAC II's inception, there were a significant number of financial institutions in Ghana
which were not regulated by the Banking Law though some of them came under other regulatory or
statutory control. These comprised the stock exchange, insurance companies, insurance brokers and
agents, the discount houses, a building society, an export finance company plus a number of credit
unions, thrifts and savings and loan associations. Regulation of the insurance industry had been
shifted to the National Insurance Commission (NIC), which required technical assistance in its new
supervisory role, which includes market supervision, monitoring premium levels and payment,
competition and solvency. Capital adequacy, solvency and credit standards were all in need of
appropriate regulation. Competition had been circumscribed by the Government which, under a
1972 law, still required the government-owned State Insurance Corporation of Ghana to be allocated
all Government and state-run business, resulting in over 75 per cent of the non-life business going to
one company. The life insurance sector was under-developed and its nurturing, because of the
actuarial significance of its premium base, was considered an important factor in the development of
the capital markets. As a condition of second tranche release, the Government initiated in 1992 a
review of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to all non-bank financial institutions. The
review led to the preparation of draft legislation which contains appropriate provisions for the
licensing, regulation and supervision of non-bank financial institutions, as well as appropriate
accounting, financial and prudential reporting requirements. The Act was promulgated in January
1993, in compliance with a condition of second tranche release. The new NBFI regulatory
framework has laid the foundation for the further development of the capital markets, which,
however, would not achieve faster growth until the achievement of stable and moderate inflation.
21.   The NBFI sector remains dominated by a single institution, the Social Security and National
Investment Trust (SSNIT), which was set up in 1972 to manage the country's social security system
covering every worker both in the private sector and the civil service. SSNIT's assets are equivalent
to about 20 per cent of those of the banking system (1994). Until 1990, SSNIT's investment
activities were constrained by inappropriate Government policies, such as the requirement to invest
The total includes a small portion of recoveries of the Cooperative Bank non-performing assets which were not
included in the original target of 18 billion cedis.



8
its assets mainly in Government bonds or stocks with low or negative returns. In view of the
magnitude of SSNIT, and its potential role in mobilizing long-term investment capital, a study was
undertaken under FINSAC II in 1993, which generally ascertained the soundness of its financial
condition, and made a number of recommendations for further improvements (e.g., in investment
portfolio management), which have been adopted by SSNIT.
Upgrading Professional Skills
22.   The extensive training programs for bankers, accountants and insurance professionals,
started under FINSAC I, were continued under FINSAC II.- The National Banking College was
established in April 1994 as a corporate entity, and has conducted a series of banking courses
starting in July 1994. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ghana (ICAG) has been providing
advisory and technical information and services to its membership in the field of accounting,
including professional examinations. The Ghana Stock Exchange has organized periodic seminars
and workshops for the local business community on relevant professional subjects, as has the
National Insurance Commission for insurance companies.
PART IV. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
23.   There are good prospects for sustaining the results of the reforms and actions under the
FINSAC credits. Amongst these actions, the one with the highest risk of non-sustainability would
appear to be the bank restructuring program, on account of the inherent possibility of restructured
banks relapsing into distress (usually on account of the re-emergence of non-performing loans), as
has been observed in many other countries. For GCB, SSB and NSCB in particular, their
privatizations, coupled with vigilant supervision by the central bank, should enhance sustainability.
The successful restructuring of the three state-owned banks is expected to take hold or even to
solidify, as evidenced by their continuing improvements in recent years. However, high treasury bill
yields have undoubtedly facilitated the financial restructuring of these banks by contributing to high
profits. Ultimately, the banks' sustainability will depend on their ability to maintain the quality of
their loan portfolios.  In addition, their medium-term prospects will largely depend on the
performance of their borrowers, namely real sector enterprises including SMEs, in particular their
capacity for withstanding current and projected levels of interest rates and exchange rates.
24.   Other achievements which enhance the sustainability of the reforms include the
strengthening of the central bank and improved banking oversight; the shift of the banking system
from predominantly public to private sector ownership; the broadening of the banking system with
the entry of several new, private, banks including some non-traditional banks (e.g. merchant banks,
mortgage banks), which should result in increased intra-system competition; the establishment of
NBFIs following the enactment of the new regulatory framework; the creation of an essential
financial infrastructure (e.g, the stock exchange, the national insurance commission); and the build-
up of professional skills through training and the establishment of training entities (e.g., the National
Banking College).
PART V. BANK PERFORMANCE
25.   The Bank's performance in the preparation and supervision of FINSAC II was satisfactory.
The extensive financial sector review preceding the preparation of the initial operation led to a
meaningful policy dialogue with Government officials, which continued through the implementation
of the two successive credits, and provided major conceptual inputs into the two Statements of
Financial Policy which formed the basis for the reforms undertaken. The Bank's performance during



9
program implementation was satisfactory. The policy dialogue continued during implementation of
FINSAC II as part of supervision work, particularly in connection with the fulfillment of second and
third tranche releases. Supervisi6n work for this credit has been intensive, amounting to 185 staff
weeks for the period from FY 1992 through closing on March 31,1997. This worked out to a
supervision coefficient of about 30 staff weeks per year, which reflects recognition of the
complexity, and commensurate supervision requirements, of the program. However, more attention
could have been placed during supervision on the macroeconomic environment and its impact on
financial sector reforms.
PART VI. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.   The performance of the Government and of program implementation agencies, notably that
of Bank of Ghana, was satisfactory. The implementation delay, which required a two-year extension
of the closing date to March 31, 1997, was attributable partly to an under-estimation, by both the
Government and the Bank, of the time-consuming nature of the complex banking divestiture
program, which constituted a spccific condition for third tranche release. This delay also reflected
the Government's systematic approach to the privatization of banks, rather than responding to
timetable pressure, and appears justified in light of results. In view of the multiplicity of program
components, coordination of the various implementation entities was essential, and was adequately
undertaken by the FINSAP Secretariat, established for that purpose, with logistical support under the
credit. Admittedly, the weak macroeconomic performance during FINSAC II's implementation
period could suggest less than satisfactory borrower performance. However, as noted above,
specific macroeconomic conditionality was not a feature of FINSAC II.
PART VII. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
27.   The credit's outcome is satisfactory. Despite some delays, virtually all the components of
the two credits were effectively implemented, resulting in a significant change in Ghana's financial
system compared to its situation at program outset. Financial sector policies have been liberalized
and modernized with the removal of interest rate controls, credit ceilings and sectoral targets. An
appropriate legal, regulatory and prudential framework has been established, providing a sound basis
for banking operations. BOG, the central bank, has significantly strengthened its financial condition,
institutional autonomy and operational capacity, notably in the area of banking supervision (although
more time is required for banking supervision to acquire the practical experience required to be fully
effective).
28.   The banking system has gradually expanded to now include 18 banks (as of mid-1997), not
including 7 other institutions in the process of establishment or awaiting their banking license. There
is no formal or statutory distinction in the Banking Law between categories of banking (i.e.,
commercial, development, merchant banking), and all deposit-taking banks are subject to the same
prudential regulations, and the supervisory responsibility of BOG. In practice, most banks are
engaged in a broad spectrum of banking operations, as universal banks. Some newly-established
banks have a distinct investment/merchant banking avocation and seek to specialize to some extent
in corporate banking, venture capital, underwriting, etc.
29.   Total assets of the banking system expanded by 31.7 per cent in 1995 and 34.5 per cent in
1996 (to 2,649 billion Cedis), roughly in line with inflation. Credit by the banking system to the
private sector, after growing slowly until 1994, increased sharply by 50 per cent in 1995 to 393
billion Cedis, and further by 70 per cent in 1996 to 681 billion Cedis. As a result of this expansion,
and the entry of new banks, the previously heavy concentration has been significantly reduced, with



10
the largest bank (GCB) now accounting for 26.6 percent of total system assets, compared to 50 per
cent in the late 1980s. The ownership of banks, previously predominantly public, has become
virtually wholly private as a result of divestiture. Counting GCB (whose privatization to date is
partial and in the process of completion) as private, alongside SSB/NSCB (whose privatization is
completed),-the four small remaining state-owned banks (ADB, BHC, NIB, Coop Bank) represent
less than 3 per cent of total system assets. The banking system has become much more open to
competition through private sector ownership, the recent entry of new banking institutions including
some non-traditional banks, and the emergence of non-bank financial intermediaries.
30.   The enactment of the NBFI Law of 1993 has been followed by some diversification and
expansion of the non-bank financial sector, which however remains small, contributing about 24 per
cent of the country's total financial assets. Of this, about 11 per cent is from the state-owned Social
Security and National Insurance Trust (SSNIT) and 4 per cent from the stock exchange. The Ghana
Stock Exchange (GSE) has built up a requisite organizational structure and capacity, although its
activities remain limited, with only 20 companies listed. Notwithstanding the still modest scale of
its operations, GSE is perforning an essential function in developing the nascent capital market, and
specifically in providing a vehicle for the divestiture of public sector shareholdings in banks (GCB,
SSB/NSCB) and other state enterprises. The insurance industry remains dominated by two state-
owned corporations, but has seen the entry of 16 privately-owned companies. Other NBFIs include
building societies, unit trusts, one venture capital company, two discount houses, and three leasing
companies (as of 1996). The NBFI Law subjects non-bank financial institutions to the oversight of
BOG, just as commercial banks, but under a separate set of regulatory and prudential requirements.
31.   While the two FINSAC programs have satisfactorily achieved most of their specific
institutional objectives, their broad impact on the financial sector has been limited. Financial
intermediation performance has been mixed (Appendix B). Financial deepening, as reflected in the
M2/GDP ratio, has remained flat throughout the 1988-1996 period, actually declining from 19.5 per
cent in 1994 to 17.2 per cent in 1996. Currency held outside the banking system remains high and
has even increased recently, to about 70 per cent in 1995, as a ratio to deposits. Credit to the private
sector by the banking system, after stagnating during the 1988-1994 period, expanded rapidly in
1995 and further in 1996, by 69 per cent (or 23 per cent in real terms), to 732 billion Cedis, which
however still represents a low ratio of about 10 per cent of GDP. The foregoing reflects a low level
of financial intermediation, even in relation to other developing countries in sub-Saharan Africa and
elsewhere. This modest performance in financial intermediation has taken place in spite of the
financial liberalization measures undertaken under FINSAC I and II. The macroeconomic and other
factors accounting for such a situation appear to warrant an in-depth analysis. There is some
evidence that actual savings and investments in Ghana are higher than are captured in national
accounts. Also, financial intermediation and savings mobilization by the informal financial system
do not appear to be reflected in monetary statistics. The achievement of more significant and faster
progress in financial intermediation in Ghana in the years ahead is likely to depend on the success of
macroeconomic management (notably the maintenance of stable and moderate inflation) and other
factors outside the financial sector (e.g. the performance of the real sectors), as much as on the
banking system itself. With respect to the Ghanaian banking system, its capacity for increasing its
contributions to financial intermediation is expected to continue to improve. Realistically, however,
any future gains in financial intermediation deriving from an improved banking system, are likely to
be gradual and incremental, in Ghana as elsewhere. Furthermore, banking prudence dictates that a
banking system that is undergoing restructuring, or that has barely completed the process (as is the
case of Ghana), should not be expected nor encouraged to aggressively expand its activities, since
this might jeopardize the outcome of successful restructuring. Such a banking system should rather



11
focus on consolidation (or even retrenchment) and internal strengthening for a period of time, during
which its capacity for meaningfully increasing financial intermediation is necessarily limited.
PART VIII. FUTURE OPERATIONS
32.   The banking system is now operating on a much sounder financial footing following the
restructuring of distressed banks, and largely under private sector management. It will be important
to continue monitoring closely the condition and performance of banking institutions (in particular,
their loan portfolios) so as to be alert to any possible deterioration. This task is expected to be led by
BOG. Limited technical assistance will continue to be required for: BOG, for further improving its
bank supervision, monetary policy management, and financial markets expertise; the National
Banking College, the Ghana Institute of Bankers, and the Institute of Chartered Accountants, and for
further institutional capacity building. The ongoing NBFI Technical Assistance Project provides a
suitable vehicle for continuing technical support to and monitoring the situation of non-bank
financial institutions, including the stock exchange, insurance companies and other non-bank
intermediaries.
33.   In the context of economic and sector work, it would be desirable for the Bank to carry out
'jointly with Ghanaian authorities) in-depth studies covering: (a) the operational efficiency of the
banking system, as measured by standard performance indicators (e.g., intermediation costs,
employee productivity per asset), to be periodically updated; (b) the scope and prospects for
increasing financial deepening and savings mobilization; and (c) the need and/or desirability of
establishing specialized banking institutions oriented to poverty alleviation (which is not, and should
not be, the normal objective of commercial banks).
34.   Ultimately, the prospects of the Ghanaian banking system will largely depend on those of
enterprises in the real sectors, who borrow from the banks. A review of the financial condition and
prospects of corporate enterprises including SMEs (especially in relation to current and projected
levels of interest rates and exchange rates), would therefore help a better assessment of the medium-
term prospects of the banking system.
PART IX. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
35.   The main lessons from FINSAC implementation include:
*  Financial Sector Adjustment Loans (FSALs) should be relied upon mainly to achieve
specific, institutional and regulatory objectives, such as bank restructuring and
privatization, fnancial infiastructure and prudential reforms. However, while broader
macrofmancial objectives (financial deepening; savings mobilization) are more
appropriately pursued under other Bank/lMF macroeconomic programs (SALs, ESAFs),
they should not be ignored in free standing FSALs. This points to the need to closely
link/coordinate these sectoral and macroeconomic programs (in terms of program design,
and supervision), so as to obtain optimal results. The incorporation of a financial sector
adjustment component within a SAL (as is done in some countries) appears to facilitate
the coordination between macroeconomic and specific financial sector issues;
*  Macroeconomic stability is difficult to achieve in the absence of a sound banking system
and an adequate financial infrastructure. Therefore, financial sector reforms, especially
bank restructuring, should not be postponed pending the achievement of macroeconomic
stability, but should be attempted as early as necessary. Experience worldwide also



12
indicates that delays in resolving banking distress always results in increasing its fiscal
costs;
*  In most circumstances, successful and sustainable financial sector adjustment is likely to
require more than a one-shot operation, but rather a series (of two or more) over time.
Even once the need for resource transfer (from Bank to country, for recapitalizing
insolvent banks, etc.) has been met, the need for selective institutional support and
technical assistance is likely to continue.
*  Meaningful progress in financial deepening and intermediation depends both on sector-
specific factors (e.g., efficiency of banking system) and macroeconomic performance
(inflation rate; fiscal balance). In the best circumstances, progress is likely to be gradual
and incremental;
*  A banking system just completing its successful restructuring (as in Ghana) should be
expected to undergo an adequate period of consolidation and internal strengthening,
before gradually expanding its activities and seeking meaningful contributions to
financial deepening. To do otherwise may jeopardize the outcome of restructuring.
-  The ultimate objective of restructuring distressed state-owned banks should normally be
their subsequent privatization. The sustainability of restructured banks is not evident
until completion of their privatization.
-  In setting conditionalities (i.e., for tranche release) relating to the privatization of state
banks (and other state enterprises), there is a need for flexibility regarding the timetable
and/or deadlines, since actual completion depends on factors (e.g., market conditions)
outside the Borrower's control. Rigid compliance with a pre-established timetable could
lead  to  sub-optimal privatizations.   While  speed  is a consideration, in  some
circumstances, the Borrower's "best efforts" may provide an appropriate basis for
determining compliance; and
-  It may be operationally useful for the Bank to undertake a cross-country comparative
review of the relative effectiveness (as measured by amounts recovered in relation to
assets) of the alternative modalities for recovering the non-performing assets of
distressed or failed banks.



GHANA
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
- FINSAC II
(CREDIT 2318-GH)
TABLE 1: Summary of Assessments
.    -. .'  t   i    t   '   a:o  tt              :   S   :    1~~~~~~~~2  -
Macroeconomic policies              .                                _      _
Sector policies                         if
Financial objectives                    i
Institutional development               i      _
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction
Gender concerns                                                                               i
Other social objectives                                                                       i
Environmental objectives                                                                      a/
Public sector management                                  if
Private sector development                                if
Other (specify)
Identification                                            i
Preparation assistance                                    if
Appraisal                                                 i            _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Supervision                                               if_ _ _ _ _ _ _                _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __    . : i . i . vSa t- i sf f r       __. . ......:
Preparation                                               .f
Implementation                           .
Covenant Compliance              _
Operation                                                 i
...sS4rbPourcoMi~    ....iIy~    ~ ti&faetry                        ..... _  nt-    . .- -
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ s a t ct r_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _          f                           _   _ _ _  _ _



GHANA
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
- FINSAC II
(CREDIT 2318-GH)
TABLE 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
1.    First Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I)
Cr. 1777-GH; FY 1988
2.    First Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC I)
Cr. 1911-GH; FY 1990
3.    Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II)
Cr. 2005-GH; FY 1990
4.    Private Enterprise and Export Development Project
Cr. 2502-GH; FY 1993
5.    Non-Bank Financial Institutions Assistance Project
Cr. 2792-GH; FY 1996



GHANA
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
- FINSAC II
(CREDIT 2318-GH)
TABLE 3: Project Timetable
.s    .
Identification                                       1990                          1990
Preparation                                     1990-1991                    1990-1991
Appraisal                                         07/1991                       07/1991
Negotiations                                      11/1991                       11/1991
Board Presentation                                12/1991                    12/19/1991
Signing                                           02/1992                    02/07/1992
Effectiveness                                     04/1992                    05/14/1992
Project Completion                              1995-1996                          1997
Loan Closing                                   03/31/1995                    03/31/1997



GHANA
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
- FINSAC II
(CREDIT 2318-GH)
TABLE 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~5"," .1.I....g.:....................
W-1     I                                 10
FY 1992                   25.00                   19.12                   76.50
FY 1993                   81.92                   27.41                   33.40
FY 1994                   81.92                   59.09                   72.10
FY 1995                   99.91                   62.61                   62.60
XFY 1996                   99.91                  66.39                   66.40
FY 1997                   99.91                   96.34                   96.40



GHANA
SECOND FINANCLAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
- FINSAC H
(CREDIT 2318-GH)
TABLE 5: Studies Included in Project
Review of regulatory and incentive  Completed    Became the basis for the IDA-funded
environment for NBFIs                             NBFI Project.
Review of insurance industry        Completed    Policies and recommendations were
incorporated in IDA-funded NBFI
ProjeeL
Study of Social Security and National    Completed    Recommendations for resruc
Investment Trust                                  SSNIT were adopted.
Study on informal financial markets  Completed    Impact is too soon to be determined.
The study's findings are under
discussion in a microfinance forum.
Proposal for divestiture of public  Completed    Shares of GCB and SSB were
sector share-holding in banks.                    floated on GSE.



GHANA
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
- FINSAC HI
(CREDIT 2318-GB)
TABLE 6: Status of Legl Covenants
3.01(b)     GOG to furnish progress   Mgmt. OK          ongoing       ongoing
reports at Bank's request.
3.03(aXi)   Implementation of         Mgmt. OK          Second
technical assistance                       Tranche
program for BOG
3.03(aXii)   Establishment of FINSAC   Mgmt. OK         Effectivenes
Implementation Secretariat
3.03(aXiii)  Provision of technical   Mgmt. OK          Second and
assistance to Auditor                      Third
General's Office, ICAG,                    Tranche
National Insurance                         Releases
Commission, Ghana
Institute of Bankers, GSE,
l_______  National Banking College
3.03(aXiv)  Provision of technical    Mgmt. OK          Second and
assistance for GCB                         Third
computerization, the                       Tranche
NPART, and restructured                     Releases
banks.
3.03(aXv)   Carrying out studies of   Policy  OK        Second and
insurance industry,                        Third
SSNIT, informal financial                  Tranche
sector, non-bank financial                 Releases
institutions.
3.03(b)     GOG to provide program    Mgmt. OK          Ongoing
implementation agencies
with adequate facilities;
and to recruit/select
consultants in accordance
with World Bank
guidelines
3.04(a)     GOG to maintain and       Mgmt. OK          Ongoing
furnish the Bank
information on various
records, accounts and
audits
3.05(a) and  GOG to furnish to Bank    Mgmt. OK         Ongoing
(b)         audited financial
statements of BOG, and
others as requested.



GHANA
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
- FINSAC H
(CREDIT 2318-GH)
TABLE 7: Bank Ruources
Through Appraisal        ___ ____ _______                              15.5     ___
Apprasi - Board                                                       108.5
Board-Effecwivensss                                                    10.8
Supervision                 134.1      _        135.4        -        144.0       475.8
Com pldtion              ________   ________   ________   ________      6.0
TOTAL                       134.1               135.4                 274.0       475.8



GHANA
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
- FINSAC H
(CREDIT 2318-GH)
TABLE 8: Bank Resources
Missious
Through Appraisal
Appraisd - Bord
Bwrd - Effectiveness
Supervision
July I1, 1992    4          8.8      fincial sectorspecialist/
banking
Nov. 19,1993      3          10.0    fincial sector spec./public   Satisactory        Satisfactory
adminisrion
July 9, 1994    3          0.3      audit/finmcial economics      S                  atsctory
Nov. 18, 1994     3          1.1      banking/project management   Satisfctory        Satisfatory
May 5,1995       2         2.2      fiancial economics/project    Satisfctory       Satisfactory
management
Dec. 15,1995      1          3.0     financial sector specialist   Satisfactory      Satisfactory
May 28, 1996      1          5.3     financial sector specialist   Satisfactory      Satisfactory
Completion                   Sept. 1997                                                      Credit cmed
TOTAL           I                          _         _



APPzNDIX A
PAGE 1 OF 3
GHANA
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
- FINSAC II
(CREDIT 2318-GB)
POLICY MATRIX
A. Meaures to remove policy ditortlow I the
finmeal system.
1. Reduce the implicit taxation of banks by  1. Since 1991, BOG started paying market interest
remunerating required reserves at a rate of interest  rates on cash reserves deposited by banks, and
closer to the average cost of deposits of the  adequate interest rates on secondary reserves.
banking system, in the context of the overall  Rates are subject to joint review with Bank for
liquidity management policies.              adjustment as necessary.
2. Lower the high cost of financial intermediation  2. Corporate income tax rates on financial
through lowering corporate tax rates for financial  institutions were gradually lowered during 1992-
institutions to levels applicable to other sectors.    1994 from 50 to 35 per cent, and are now at same
level as applicable to other sectors.
3. A project for the phased divestiture of public    3. A two-phase divestiture program was agreed
sector ownership of banks, to promote competition  with the Bank. The first    covering the three
through increased private sector ownership.  largest banks (GCB, SSB, NSCB) commenced in
1993 (second tranche release condition) and was
substantially completed by late 1996 (third tranche
release condition). SSB and NSCB were merged in
1993 (into new SSB) in preparation for
privatization. SSB underwent successful IPO on
GSE in September 1995, followed by a private
placement with a foreign strategic investor in late
1996, thus completing its privatization. GCB has
divested 41% of its share capital to domestic
private investors, and has entered into an
agreement in late 1996 for a private placement of
40% of its share capital with a foreign strategic
investor. This contract is awaiting finalization.
The second phase covering the remaining four
small banks (ADB, BHC, NIB, Coop Bank),
intended to start after completion of the first phase,
is underway.



ApPzNDiX A
PAGE 2 OF 3
B.Enhance the financial condition and
operational effectiveneu of the BOG.
1. Develop a sound legal system for the financial   1. The Bank of Ghana Act was enacted in 1992.
system.
2. Strengthen the financial condition of BOG by    2. Prior to second tranche release, BOG phased out
removing revaluation losses and non-central  its previous quasi-fiscal activities, such as
banking activities.                        development finance, subsidized lending, equity
participation in rural bank sand assumption of the
exchange risk on behalf of the Government.
3. Institutional strengthening by realigning BOG's  3. As a condition of second tranche release, the
organizational structure to enhance its capacity.    BOG implemented its new organizational and
management structure. The new structure
consolidated 19 departments into 6, and several
other tasks aimed at enhancing institutional
effectiveness were undertaken.
4. Improve operational efficiency through  As condition of third tranche release, work was
computerization, changes in operating procedures,  substantially completed on the development of
training to upgrade staff skills and technical  computerization project for BOG and annual
assistance.                               training projects had been developed for 1993 and
beyond. Appropriate technical assistance has also
continued under FINSAC II for the implementation
of BOG's institutional strengthening project.
C. Bank Restructuring and Loan Recovery by
NPART.
1. Commence liquidation of non-viable enterprises  1. Before negotiations, the Government, in
in accordance with NPART's action project.  consultation with the Bank, developed an action
program for the recovery of non-performing assets
and for liquidations, including agreed annual
recovery targets. In fulfillment of second and third
tranche release conditions, NPART's recoveries
have been satisfactory, aggregating 19.6 billion
Cedis (by march 31, 1997), compared to an initial
target of 18 billion Cedis.
2. Consolidate, deepen and streamline the ongoing  2. Before negotiations, the Govemment agreed to
bank restructuring project started under FINSAC I. establish a project, including performance
indicators, for monitoring the performance of
banks. This monitoring has since been carried out
by BOG as part of bank supervision/inspections.
For the release of the second tranche, the
Government agreed that the BOG would comply
with the requirement of annual inspection of banks
in accordance with the Banking Law. Since 1993,
annual on-site inspections were carried out for all
banks operating in Ghana (commercial,
development and merchant banks).



APPENDIX A
PAGE 3 OF 3
D. Enhance the effectiveness of non-bank
financial institutions.
1. Strengthen the legal/regulatory framework,  1. In 1992, the Government initiated a review of
prudential regulation, and the supervision of non-   the legal and regulatory framework for non-bank
bank financial institutions.                financial institutions. The review led to the
preparation of draft legislation incorporating IDA's
comments. The Act was approved by the PNDC
and signed in 1993.
2. Improve competition in the insurance industry.  2. For the release of the second tranche, it was
agreed that SSNIT would commence the review of
its asset/liability position and the actuarial
assessment of its pension scheme as well as its role
in the capital market. Consultants were appointed
to complete the study under terms of reference
agreed with IDA and the review was completed in
1993.
E. Develop capacity in the banking and
accountancy professions at all levels.
1. Upgrade the professional skills of bankers  1. The National Banking College was established
through the continuation of training projects, and   in 1994 as a condition of third tranche release, and
the development of the national banking college.   has since continued its activities. Progress has
been achieved in the development and
implementation of training for bankers, accountants
and insurance professionals.
2. Strengthen national accounting and auditing  2. Despite technical assistance, work with the
capabilities and held upgrade the standards and  ICAG and the Auditor General's Office has
skills of the Auditor General's Office.     progressed more slowly than expected.
F. Informal Sector
1. Study the informal financial markets to  1. This study was dropped from the project as
investigate prospects for closer interaction between  informal finance was included in a broader World
the formal and informal financial systems.  Bank study (Ghana - Financial Sector Review,
Report No. 13423-GH, December 1994) which was
discussed with the Government.
G. Adnministration/Implementation
1. Establish the Project Implementation Unit as a   1. The FINSAP Implementation Secretariat was
focal point to provide guidance, oversight,  established prior to Board approval and it has been
coordination and monitoring for all FINSAC  fulfilling its functions.
related activities.                        I_I



I



APPENDIX B
GHANA
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
- FINSAC II
(CREDIT 2313-GB)
SELECTED MACROECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS 1
iational accounts
as % GDP current market prices)
;ross domestic product              100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0 100.0  100.0
rotal Consumption                   92.7    98.7  102.2   95.0    90.1    91.8   92.1    89.8  87.9  87A
iross domestic fixed investment      15.9    12.8  14.8    16.9    18.6    18.7   17.5    19.0  20.0  21.0
- Government investment              8.3    10.3  11.7    14.0    14.7    14.6   11.0    1 1.8  10.2  10.2
- Private Investment                 7.6     2.5   3.1      2.9     3.9      4.1    6.5      7.2   9.8  10.8
.xports (GNFS)                       17.0    17.2  21.3    26.7    25.6    27.2   24.6    26.9  28.1  28.6
mports (GNFS)                       25.5    28.8  38A       38.6    34.2    37.8   34.2    35.7  36.0  37.0
;ross domestic savings                7.3     1.3  -2.2      5.0     9.9      8.2    7.9   101.2  12.1  12.6
iross national savings                8.9     3.6   0.4      8.1    12.1    10.3   10.1    12.9  15.7  16.9
Wemorandum items
3ross domestic product              6473   6414   5662   5175   6183    6344        6818  7133   7655   8076
:USS million at current prices)
3loss national product per capita (USS,   410    430    400    360  350     360     370    380   400   410
ktlas method)
Real annual growth rates
% calculated from 1984 prices)
-Gross domestic product at           5.3%    3.9   5.0%    3.8%    4.5       5.2%    3.5%    5.0   5.5   5.5%
market prices
- Gross Domestic Income              5.4%    3.3   3.8%    5.2%    5.1       3.7%    4.3%    5.5   5.8   5.6%
Real annual per capita growth rates (%
clculated from 1984 prices)
- Gross domestic product at          2.2%    1.0   2.1%     1.1%    1.8      2.4%    0.5%    1.9   2.4   2.4%
market prices
- Total consumption                  0.8%    4.4   2.5%   -0.6%    0.0       2.0%  -         0.9   1.6   2.2%
0.8%
- Private consumption                0.5%    1.6  -1.3%    0.5%    1.5       2.3%    0.9%    1.5   1.1   2.3%
Monetary Indicators
-M2/GDP (at current market          14.2    18.5  18.0    19.5    17.9    17.2   16.1    15.5  15.4  15.4
prices)
- Growth of M2 (%)                  27.2    50.3  27.4    46.2    37.5    34.3   23.0    15.7  12.0  12.0
Price indices (1984-100)
- Merchandise export price index    85      82    76       87      97       89      91      95    99    102
- Merchandise import price index   110    115    116    116       122      123     121    119   120   122
-Merchandisetermsoftradeindex       77      71    65       75      80       72      75      80    83    83
- Real exchange rate (LCU/USS)     307    339    403    493       405      370     360    380   390   400
- Real interest rates (%)           9.7    16.7   7.3      3.0   -25.8    12A       -       -      -     -
- Consumer price index             18.0    10.1  25.0    24.9    59.5    45.6   27.3    12.8   6.0   6.0
(annual % growth rate)
- GDP deflator (annual % growth rate)   20.0    11.2  24.9    29.8    43.4    33.1   26.9    14.6   6.6   6.0
lSource: World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy, August 13, 1997.






APPENDIX C
PAGE 10F2
GHANA
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
- FINSAC II
(CREDIT 2318-GH)
SELECTED BANKING SYSTEM DATA'
TABLE C-1: Sector Size and Concentration
Size of sector       _
Numberofbanks           10       12       12        13       14       13       15        18
Banking systan          22       19       19       23       33        35       25        25
assets/GDP
Concentration (% of
total)__                  _    __  ___                         _    _  _  _
largest bank (GCB)      57.      54       52       44       50        44       29       27
of 4 largpst banks      83       82       77       72       74        72       67       60
Credit to Private      82.8     94.7    188.8    138.9    187.3    273.3    393.3    680.9
Sector (Cedi billions)                                   I        I
Deposits in Banks      148.6    175.9   241.7    340.0    438.6    596.1    805.5   1,069.0
(Cedis billions)                      I                                    I _   _
TABLE C-2: Capital Adequacy Ratios of Banks
^j:.4       Z  .r       - -^, 
Below% We6                       0         1        2        0        0         0        0
1-6%                    1        0        1         0        0        0        0         2
7-12%                   3        4        6         6        6        6         4        3
13-18%                  0        3        2         3        2        1        4         6
19-24%                  0        3        1   1   1          3        3        2         4
25% and above           0        0        2    1   1         0        1         2        3
1 Sources: Bank monitoring report, Bank staff estimates, Bank of Ghana, FINSAP Secretariat estimates, IFS
statistics.



APPENDIX C
PAGE2 02
TABLE C- 3: Operating Ratios of Banks (% of Avenge Total Assets)
1988      8.2                 _     _6.9  _ 1.3      _ 5.3      _ 0.8   |    -4.8    |   NA
1989      7.5        7.0         0.5    |    6.6    |        0.3  _ -6.4    |   NA
1990      9.2        5.2         4.0    |    3.5        1.2        -0.6        NA
1991     10.9        4.9         6.0         2.8        1.9         1.3        NA
1992      9.0        4.9         4.1         1.5        1.2        1.5         17.1
1993      9.3        4.8         4.5         1.2        1.7        1.6         22.0
1994     15.0        5.2         9.8         1.6        3.1        5.1         52.5
1995     16.0        6.3         9.7         0.6        2.5        6.6         50.7
1996     17.2        6.0         10.1        0.7        2.8        7.5         57.5
TABLE C- 4: Comparison of Public and Private Sector Banks'
Intermediation Costs and Returns
Public Banks
Operating Expense            4.1        3.4         4.3          6.4          7.0
Loan Loss Provisions         1.6        0.7         2.1          0.2          0.5
Taxes                        0.7         1.2        3.4          4.4          3.9
Total Intennediation Cost    6.4        5.3         9.8          11.0         11.4
Retum on Equity              8.8        9.2         63.2         57.1         56.7
Private Banks
Operating Expense            7.2        7.7         7.3          7.7          7.6
Loan Loss Provisions         0.3        0.9         0.5          0.1          0.4
Taxes                        2.5        3.1         2.5          2.9          3.0
TotalIntermediationCost      10.0       11.7        10.3         10.7         11.0
Retum on Equity             31.6        43.0        52.6         46.9         54.5



