Document of
FILE COPY                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1920a-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR THE
DAKAR FISHING PORT PROJECT
April 6, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their officlil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =     CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                 =      CFAF 245
CFAF I million          =     US$4,080
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                        US Equivalents
1 meter (m)      3=              3.28 feet (ft)
I cubic meter (m )        =      35.29 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2=       0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km ) =      0.386 square mile (sq mi)
I metric ton (m ton)      =      2,204 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)            =      2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BADEA  -     Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
BCEOM  -     Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements
d'Outre-Mer (consultants, France)
CCCE   -     Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
MPWUT  -     Ministry of Public Works, Urban Development,
and Transport
PAD    -     Port Autonome de Dakar
FISCAL YEAR OF PAD
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR REcuNSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL FOR
THE DAKAR FISHING PORT PROJECT
1.        I submit-the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Loan to the Republic of Senegal in the amount of US$6.0 million equivalent
to help finance the Dakar Fishing Port Project. The Loan will be from the
Bank's Third Window facility, with interest at 4.20 percent per annum; the
first repayment date of the Loan is January 15, 1983, and the final maturity
date is January 15, 2001. US$5.6 million of the Loan proceeds will be re-lent
to the Port Autonome de Dakar (PAD), the proposed executing agency for the
project, on the same terms as a conventional Bank Loan, i.e. 20 years includ-
ing 4-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.20 percent per annum; the remain-
ing $0.4 million will be used directly by the Government for execution of a
study to establish a plan of action for development of the fishing sector.
Additional financing for the proposed project will be provided by loans from
the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) in the amount of
US$7.2 million equivalent, and the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE) in the amount of US$6.0 million equivalent. The BADEA loan
is for a period of 20 years including 5 years of grace, with interest at 5
percent per annum; the CCCE loan is for 20 years including 4 years of grace,
with interest at 5.5 percent per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.         A report entitled "The Economy of Senegal" (212-SE) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on September 10, 1973. Since then, a series
of preparatory sector missions and a basic economic mission visited Senegal
to update the macroeccriomic data base and to review the country's development
strategy. The following paragraphs reflect the findings of these missions,
whose conclusions will be included in a basic economic report now being
prepared. Updated country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Senegal is situated at the extreme western part of the African con-
tinent. In the interior, the mainstay of the economy is millet cultivation
and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic consumption, and groundnut cultiva-
tion for expotts. Soils are generally poor, and variations in rainfall
periodically cause severe food shortages in the months between the sowing
and harvesting cf the next crop. The large river basins -- some of them
fed in the tropical rain zone -- have so far been exploited only marginally.
Land distribution is fairly even.   In the western part of the country arahle
land is becomiiing scarce, but in the extreme south-2ast some good land is
still available. The modern sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar,
a well organized city of about 1 million inhabitants. The economic base of
Dakar consists of excellent port facilities, an industry which is turning
gradually toward exports, and a small but fast-growing tourist sector.
Senegal's per capita GNP for 1975 was estimated at $370, but average in-
come in Dakar is roughly five times as high as in the countryside.
This document has a restricted distribujtion and may be used by recipients only in the pcfformsnre
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be, disc losed without World Banik authorizaticn.



- 2 -
4-.        During the t960s, the Senegalese economy experienced, virtual stag-
nation as real output increased less rapidly than population,. and per capita
GNP declined.   Two factors were responsible for this situation.    First, with.
independence, SenegaI lost its privileged position as the center of French.
West Africa,. and therefore had to adjust to reduced economic, administrative
afid political circumstances.  Secondly, in the latter part of the decade,
groundnut production fell due to unfavorable weather and' declining export
prices. In the 1970s, a new stage in Senegal's development set in, charac-
terized by a higher rate of private and public investment. Private invest-
ments, which had hovered around 4 percent of GDP in the late 1960s, rose to
8 percent during the period 1970-75. Until 1972, public investments stayed
at around 5.5 percent of GDP, but increased to 7 percent in 1975.
5.        While the 1970's saw a rise in the rate of investment, output and
incomes were depressed in 1972 and 1973 by the Sahel's most severe drought in
over a century, which brought a decline in GDP in real terms.     After 1973,
when weather conditions improved and purchasing power of the rural population
was restored, both agricultural and industrial production shot up. The
long-standing Government program to modernize rainfed agriculture proved to
be very successful in years with better rains. In 1975176 the groundnut crop
reached a historical record of 1.45 million tons (more than double the average
for the 1968-73 period), followed by a crop of 1.2 million tons in 1976/77;
manufacturing industry grew by about 11 percent per year between 1973 and
1975. Total production increased in real terms by 5 percent in 1974 and 7 per-
cent in 1975, and continued at about the same rate in 1976.
6.         Strong price increases for Senegal's major exports helped to bring
about the economic recovery.   The prices of both groundnuts and phosphates
quadrupled over the period 1969-74, providing strong incentives to production.
However, since prices of imported oil and food also increased at high rates,
the gains in real income from the rise in export prices were limited. More-
over, in 1975 international prices for Senegal's exports again began to fall,
almost offsetting the growth in real output. These wide international price
fluctuations had serious consequences on domestic prices, public finance, and
balance of payments.
Public Finance and Balance of Payments
7.        The Government responded with considerable flexibility in the
adoption of economic policies. In 1974, the Government initially tried to
maintain stable domestic prices in the face of the skyrocketing food import
prices. By end-1974, it became clear that the costs of this policy were
becoming excessive and that changes would need to be made, even though trans-
fers to the public sector resulting from improved groundnut production and
prices were much higher than in the preceding year. To reduce subsidies
and put public finances on a sounder footing, the Government raised the
prices for rice, sugar, and groundnut oil by 40 to 90 percent. To compen-
sate for the rapid increase in basic food prices, Government salaries were
raised on average by 16 percent, with actual increases ranging from 60 per-
cent for the lower grades to 3 percent for the higher ones. Average consumer
prices rose by some 28 percent in six months' time, but the Government managed



to stabilize prices almost completely thereafter. At the time consumer prices
were raised, the Government also increased producer prices for groundnuts to
bring them closer to world prices which were particularly high. The cost to
the Treasury of this latter step was expected to be compensated in large part
by additional revenues from the profitable phosphate mine in which the Govern-
ment increased its participation while levying an 80 percent tax on the excess
profits accruing from the price rise on the world market. In recent years,
Government revenues from phosphates have amounted to roughly $45 million a
year.
8.        These steps led to an increase in public savings from a yearly
average of US$27 million during fiscal years 1970 through 1973, to US$58
million during fiscal years 1974 through 1976. The higher level of public
savings was doubtless an important factor in stimulating the Government to
increase its expenditure on new investments from a yearly average of US$25
million to US$59 million during the same two periods. In addition to the
rise in investment, purchases of equity and lending to domestic enterprises
by the Government increased from an annual average of US$5 million to US$42
million, mainly because of the participation in the phosphate mine and the
acquisition of two foreign-owned public utility companies. The combined
capital outlays of the Government were thus substantially in excess of public
savings, and were financed in large part through foreign bank loans. As a
consequence, foreign debt service carried by the Central Government increased
from $8 million in FY73 to $28 million in fiscal year 1976, representing about
7 percent of Central Government revenues.
9.        The balance of payments came under heavy pressure in 1973 because
of low groundnut exports and increasing imports of foodstuffs and equipment
goods, and net foreign reserves fell to minus US$32 million. In the following
years the deficit on current transactions was reduced, but the outflows of
private capital related to the acquisition of foreign enterprises continued,
and net foreign reserves reached a level of minus US$66 million at the end of
1975. This was financed by US$30 million in IMF oil facilities, and the rest
by increasing indebtedness of the mostly foreign-owned commercial banks with
their parent companies. Senegal's membership in the West African Monetary
Union lessens the risks usually associated with such low foreign reserves.
10.       During 1976, the balance of payments remained under pressure.    The
state marketing board purchased the large groundnut crop from the farmers at
the favorable prices established in 1974, injecting massive purchasing power
into the economy. Investments and economic activity are therefore likely to
continue their fast growth, and have substantially increased the demand for
imports. However, export revenues stagnated since groundnut prices were 45
percent below the 1974 peak, and phosphate prices were down by 40 percent.
Price declines of the same order of magnitude took place in some of Senegal's
food imports, but the net effect on the terms of trade was heavily negative.
11.       The drop in export prices also created a considerable problem for
public finance. The losses on groundnut transactions in the stabilization
fund were, to a large extent, compensated by gains on the domestic sales of



- 4 -
rice and sugar imports, but budgeted revenues from excess profits on phos-
phate operations did not materialize, creating unexpected deficits during
1976/77. Moreover, the decline of phosphate revenues diminished Government's
ability to cover its financial deficits on the Eurodollar market. In January
1977, the Government decided to adjust its fiscal policies. It postponed all
new current and capital expenditure programs, increased duties on imports
from the EEC, and is considering an increase in the sales tax. It also
abolished subsidies on wheat flour, and reduced fertilizer subsidies by
50 percent. The whole package should improve Government finances by $32
million on an annual basis which will, to a large extent, compensate for the
loss of phosphate revenues. Finally, very recently there has been a recovery
of groundnut prices, which will eliminate the losses on groundnut transac-
tions in the stabilization fund, and one can conclude that the Government
has successfully restored a balance in its current operations.
Prospects and Creditworthiness
12.       The Government's long-range development strategy remains based on
promotion of agriculture and export-oriented activities. The agricultural
program calls for development of areas less affected by rainfall fluctua-
tions (Casamance and Eastern Senegal) where cash crops other than ground-
nuts can be grown. Irrigated cereal production is being developed in the
arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River. This policy
will make the country less dependent on the uncertainties of its climate
and world market prices; but since the majority of the rural poor are
involved in groundnut farming, the Government is continuing its efforts to
promote animal traction, treated seeds, fertilizer use, and crop rotation
to raise the productivity of farmers. The Government also aims at long-term
improvement of the balance of payments mainly through tripling of phosphate
mining capacity, promotion of local cereal production to reduce the heavy
burden of food imports, and development of light export industries and of
tourism. The Government is actively preparing projects in these fields, but
because costs are relatively high in mining and other export sectors, progress
in developing efficient investments may be slow, and a cautious view of the
long-term outlook is warranted. In particular, the expansion of phosphate
mining is uncertain owing to capacity increases in other parts of the world
and falling world market prices. With chances for export growth limited, and
substitution of locally produced cereals for imports critically dependent on
very large investments in irrigation, the trade deficit may stay high, even
if the growth objectives is cut back to well below 4.5 percent a year, as
compared to an official objective of 5.8 percent. Foreign capital aid and
some commercial loans are expected to be available up to a potential of $214
million a year during the 1977/78-1980/81 Plan period in order to finance a
widening gap in the balance of payments.
13.       Because of its public finance and balance of payments situation,
Senegal needs a high percentage of foreign aid in the financing of new proj-
ects. To replace the dwindling savings from the phosphate operation, the
Government raised indirect taxes and reduced subsidies, which is the most
it can be expected to do without excessive pressure on input costs and
consumer prices. Moreover, hardly any other source of finance is open to
the Government. As a member of a monetary union, Government borrowing



from the Central Bank is subject to a statutory ceiling which has almost been
reached, and access to private savings in Senegal and abroad is also very
limited.  To avoid cutbacks in the investment program below a level necessary
to realize only modest economic growth, foreign donors should be prepared to
raise their share in financing investment from 75 percent to about 85 percent,
which implies substantial financing of local costs in appropriate cases.
14.       Senegal is considered eligible for Bank lending on Third Window
terms on the basis of the following criteria: (i) Per Capita Income: In
1975 Senegal's GNP per capita was US$370.   (ii) Performance.  The Government
has demonstrated its commitment to development by increasing public invest-
ments since 1970 by 19 percent per year in current prices. The development
strategy continues to be based on agricultural production and rural devel-
opment to which 27 percent of the new investment program is allocated. In
recent years, price policies have become more favorable to farmers who, as a
group, are the poorest segment of the population.   (iii)  Ability to Repay:
The Government has demonstrated its capacity to respond adequately to the
problems which this vulnerable economy is bound to encounter periodically, and
there are reasonable prospects for long-term diversification and growth. In
view of these factors and Senegal's access to short-term financing facilities
and membership in the West African Monetary Union which reduce the risks
associated with economic fluctuations, the country is creditworthy for addi-
tional Bank lending. However, lenders (including the Bank) should provide a
large part of their assistance on concessionary terms in order to avoid a
rapid build-up of debt service. Assuming the continuation of responsive and
sensible policies, public debt service is expected to increase from 7 percent
of export earnings in 1975 to roughly 11 percent in 1980, and to be kept
between 10 and 15 percent in the long run. (iv) Access to Alternative
Sources of Finance: Since prices of Senegal's major exports on the world
market fell dramatically, the country's ability to borrow from private banks
on the Eurocurrency market has been reduced considerably, while at the same
time it has no special access to new sources of concessionary finance.
Financing development therefore depends heavily on developing good projects
particularly in the production sectors, and attracting financing from the Bank
and other sources, in order to cover foreseeable needs for capital inflows at
concessionary terms.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
15.       The Bank Group has had 30 operations in Senegal to date.    Total
outstanding lending amounts to US$138.5 million, including eighteen IDA
credits, ten Bank loans, two blends of Bank and IDA funds, three IFC opera-
tions, and one blend of Bank and IFC funds. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of February 28,
1977, and notes on the implementation of ongoing projects. Execution of
these projects, apart from the Railway Project, is progressing without ex-
ceptional delays. The procurement for the Railway Project has been slow due
to time-consuming contract approval procedures, but most components have now
been received or ordered. Two agricultural credits (140-SE and 404-SE)
provided for technical assistance designed to facilitate reorganization of the
Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au Developpement (ONCAD), the



- 6 -
national marketing agency, but the programs did not achieve the anticipated
results. The Government took steps in early 1975 to strengthen ONCAD's
management and financial operations, but its overall performance has not
improved.
16.       The Bank Group's share in total disbursements to Senegal over 1976-
81 will stay at around 15 percent, of which roughly 40 percent will be IDA.
The Bank Group's share in outstanding debt was 19 percent in 1975, and will
slowly start, to surpass that level after 1981. The Bank Group's share in
public debt service is expected to increase from 2.7 percent in 1975 to about
8 percent in 1981, a rise which is mainly due to the increase in Bank loans
from 16 percent of Senegal's outstanding debt to the Bank Group in 1975 to
43 percent by 1981.
17.       The objectives of Bank Group lending in Senegal fall under four
main headings. Priority is being given to rural development, including
development of irrigation in the Senegal River Valley Region (e.g., the on-
going River Polders project, and the proposed Debi Lampsar Irrigation Develop-
ment project appraised in February 1977), intensification of groundnut pro-
duction, and diversification into new crops and new regions (e.g., the Sine
Saloum, Terres Neuves and Livestock projects, and the Second Sedhiou project
in Casamance); as in the past, we would expect our agricultural lending over
the next few years to exceed one-third of the total. Secondly, we have
supported diversification of the economy by lending to the growing industrial
sector through the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement de
l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development finance company estab-
lished with Bank Group assistance in 1974;     this diversification objective
is being further assisted by a second SOFISEDIT project approved by the Board
in September 1976, and by a proposed project for the development of tourism
infrastructure on the Petite Cote which we plan to submit for Board considera-
tion during the current fiscal year. Thirdly, we have encouraged moderniza-
tion and expansion of the country's infrastructure through lending for high-
ways, feeder roads, railways, and the Port of Dakar; we are pursuing this
effort through the proposed project for extension of the Dakar fishing port
presented in this report. Finally, Government has asked us to help re-orient
and expand the country's education system, and we are in the process of
identifying a follow-up operation to our Second Education Project.
PART III: THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
18.       Senegal possesses a fairly well-developed transport system concen-
trated on the Cap Vert Peninsula (including the capital city of Dakar) and
the Groundnut Basin farther to the east, which are the areas with the larg-
est population and economic activity. Roads are the principal mode of
domestic transport, carrying about 75% of commercial inter-urban passenger
and freight traffic excluding phosphates. The railway system consists of a
main line from Dakar to Kidira on the Mali border, and several branch lines
including connections from Dakar to St. Louis in the north and to the Taiba
phosphate mine. Traffic at the Port of Dakar, mainly phosphates, petroleum,
general merchandise, and international traffic for Mali and to a limited
extent Mauritania, has doubled over the last ten years, and now totals about



5 million tons annually. Aviation centers on the Dakar airport, a major
international transit point for Europe-Africa-South America traffic. Three
secondary ports and 18 regional airports and airfields are located outside
the Cap Vert region.
19.       The Government's transport strategy aims essentially at: (i) deve-
loping local transport infrastructure in support of overall economic growth,
particularly in agriculture and fisheries and in the newly developing indus-
trial and tourism sectors; (ii) promoting regional integration, especially
to develop efficient transport links within rural areas, and connections
with East Senegal and the Casamance region in the south; and (iii) assuring
adequate maintenance for the already extensive investment in the sector. In
addition, Senegal will continue to provide neighboring landlocked Mali with
an efficient link to the sea, and to upgrade its own international transport
facilities in air, port, and railway services. The Government's ability to
do effective sector planning and coordination has been improved by the
creation in mid-1975 of the Directorate of Studies and Programming (DSP)
within the Ministry of Public Works, Urban Development and Transport. DSP,
with technical assistance financed by the Bank Group under the Third Highway
Project will execute economic and technical studies, and help to determine
strategy and investment priorities in the transport sector. The proposed
project fot extension of the Dakar fishing port is designed to fit into the
Government's overall transport strategy, while at the same time addressing
some of tlew needs for development of the industrial fishing sector which has
so far becA rather neglected.
20.       hank Group operations in the sector have,helped to establish the
basic trantport infrastructure, and then to ensure its successful tlairtenance
1rnd effici(tlLt use; the greatest activity has been in highways, particularly
in pavemenat strengthening and maintenance operations, as well as feeder road
constructiSni and improvement. Total lending in the amount of US$42.3 million
cquivalcnt lhas helped finance four projects in the highway sub-sector, two
directed t-tward improving the physical infrastructure of the railway system
and increaing locomotive capacity, one in aviation for major improvements to
the Dakar Airport, and one for extension of a mole at the Port.of Dakar,
reconstruction of two quays, and execution of a dredging program.   Details of
ongoing prejects are given in Annex II.
The Port of Dakar
21.       The port of Dakar enjoys an excellent sheltered location free from
heavy swells and siltation. There are 46 well-equipped berths to handle
containers, general cargo, phosphates and groundnuts for export, oil and
petroleum products, and fishing traffic. Road and rail access to the port is
good. The general layout of the port is shown in Map IBRD 12251R.
22.       As a result of the very rapid expansion of the industrial fish-
ing fleet over the past ten years, there is now a severe shortage of berth
space for fishing vessels and for landing the catches, and commercial opera-
tions at the port are becoming seriously affected. Since traffic projections
through 1983 indicate a notable increase not only in overall dry cargo but
also in fresh fish and fish products, there is an urgent need for the proposed
project which provides for extension of the fishing port facilities and the



- 8 -
required organization and management services. The Government is studying
the possibility of constructing a new port at Sedar, about 80 km north of
Dakar, to handle imports of crude oil for a proposed new-refinery, and
exports of phosphates, petroleum products, and possibly iron ore. These
studies are still only at a preliminary stage, but even if the port were
eventually built, activity in Dak,ar Port and resultant revenues would be
affected only minimally.
23.       The Port Autonome de Dakar (PAD) was formed in .1959, and since
1960 has been a public enterprise charged with operation and maintenance
of the port facilities, and responsible for improvement avid expansion works.
Separate Government departments control health and immigration services,
police, customs, navigation aids, and railways-within the port.    Executive
functions are vested in the Port Director.    More substantive,decisions of
the port's 17-member Board of Directors are spbject to joint approval of
the Ministers of Finance and of Public Works, UIrban Development and Transvort;
tariffs on goods also require the agreement of the Minister of Indu4tri4l
Development.
24.       Management of the port is good, and technical assistance staff
are assigned and used effectively. Personnel, including expatriates, are
generally well trained. The port organization is satisfactory and works
well. There is however no special unit to manage and control fishing oper-
ations, and only recently has a system been instituted for recording the
movements of fishing vessels and evaluating landed catches. The proposed
project provides for the establishment and staffing of an appropriAte or-
ganization within PAD to manage the new fishing port.
PART IV: THE FISHERY SECTOR
Marine Resources
2
25.       The continental shelf off Senegal covers an area of about 24,000 km
Oceanographic conditions along the coast are very favorable to marine life,.
and allow abundant fish resources. The exploitation of these resources is
periodically reviewed by a Working Group on resources evaluation of the FAO
Fishing Committee for the Eastern Central Atlantic. The reports of this
Working Group provide up-to-date information on fish stocks, and make recommen-
dations on research programs to be undertaken. In addition, extensive studies
have been carried out by the Dakar Research Center of Oceanography with
assistance from the UNDP/FAO to evaluate fish stocks in the waters off
Senegal, Gambia, and Guinea Bissau, and to recommend the maximum feasible
level of catches.   Current estimates indicate that a total of about 900,000
tons of coastal pelagic fish, tuna, demersal and similar exploitable species
can be caught annually without depleting the stocks.
The Fishing Industry
26.       Over the past 20 years, Senegal has become one of the leaders of
fishery development in West Africa, and its fishermen among the most active
and successful in the region. This development has come about primarily



-9-
because of the existence within Senegalese territorial waters (recently
extended to 150 miles offshore) of a large fishing potential, and because
of the Government's efforts to strictly enforce the territorial limits.
Until recently, fish stocks off the Senegalese coast were exploited by
large foreign fleets not based in West Africa which usually ship directly
to consuming countries, and land only a small part of their catches for pro-
cessing in Dakar. Exclusive fishing zones are now established in accordance
with recent fishing agreements (see para. 32), and foreign vessels must now
land a large part of their catches at Dakar, and also pay tonnage fees on
volumes of fish landed. Over the life of the existing fishing agreements
(an estimated average of about ten years), a total of about US$55 million
equivalent in loans and credits from various bilateral and multilateral
donors is expected to be generated, and a significant proportion of this
amount will be made available for investment in the Senegalese fishing indus-
try during the next development plan period 1977-81.
27.       The fishing sector contributes about 7% of GDP, although only about
one-third of the estimated potential catch in Senegalese waters is now being
landed. Approximately 75% of this catch results from the operation of about
4,000 canoes employing some 30,000 fishermen; this traditional fishing sec-
tor has developed over recent years as a result of operations in various
projects financed by the Government and other bilateral sources, particularly
Canada and Denmark. Landings of the Dakar-based industrial fleet account for
the remaining 25% of total catch, mostly in high-value species, and contribute
approximately 4% of GDP and 9% of total export value. Total landings of the
Dakar-based fleet have been increasing at about 18% annually from 16,000 tons
in 1964 to about 80,000 tons in 1974.
28.       The rapid growth of the industrial fishing industry has resulted
in a serious shortage of berth space in the port of Dakar available for
fishing vessels. The proposed project would be a major step in expanding
port facilities so that Senegal can realize the important potential contri-
bution of the industrial fishing sector to the country's economic growth.
The Dakar-based fleet currently in operation consists of about 150 vessels,
about half of them Senegalese-owned. The net fixed asset value of the fleet
is about US$25 million. However, many of the vessels are old and becoming
uneconomical to operate, and major renewal is required with larger and more
expensive vessels with greater fish capacity, but requiring less maintenance
and smaller crews. Adequate financing for this renewal effort is expected
to become available within the sector from revenues derived primarily from
fishing agreements with foreign fleets, as well as from profits from commercial
fishing, and through local commercial and development banks.
Fish Marketing and Processing
29.       The total amount of fish landed in Senegal in 1975 was about 300,000
tons (excluding landings by foreign fleets for temporary storage in Dakar before
re-export), of which approximately 240,000 tons were marketed fresh for local
consumption. About 80,000 tons were landed by the industrial fleet, and
almost three-quarters of this amount were processed for export, mostly to
Europe. Although there is a considerable demand for imports of fish products
in major West African countries, exports from Senegal have so far been limited
to about 15,000 - 18,000 tons a year, mainly to the Ivory Coast. The development



- 10 -
of Senegalese exports within the region has been hampered especially by
competition from foreign vessels, and by the lack of organization and govern-
mental support to Senegalese firms for export promotion. The Government
has taken several measures to help remedy these problems. Among the most
important is the recently established policy which allows fleets of West
African countries to operate in Senegalese waters if they open up their
markets to Senegalese fish products. Also, new joint ventures have been
created between Senegalese and Ivorian firms for marketing Senegalese
products in the Ivory Coast. The proposed project provides consulting ser-
vices to establish a plan of action for development of the fishery sector;
this is expected to include a study of possible new markets for high-value
species particularly in Europe and Japan and for other species of pelagic
fish on the West African market, and to recommend measures for assuring
development of these markets.
30.       There are 23 major fish processing plants with a total raw material
capacity more than double their present output. In 1975, net fixed assets of
the processing industry amounted to about $14 million, and total turnover of
the processing plants at Dakar was about $42 million, of which about 75% in
frozen fish, 20% in canned products, and 5% in fishmeal.
Sectoral Policy
31.       The Directorate of Fishery and Oceanography within the Ministry
of Rural Development is charged with implementing Government policy in the
sector; it is particularly responsible for preparing projects, negotiating
fishing agreements, and operating coastal patrol vessels to enforce fishing
regulations. The Senegalese Navy is responsible for control of the terri-
torial waters, and the Merchant Marine for vessel registration, maritime
labor, and safety at sea.
32.       In addition to the traditional agreement with the Gambia which pro-
vides reciprocal fishing rights between the two countries, the Government
of Senegal has passed a variety of laws in recent years to permit better
preservation of fish resources in its territorial waters, and to promote
the development of a dynamic domestic fishing sector through a liberal
policy concerning foreign and national private investment. The policies
regarding fishing operations in Senegalese waters differ as between develop-
ing and developed countries. Fleets from West African countries south of
Guinea where fishing is limited are allowed in Senegalese waters on condition
that the vessels are based at Dakar and land their catches there, that they
invest in processing plants, and that their markets be open to Senegalese fish
exports without tariff discrimination. Fishing agreements with developed
countries are entered into on a selective basis, with priority given to those
which have traditionally participated in Senegal's economic development.
Agreements include fees for catches not landed in Senegal, special import
tariffs for fish products re-exported from Dakar to the home country, and
the creation of joint ventures to develop the Senegalese fishing industry.
Since the establishment of this policy, several countries including Japan,
Spain, France, Italy, Kuwait, and Poland have entered into agreements, and
most of them now have fleets based in Dakar.
33.       Agreements now being negotiated with foreign fleets will de-emphasize
the policy of "fishing royalties" and will instead require direct investments



- 11 -
in Senegal. Attempts will be made to develop joint venture enterprises in
which Senegalese would own a minimum of one-third of the capital, and would be
associated with management. Further, a concentrated effort will be directed
to developing Senegalese enterprises sufficiently to enable them to compete
with foreign corporations in fishing and processing activities, and in market-
ing of export products. The proposed extension of the Dakar fishing port, and
planning and management of its operations, would provide the infrastructure
needed to help the Government fulfill its primary objective of increasing its
share of the value-added of fish caught within Senegalese territorial waters.
Training and Technical Assistance
34.       Training of fishermen and ship mechanics has increased signifi-
cantly over the past 15 years, but existing programs need to be improved
and expanded. The Government is alert to the training requirements to ser-
vice the expected rapid development of maritime fishing over the next decade,
and intends to develop training in the sector at several levels: college
and university, and post-university training in management and specialized
fishery activities which is presently non-existent; professional training at
the Nautical College of Dakar (where some technical assistance and equipment
purchase are being financed under the Association's ongoing Second Education
Project) and at the School of Fisheries Administration; vocational training
to develop technicians and mechanics in artisanal fishing activities; and
management training for officers for four or five new secondary fishing
ports which the Government is planning to develop.
35.       For the proposed project, it is planned to establish a separate
organization within PAD responsible for management and operation of the fish-
ing port, so as to assure adequate control and development of the industrial
fishing sector, and to derive as much revenue as possible from activities at
the new port. PAD personnel for the various management-level positions re-
quired will be trained by technical assistance experts to be provided by FAO.
PART V: THE PROJECT
Backgroun'd
36.       The first Dakar Port project (Loan 493-SE, US$4.0 million, 1967) was
designed principally to restore and expand existing general cargo-handling
facilities; the project also included important financial and institutional
objectives relating to port organization and operations, and for improvement
of the accounting system. The project was implemented satisfactorily and
almost exactly as conceived, with final costs approximately 15% lower than
appraisal estimates. During final supervision of the project in mid-1973, the
proposed operation for extension of the fishing port facilities was identified.
37.       Negotiations for the proposed Loan were held in W4ashington in
November 1976 with a Senegalese delegation headed by Mr. Tidiane N'Diaye,



- 12 -
Director of Finance in the Ministry of Planning, and with representatives from
the co-financers BADEA and CCCE. Further discussions were held with the co-
financers in Paris in March 1977 to finalize details of the financing plan.
The Staff Project Report (No. 1260a-SE) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. A Loan and Project summary is given in Annex III, and
the project layout is shown in Maps IBRD 11251R and 11252.
Description
38.        The project consists of:
(i) civil works (ir.cluding consulting services for supervision) for:
(a) construction of about 1,500 m of new berth face; (b) reclama-
tion of about 10.5 ha of land; (c) paving of the reclaimed areas
and installation of ancillary services; (d) demolition of the
existing slipway and associated buildings; and (e) construction of
the main access road to the new fishing port (see Map IBRD 12252).
(ii)  technical assistance for (a) management, operations, and planning
for the fishing port; (b) introduction of analytical accounting
procedures and preparation of a cost-based tariff structure; and
(c) introduction of an "ad valorem" tariff structure for fish
traffic.
(iii)  consulting services to (a) study and define the needs of the
port of Dakar for nandling container ships, and outline the
development of container port facilities and equipment required
to handle future container traffic adequately and competitively;
and (b) study in depth the current situation in industrial and
traditional fisheries and related activities, and then establish
a coherent plan of action for development of the sector over the
next ten years.
Execurion
39.       LDtatiled engineering, preparation of tenders, and evaluation of
bids for the proposed civil works have been completed by consultants BCEOM
(France) wicr. FAD) financing.  Consultants for supervision and control of the
work.s will De selected in agreement wiih, and on terms and conditions accep-
.able to the Bank. The consultants will be expected to work in collaboration
with PAD's engineering staff so that the latter can receive the maximum
training and experience from being closely involved in implementation and
supervision of the proposed works. Civil works are ex,pected to start in
mid-1977, and to take about three years to complete.



- 13 -
40.       Management and operation of the fishing port will be by PAD per-
sonnel trained to fill the various positions required. The required train-
ing will be carried out during the project construction period and for about
one year after the start of fishing port operations by experts provided by FAO
and financed under the proposed Loans. Technical assistance for the introduc-
tion of analytical accounting, preparation of a cost-based tariff structure,
and introduction of an "ad valorem" tariff system for fish traffic will be
provided either by a consulting firm or by individual experts selected in
agreement with, and under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
41.       The proposed project provides about 30 man-months of services over
six months for execution of a container study by consultants who would be
expected to:   (a) study current and projected container traffic for the West
Africa coast, and determine what proportion could pass through Dakar port; (b)
determine the scope and timing of facilities and equipment required to service
this traffic; (c) prepare detailed cost estimates and an economic and financial
justification for the proposed facilities, with recommendations regarding
management and tariffs; and (d) update the existing port master plan to
include the proposed facilities and the areas zoned for the fishing port,
containers, and other developments.
42.       The proposed project also provides about 60 man-months of consult-
ing services over approximately 15 months to carry out a fishing sector study.
Consultants will be required primarily to: (i) identify and define the different
types of fishing activities in the country and carry out technical and economic
analysis of each, as well as a critical analysis of the possibilities for
development taking into account particularly available resources, markets, and
other relevant technical, sociological and economic factors; (ii) carry out
an inventory of equipment used in the fishing sector (ships, freezing equipment,
factories, etc.) and analyze their productivity levels; (iii) analyze domestic
and export markets for fish products, and study possible new markets for
high-value fish for example in Europe and Japan, and for other species in the
West African region, and measures required to assure their development; and
(iv) study the organization and functioning of different services responsible
for the administration, control and planning of fisheries activities, as well
as those of research institutes, training centers, and other agencies offering
credit or other assistance to the fishing sector. More generally, the con-
sultants will be expected to evaluate the various programs and development
projects in the sector either underway or planned, to study the functioning
of fisheries cooperatives and propose a system which could work effectively,
and investigate the socio-economic context in which both the industrial and
the traditional fishing sectors operate. It is-expected that the required
services will be provided by one or more consulting firms, and will eventually
be completed by other specialists on short-term assignments as required. On
the basis of the broad lines of their analysis as outlined above, the consul-
tants will be expected to make realistic recommendations for the preparation
and implementation of a coordinated plan of action for development of the
fisheries sector over the next ten years. The above outline terms of refer-
ence have been agreed with the Government.



- 14 -
43.        Details of all arrangements for project implementation and supervi-
sion (in which the Bank will have the principal role), as well as outline
terms of reference for all the proposed consulting and technical assistance
services, have been agreed with the Government, PAD and the co-financers
(Sections 3.01-3.02 of the Loan Agreement, and Sections 2.01-2.08 and 4.04
of the Project Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing
44.        The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$24 mil-
lion equivalent, with foreign costs of about US$10 million (about 40%). The
costs include about US$2.7 million equivalent representing two tax elements
(turnover tax and licensing fees) which will be paid by PAD as part of its
contribution to the project costs; the Government has agreed to exempt the
project from all other taxes, as well as from customs duties on imported
materials and equipment. PAD will also have to pay interest during project
construction estimated at US$3.31 million equivalent. The above cost estimates
also include a 10% physical contingency allowance on civil works items, as
well as price contingencies averaging 22.5% over the project period based on
assumed annual increases applied as follows: 1976, 13%; 1977-79, 12%; and
1980-81, 10%.
45.        Costs for civil works are based on consultants' recommendations
following the evaluation of tenders received in September 1976. The rela-
tively low foreign exchange cost is due to the fact that the contractor
submitting the lowest tender is locally based, and also because of the
expected predominant use of local materials in the construction works
(para. 48).
46.        Costs for technical assistance services (about 135 man-months)
have been estimated on the following basis: (i) a total of about 48 man-
months for the Fishing Port Manager and the Harbor Master; (ii) up to 21
man-months for the Fishing Port Planning Adviser to prepare the land-use
pattern for the reclaimed lands, and to make required adjustments in the
paving works and ancillary services; (iii) about 54 man-months of expert
services to advise on preparation of analytical accounting and of cost-based
tariffs; and (iv) about 12 men-months for an advisor on the application of
"ad valoremr" tariffs for fish traffic. A cost of about US$8,000 per man-
month for expatriate experts (including direct and indirect costs) has been
estimated for the proposed technical assistance and consulting services for
the studies, based on current costs for similar expert services in other
projects in Senegal and in West Africa generally.



- 15 -
47.       A summary table of cost estimates and the proposed project financing
plan is shown below:
(in US$ Million equivalent)
Costs               Financing Arrangements
on joint basis
Local  Foreign   Total     IBRD  BADEA  CCCE      PAD   Govt.
1/                                               1/
1.  Civil Works       12.86    8.59   21.45     4.51   7.20    6.00    3.74    -
(including
contingencies)   (3.31)  (2.22)  (5.53)
2. Construction
Supervision      0.37     0.37    0.74     0.37    -       -      0.37    -
3. Technical
Assistance        0.48    0.48    0.96     0.48    -       -      0.48    -
(about 135
manmonths)
4.  Studies            0.16    0.64    0.80      0.64   -       -      0.06  0.10
(about 90
manmonths)
Total            13.87   10.08   23.95      6.00  7.20    6.00    4.65  0.10
Percentage of Total Cost                        (25%)  (30%)  (25%)   (19.5%) (0.5%)
1/   Including US$2.7 million equivalent in taxes.
The total cost of civil works will be financed jointly by the Bank, BADEA,
CCCE and PAD. The external lenders will cover 90% of total project costs net
of taxes, and the Bank Loan will finance US$3.68 million of foreign exchange
costs and US$2.32 million equivalent of local currency expenditures. The
financing of local costs for this project is considered appropriate because of
the Government's current difficult public finance situation (see para. 13).
Procurement and Disbursements
48.       The proposed civil works were split into five lots for tender purposes
following procedures of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. Of the 25 contracting firms which indicated interest
in the project, 21 were prequalified for all or some of the lots. Contractors
were invited to tender for all of the lots or for a combination of lots for
which they were pre-qualified. Competitive tenders were received which were
well prepared; the lowest tender is about 30% below the consultants' estimate
at project appraisal. Contract awards will be based on the lowest evaluated
combination of bids, and will be made only after the proposed Loan is approved.



- 16 -
49.        Disbursements from the proposed Loan will be made on the following
basis: (i) for civil works, 21% of total costs; (ii) for consulting services
for construction supervision and technical assistance, 50% of total costs
(representing the estimated foreign exchange component); and (iii) for consult-
ing services for studies, 80% of total costs (representing the estimated
foreign exchange component).
Environmental Impact of the Project
50.       The configuration of the proposed fishing port includes the creation
of a sheltered basin. The entrance to the basin is up-wind of the prevailing
winds, and a thermal electricity generating station has its cooling water
intake and discharge in the basin; also, a large stormwater canal discharges
into the basin. Because of these features, it is essential that water in the
basin should be able to circulate with tidal changes, and measures have been
taken to assure this.
51.       There has been some concern that in the present situation where
many fishing vessels use temporary berths in the port area near the phos-
phate-loading berths, there may be some contamination of the fish catches;
this problem is expected to disappear when all fishing vessels are berthed at
the new project site away from the phosphate berths.
Employment and Urban Impact
52.       The fishing industry based in Dakar now employs about 5,500 people,
about half of whom are shore-based employees of the fishing fleet and crews
of the fishing vessels. In view of changing patterns in the size and techno-
logy of these vessels, the numbers of crew employed will increase only
slightly as the fleet develops; however, the number of shore-based employees
will double by the end of the 1980's as a result of increased operations
generated by the proposed project. The range of employment within the indus-
try varies widely from unskilled labor to highly trained technicians and
operators.
53.       Development of the fishing port is expected to have a beneficial
urban impact in the renewal of large land areas near the site. PAD has
already started acquiring land and demolishing buildings. The newly ac-
quired lands will be leased to companies or organizations associated with
the fishing industry which need accommodation near the port. Within these
zoned lands is a small area currently occupied by about 100 people engaged
in very small businesses for fish-drying and salting, and catering services.
Since these people will be displaced by the proposed renewal, PAD has arranged
to provide a new building near the entrance to the fishing port where they
can be relocated, and where catering services can be undertaken under conditions
much more hygienic than at present, and with proper sanitation facilities and
other amenities. Construction is expected to start shortly.



FINANCIAL EVALUATION
Present Financial Position of PAD
54.       PAD's audited accounts for the year ending June 30, 1975 show its
finances to be fairly sound. However, PAD's cash balance has diminished over
the past three years by about CFAF 635 million (approximately US$2.6 million
equivalent) due mainly to heavy capital expenditure. Also, its receivables
(particularly those concerning Government departments and public enterprises)
increased to about 49% of gross operating revenue as against the 15% limit
agreed under the First Port Project. This level was reduced to about 36%
at June 30, 1976 following PAD's application of specific measures to assure
recoveries. Since in view of PAD's obligations under the proposed project
it is essential to improve its liquidity, PAD has agreed to the implementation
of a plan which prescribes further strict measures to progressively reduce
its level of receivables to acceptable limits by December 31, 1977. These
limits have been agreed as follows: (i) reduction of ordinary accounts re-
ceivable to not more than 15% of gross revenues; and (ii) reduction of spe-
cial accounts receivable (pertaining particularly to services for lights,
buoys, Dakar-Goree ferry, houses for security guards) from the present level
of about CFAF 200 million to CFAF 50 million. (Section 4.08 of the Project
Agreement).
55.       The Loan Agreement for the First Port Project stipulated that PAD
should revise the value of its fixed assets in 1967/68 as a one-time measure,
and should achieve a minimum rate of return of 6% on the value of such assets
from 1970/71 onwards; a corresponding rate of return of 7% was achieved in
1974/75. The existing assets now need to be revalued at least by the end of
fiscal year 1977/78, and thereafter as frequently as necessary at intervals
not exceeding five years for the purpose of fixing appropriate tariff levels
and acceptable rate of return limits. PAD and the Government have agreed that
this will be done in consultation and agreement with the Bank (Section 4.05 of
the Project Agreement).
56.       In addition to PAD's need to improve its liquidity, port finances
also have to be strengthened by augmenting revenues now and in the future.
To help assure PAD's ability to meet its increased financial obligations
without having to raise tariffs to unrealistically high levels, the Govern-
ment has agreed to exempt PAD from paying income tax during the period of
project execution.
57.       In order to improve its financial control system, the Government
recently permitted PAD to have its own internal computer capacity for pre-
paring accounts and statistics. PAD has now completed a study of its data
processing needs, staff are being trained, and the equipment is expected
to be in service by mid-1977. Apart from the relaxation of the central-
ized accounting control which this will offer, however, the Government has
not yet found it possible to relinquish a priori control as had been agreed
under the First Port Project. However, the Government has provided assurances
thaX it will take all necessary measures, determined in consultation with the
Bank, to grant broader financial autonomy to PAD by June 30, 1977 or a later
date as agreed with the Bank (Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
Tariffs
58.       Port tariffs and related regulations authorized by PAD's Board
are subject to Government approval. Tariff increases have been effected
regularly since 1967 in compliance with agreements reached under the First
Port Project. Following the Bank's suggestion for strengthening PAD's fi-
nances in 1976/77, tariffs were revised in July 1976 which should result
in an overall increase in estimated revenue for that year of approximately
10.6%.
59.       PAD's existing accounting system does not allow costing of ser-
vices, and tariffs are consequently not cost-based. The proposed project
provides technical assistance (including training of Senegalese counterpart
personnel) to devise a new analytical accounting system and a cost-related
tariff structure, and to introduce them by July 1, 1978. As regards the
traffic in fresh fish and fish products, the project provides further tech-
nical assistance to implement an "ad valorem" system of tariffs. This is
considered more appropriate than the present per-ton basis, primarily because
in determining taxable capacity the value of different species is more
significant than their weight. The proposed "ad valorem" system will also
be introduced by July 1, 1978 (Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement).
Financial Projections
60.       Revenue estimates to 1982/83 have been based on existing tariffs
as applied to current traffic forecasts, and on the assumption that, even
before project completion, PAD will improve its control of fishing opera-
tions sufficiently to increase revenue. Expenditure estimates allow for
an annual inflation rate of 6% and an annual increase of 4% on account of
traffic growth. Other main assumptions, based on agreements reached under the
proposed project, are that PAD will not be subject to income tax until the
project is completed, and that it will restrict its non-project capital
expenditure to an annual average of CFAF 500 million during the project
period. The financial projections, which allow for revaluation of assets in
1977/78 and 1982/83, indicate that PAD must raise additional revenue almost
continuously from 1977/78, mainly to meet its increased financial obligations
arising from the project.   For this purpose, PAD will have to achieve a
minimum rate of return on net fixed assets in use of 6% up to 1976/77, of 5.5%
in: each year until 1980/81 or until completion of the project whichever is
later, and from 1981/82 (or the year from which income tax is levied for the
first time) a minimum rate of return of 4.75%.    PAD will also be expected to
maintain a working ratio not exceeding 60% until 1979/80, and not exceeding
55% thereafter. Agreements have been reached on achievement of the above
stipulated levels (Sections 4.03, 4.06, and 4.09 cf the Project Agreement).
61.       PAD's ratios of current assets and liquid assets to current lia-
bilities will improve with the accumulation of cash representing mainly
additional depreciation. As a result of the proposed large-scale borrowing
for the project, the debt/equity ratio will increase from 5/95 in 1975/76
to 26/74 in 1979/80, a level which would still be considered acceptable.



Nevertheless, PAD has agreed not to incur any additional long-term debt,
except in agreement with the Bank, unless its net revenue is at least 1.5
times the maximum future debt service requirement (Section 4.07 of the Pro-
ject Agreement).
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
62.       The proposed project has been designed to eliminate the present
congestion at Dakar's fishing fleet facilities, and to provide adequate
berthing facilities for both domestic and foreign fishing fleets; satisfactory
completion of these measures will help the Government fulfill its objective of
developing the industrial fishing sector and expanding local processing
activities to increase exports. Landings by the Dakar-based industrial fleet
increased from about 16,000 tons in 1964 to almost 80,000 tons in 1974/75,
i.e. at an average rate of 18% p.a. Present forecasts show that these volumes
would reach about 125,000 tons in 1979, 200,000 tons in 1983, and possibly a
maximum of about 260,000 tons by the end of the 1980s. Landings by foreign
fleets are also expected to increase over the same period from their present
level of about 30,000 tons to about 80,000 tons; these fleets operate off the
West African coast, and occasionally call at Dakar to sell their fish catch to
processing plants or to use shore storage facilities before re-export.
Project Benefits and Risks
63.       The proposed project is expected to yield direct benefits mainly
from:
(a) improvement of existing operations of the fishing fleet,
and consequent savings in loading and unloading costs,
fish deterioration losses, and time spent in servicing
fishing vessels and handling freezer cargo ships;
(b) avoidance of existing and future congestion at the
commercial berths, half of which would be permanently
employed in fishing activities by 1983 if the project were
not undertaken. Under such conditions, the berth occupancy
rate would reach 80% which would significantly increase
ship-waiting time (chiefly during peak traffic periods),
while the permanent presence of fishing equipment at the
commercial berths would hamper cargo shore-handling
operations and thus increase handling costs and ship
turnaround times;
(c) improvement in productivity of existing fish plants
now operating at half capacity, resulting from increased
catches by the local fleet and increased landings from
foreign fleets attracted by the improved port operations
(and the enforcement of international agreements relating
to fishing in Senegalese waters).
The above benefits represent the minimum that the project will yield.



- 20 -
64.       The benefits accruing from the proposed investment in the project
(corresponding to the minimal benefits spelled out in para. 63 above) yield
an overall economic return estimated at 23%. If, for purposes of a sensiti-
vity test, project costs are assumed to be 15% higher and benefits 20% lower,
the project would still yield an economic return of 17%.    The economic return
for Senegal alone (excluding benefits to the foreign fishing fleets and
benefits to foreign-owned fish processing plants transferred abroad) is
estimated at 17% which is satisfactory. The economic analysis also indicates
that the economic return of the project based on improvement of port opera-
tions alone (i.e. excluding benefits from processing plants) is about 16%.
65.       The scope for potential benefits is far greater than outlined
above. The creation of an integrated fishing port facility will permit a
basic expansion of the fishing and fish-processing industries with a host
of associated activities such as ice-making, bunkering, ship-chandling,
ship-repairing, etc. Quantification of such benefits would require paral-
lel assumptions with respect to additional capital investments in vessels,
plant, structures, and equipment, which lie well beyond the scope of this
project. Finally, there are other benefits which do not lend themselves to
quantification in a reliable manner, but which are nonetheless substantial;
these include benefits to services and corporations involved in export activ-
ities, reduced risk of pollution in the port area, and improved berthing
conditions for the fishing fleet in inclement weather.
66.       The economic evaluation confirms that the proposed project is
justified primarily by the expected general improvements in port operations;
it will also provide the means for the expected important development of shore
activities. Since the project provides an adequate rate of return even without
considering additional traffic to be generated, there is no real risk element
involved. However, in order that Senegal may benefit to the maximum from the
project and fully utilize the facilities to be provided, the Government has
provided assurances that it will apply various incentives to assure the
growth and modernization of the Dakar-based fleet, and a continued increase
in fish landings for processing by local industries. These incentives re-
late mainly to: (i) organization and operations of the various departments
involved in the administration, control, and planning of fishing activities;
(ii) the exploitation of fish resources; (iii) the effective utilization
of credit institutions and agencies involved in promoting fishing; and (iv)
vocational training and creation or development of fishery research institutes
(Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement).
67.       The Government will discuss with the Bank in mid-1977 its overall
investment program in the industrial fishing sector during the next economic
development plan period 1977-81. The proposed project provides for execution
of a study to establish a plan of action for development of the sector over
the next ten years; the study is expected to include a marketing survey of
potential exports for Senegalese fish products to major European and African
countries..



68.       The availability of fish to justify the proposed project construc-
tion may be considered a risk, but fish resources off the Senegalese coast
are being continuously monitored by competent organizations (para. 25), and
the best estimates indicate that existing and potential resources are far more
than enough to allow the large annual catch necessary to support a flourish-
ing fishing industry without severely depleting the stocks.
PART VI: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of Sene-
gal, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Port Autonome de
Dakar, the Report of the Committee provided in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and the text of a Resolution ap-
proving the proposed Loan, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
70.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Annex IV,
Section III.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Bank and with the established criteria for Third
Window loans.
PART VII: RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments:
Washington, D.C.
April 6, 1977






TACLE 3A                                           Page I of J4 pages
SENEGAL- SOCIkL INDIC&TOpS DATA SHEET
LARiD AREA (THOU BU2)                      ------------
---------------                         3~~~~~ENEGAL                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
FOYAL        196.2                                          MOST RECENT
AGRIC.                                     1960       1970    ES T IRA rE         GHANA           IVORY COAST     TUNISIA 
GNP PER CAPITA (USA)                         220.0        2O.0         3?O0.300                         30.          300
POPULAT1lN   AND VITAL STATISTICS
P3P'JLATION (M10OVR. MILLION)                3.4         41.4         5.0                  8.6          S. 4         5.1
POPULATION DENSITY
PEA SQUAR: KA4.                          IT .0        22. 0        25.0                 36.0         16.0         31.0
PER SQ. AN'. AGRICULTURAL LARD              *          39.0          *                   63.0        30.0
VITAL STAr1sTics
CRUDE AlARM RATE PER THOUSAND            48.0         47.6         47.6                 49.8         46.1        44.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND             27. 5       2 4.4        23.9                 24.4         23J.3       16.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)               ..        56.0        150.0                156.0           ..       12.0
LIrE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH CTRS)           35.9         40.0         40.0                 41.5         41.0        52.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                     .          3. 0         3 .0                 3.2          3. 1         3. 4
POPULATION G9OWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                                     2 .1          2.6         2.F                  2.6          3 
URBAN                                     3.5          6.0            ..                                F2 :0
JR8AN POPULATION (I Of TO-TAL)              ?2. 7        29. 0                                   28.)  2. 0         4 0. 0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
D) T) 14 YEARS                          4z.6i        4 1.2          ..46. 9                        42. 5        4 6. 3  1
15 T3 64 YEARS                           53 .6        S4. 9                             49. 5        5b.8        5 0. 2 
65 YE.ARS AND OVER                        3.8           3. 9          ..                  .6          2. T         3. 5
AGE DEPENDE4CY RATIO                         0.9          0.8           .                  1. 0         0.8          1. 0
E:OONOIC OEPENOENCT RATIO                    1.ZL         1. 2~j    -   .                  1. 4         0.9L         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU).                           .             .                 10. 9           .       112. 2
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMEN)                  .            ..                              2.0           ..         12.0
EKPL3y RENT
TUTAL LA8OR FORCE (THOUSAND)              1 300 .0    1600.0            .               3300.0       2600.0      1 300.0 
LABOR 'ORCE IN AGRICULTURE (Z)                 .         7 3. 0          .5 4.0                        82.0         57. 0 
UNEMPL3YED (Z OF LABOR FORCE)                 ..           .0            .5.0L                          6. 0        12.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCOME REC-D BYT
HIGH-ST   53 OF HOUSEHOLDS                323:.                       .                    .5. .L
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                62.             ...                              .             .          ss
LOWEST   200 Or HOUSEHOLDS                 1.2 Z..                                         ..                      A. 2
LIWEST   400 OF HOUSEHOLDS                  . 4                                                                   IL.  .   .1.4t
OISIRIAUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNE) BT TOP 100 OF OWNERS                  .....                                          .            .          sOi
OWNEO BY SMALLEST 101 OWNERS                O...                      ..                               ..05~
HEALT4A AND NUTRITION
PaPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 22100.OLi    1661)0.0     16540.0             12950.0      12140.0       5950.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                 .         600         26.                  000k        28.      i    100L
POPUJLATION PER HOSPITAL BED               830.0oLd     8YO.0 /      81)0.0 jtbJ         760.0        680.0         1 0.0 a
PER CA'1TA SUPPLY OF-
CALOAIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)             9r.0         97.0        100.0/c               96.0        108.0        86.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                   66 .0       64.0         65 0Li               46 .0        60. 0        5 4. 0
0  WHItCH ANIMAL AND PULSE              .         28. 0L    ~                       10.0  c      la. 0 a     1 4.0 &
DE-ATH IATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                  t. ..                      .                                                ,, .
EDJCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                              ..         38.0 o      43.Ozg               Ss.          76.0       107.0
SECOWOARY SCHOOL                            .         15.0.                              9.0 La      0. 92.
TEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                                                                   0             4       2  0
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                  13 .0       13.0         1 3.0                15.0         1 3. 0      13. 0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(0 OF SECONDARY)                            ..           .0                             23.00         7.          54.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (I)                       ..         10. 0        10   a25.                        20.
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                  1 . 5 lae      .            ..                                          2.T
OCCUPIED DWELL1NGS WItHOUT
PIPEC  WATER (Z)                          i.                                                                        .04
ACCFSS TO ELECTRICITY                       1.    z.        ..                                ..                     00
(I OF ALL DWELLINGS)                     96 . 0                                           .                      24.0 /
RURAL OWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (2)
C04SJRPTION
RADIO iECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)              4P.0         69.0        67.0                 78.0         17.0         77.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                6.0          9. 0         9 .0                 5.0        10. 0        1 3.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)                41 .0        703.0       92.0                338. 0       120.0        155. 0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                    0.0I         0.1I         0.1I                 0. 4        0.2          0. I
SEE NOTES AND OEFINTTIONS ON REvERSE



ANiPEX I
Page 2 of 4 pagas
Un1... oth.-~ise noted, dots 'for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 bet-een 1960 and 1970, and for Moat R.eet gEtmiate between
1973 sod 1973.
- Tun.isi has bean selected as an objective coutry bec.use of see smilarity of its econo my with the Senegal... asc.onins, including favorable
prospects for the development of fiaharies end touris..
SENEGAL               1960     Ia  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor forces         lb  Population;    /c   1963;   /d   1962,
go.vernmet hospital eatabliahmsemt.; /s Total, urban and rural; If 19355 dota are for actoune of Debar
only end refer to Zurope4n-type dwslLnge; /a Inside only.
1970 Is Ratio of population .nder 15 aed 63 end over to total labor farce; /b Governmsent hoapital e.t.bliaixaents;
771 196.4-66;    /d  Unadjus ted    /s  Lowr secondary level.
MOST RECENT iSTI)IATE, /a 1972; /b fovertesnt hospital est.bliishenta; /c 1969-71 average; /d 1971.
OHMAC                 1970     /a  Ragisnared only;     /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country;       j    1966-68;   /d   6-15 and lb-2i yasre of
aeg respectively.
IVORY COAST           1970     /   D ue to isssigration, growth rats is higher than rate of ntutral increase        /b   1965-70;    Ic  Ratio of population
under 15 and 65 end over to total labor force;       /d   Covernmnt only;     I    1964-66;    If  12-i8 years of age.
TNINS9A               1970     /   1956-66;    /b  1966;    /c  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ove      to total labor force;     /d   Incoee racn-
pi.nte; /s. Covering 4 .5milion bectarom of private land. socluding 0.8 million hectaras in public ownrship,
and 2.1 million hectares of collective land;       /f  Personnel in government services only;       /A  G-srnsan.t
hospit.,al etablishments only;     /b  1964-66;    Ti  Registered only;      i. OWe to emigration, growth rate is lower
than rate of natural increase.
RS, August 10, 1976
DEFINITIOSR OP SOCIAL ISNDICATMRR
Land Area (thou ho2)                                                                   Ppuplation nr nursin     person - Population divid.d by number of practi-
Total- Total eurfaco urns coprising land urea und inland watoer.                          cing male and female graduate nuroses, "trained" or --certified"
Agric     M..un  r ...nt ..s.tijuaof agricultur  alrersaeod temporrily or                 nurnos, and auxiliary praocnnt1 with training or 01pcr iuncn
per.nanntly for crops, pastures, narket 4 bitchen gardens or to lits                 Popultion par hoo,pita1 bed - Population divided by nmber of hospital
Sallow.                                                                                beds avilable in public and Private general and specialloed hospital
and rehabilitatston centors; occludes nursing homes and establishments
GNP par canita (US55) - GNP per topics estimates at current macbet prices,               for custodial and pr-evntive care.
c-1cultod by same convorsion mothod as World Banb Atlas (1973-75 basis);             Per capita supply ofclro         (7. of renuiromonts) - Computed from
1960, 1970 and 1975 duts.                                                              energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country par capita
per day; available supplies comprise do..estic production, imports less
Poowulatio,,n an  vitaI ntatietic                                                        exports, and changes.In stock; net supplies occlude animal feed. seeds,
P.            I,tom  o _-v. nilion  - As. of 1.uy first:  if not available,              qanities.aced In fod peoce...ing and loec         i   distributtion; require-
-average of two nmd-yor eatinates; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data..nente were ostineted by PAO based on Physiological nee ds for noma
ac.tivity and healthu considering enyiroomenta1 temperature, body .eights,
Pouato tdniy - pr -eur. kn      Mid-year population per square kilo-             ageand so, distributions of populstion, and allowing 107. for waste
Population density - nor sousr. bn oftsrin.      Cad    -Coputed as above for          Par -ay=a spply of protein (aos        or o-      - Protein content of per
agiutrlelnd only,                                                               capita net supply of food por day; net supply of food.is defined as
above; requir-oeto for all -ontri.o established by SOD cSnonoi
Vital statlatics                                                                         ie...arch Services provide for a minimum allowance of 60 grams of
Crude birth rate per th.ousnd, average - Annual live births per thousan.dtotal protein par day, and 20 gross of animal and pulse protein, of
of nid_year popula'tion; ton-yeur    rilthuetic arge      ending in 1960 and           which 15 gross should be unima1 protoin; thoae standards are lower
1970, and five-year average ending in 1975 for most rec..ntesnao                       then chuee of 75 gross of total protein and 23 gras of animal Iprotein
Crcd   death rate per thoueand. nurueAnul deathe par thousan.d of mid-                   as an average for the world, proposed by PAl in the Third Wo rld Pond
yer pplain;tn-er               thsic average      eningtin 1960 end 1970 and           Survey.
fiv-yer aerae  eding in i97h for most rcnt estimate.                           Per capita protei n ooolY iron animal and p.l.e - Protein supply of food
Infant  -otailty rat     /thou) - Annual deaths of infants     ne    n    erderndfo                     nml      n   uesin gross per day.
ofaepr thouad live birtha,                                                      Death rate (/thou) aces 1-4 - A.nnai deaths par thousand in age group
Life one-tancy-at birth (yr.) - Average number of years of life revels-                  1-    er,t       hlrni        hnage group, suggontod as an indi-ntor of
ing at birth; usually flo_-year over aseu endin insI1960. 1970 and                     malnutrition.
1975for developi ng c..unriree
Dro.. rnor.d-ction rate - A-erg      number of line d-ughtere a women will             Education
hear,in her normal reprocductive period if she n.aptientes present age-              Adluoate.dte-cl1neot ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all ages as
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   percntaeof primary school-age population; includes children aged
1970 and 19 75 for devoloping countries.                                               6-11 years but adjusted for different lengths of primary education;
Population -roth rats %(')-tota       - Conpound annual groth rates of mid-              for contries with universal educa.tion, enrollment no y roceed 1007.
year population for156, 1960-70 and 19 70-_75                                          oince   ...e pupils are below or above the official school age.
Population growth rate (7.) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total               Adjus.ted.enrollme,nt ratio -saecondar   school - Computed as above;
population; different definitions of urban sreao nay affect compara-                   asoodary education requires atleast.four.years of approved primary
hiityof dat  amon   contries                                                     instruction; provie     geerl     vctional or teacher,traini ng
Urbn  opuaton  7.of  otl)    Rtio of urban to total population;                     intutosfor pupils. of 12'to'17 Yeaso             age  corsodenc
different definitiona of urban areas nay affect cops-ability of data                   courses are g,one,rrelly Oc,cluded.t
aogcountries                                                                      Years of shoing prvdd (fIrs           and second ievels) -Total years ci
AA,  t1111r,lpr,nt)- Children    0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years)            ochooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction eay be par-
and retired (65 Ysre andpoor ) as parcantoesn of eid-year population.                  tie11y or completely eldd.
Aoo dependency rati    -ltoofpplto             une    15ad6adevro                      Voca.tional enrollment (7. f secondary) - Vocational inetitution.
thoee of egos 15 through 64.                                                           Inc lude technical, industrial or other programs whichioperate
Econo.ic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 end 65 end over                  independently or as doeprtments of secondary in tit tione.
to the labor force in ae. group of 15-64 yeare.Adult literacy rate (7.) - Literate aduta (abl e to reed and write) aso
ynl:cly olann ino    ... tcnra  cmuaiv,thou) - Cumultive nubor of                         percentage of total adult population aged 15 yours and ooer.
accetors of birth-controlI devicen under aunpicos of nationsl_faily
planing program since in.ptio.nRusn
Family Yplanning     .. usrs (2 of married wmn      Per-ntaRee of married              Prospar room (urban) - Avoragv numbor of persons per rone in
women of child-beaning age (1!;      yearn) who use birth-control devices              occupied conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude
to  ~almarried  woe     0en      g   roup.                                             oon-permeont structureg aed un ccupied parts.
Occupied doel1iso   without piped watr(7) - Occup Ied nonvestional
Enpl.y-ent                                                                               dwellings in urban and rural -arane     itheut in-ide or outsIdepiped
Total labor force (thousa.nd) - Econo.icaily active persona, including                   water facilities as percentaga of all occ.upiead dwellings.
arned forces an.d unemployed hut excluding,housewives, students, etc.;               Acces   to electricity (7. of all dwelling.) - Conventional dwellings
deflniction  Ivrious cetesare net coparable,                                           with electricity ie living quarters as percent of total dwellings in
Labor force in Ra   i-ltture (7. - Agricu1tnra1 labor f0rce.(ie faming,                  urban and rural areas.
forustry, huntIng end filabiog) as pretg         of total labor force.               Rural d.ellinae connected to el1-tricitv (7. - Computed aso above for
inm vd(7. of labor force)    Un_spioYd are   usuly defined as                      rural dwellings only.
persons who- are abeand willing to toan       ijob, out of a job on a
given day, romaind out of a job, and sebnog work for a specified                     Cnsmtion
minium  erio  no  oncedig on  wek; nay not he comparable between           Radio reevr        prto       o)-Altypes of rcIvers for radio broad-
coun tries doe to dif ferent deinitions of un_ployed and source of                      casts to general public per thouand of population; exc ludes
data, e.g., employment office statistics, eanpie norveys, compulsory                   unlicensed raeievore in countries and in years oboe -egltretion of
unosploynent inaurance.                                                                radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may not be comparable
sic  at c.ontriss abolished lice,nsig
IncmeDitrioton- Percentage of private income (both in c.ah and                    P.aaomas     cr (prthou con) - Pasoangs        aecmrl       onrcr
kind) received by richest 57., richest 207., poorest 207., and Poorest                  aesting lees than eight persona; eacludes ambulances, hearses an1d
407. of ho....ho ds.                                                                   military vhbIcle..
Electricity (boh/yr Per cap) - Annuel consumption of Industrial, con-
Distribution of land ownerehip - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest                 mercial,,.public and private elsectricity in kilowatt bour. per capita;
107. and poorest 107. of land overs.                                                   generally based on production data, without allowance for lossin
gride  ut alowingfor imports and exports of el ectricity.
Health_and____tri___                                                                    Heo-orint (kg/yr pe   ca)- Per capita annual consuption in kilogramsu
Population per physician _Population divided by nuber of practicing                       estimated from domestic production plus net importe of newsprint.
physicians qualified froe a medical achool at ..iver.ity level.



AN'NEX I
ECONOI~~~C DEVEIJ)P~~fr DATA ~Page 3 of 4 Pages
(TmouMs inmillin      f .     dollara;
Actual               Saime           1j,j         19 70   19 73     19 75
19 70                         19~ 751930                 19)73   _1i4 5    19 80             L       A%0IL~   19 80
NATTONA.L ACCOUNTS               Annul dt     t      197       Prices & Exchange Rate.;      Average Annual- Growth Rates       As percent of GDY
1. Giross Domestic Product           551                 7W        950J4   1035.   tIT          -0.3       5.7      .3            99.7    10.      172
2. Gains from Terms of Trade_(+)       2.8  - 17.0      639                  57.   -1.8                                            0.       -05     -.
3. Gross D~omestic Incom   (1+                         9    .9     5:5      978.3  1129.9       -1.1       6.6     3.010.                 100      100
4. Import (inck. NSF)                306.5   301.3     308.6       297.4    324.5   357.3       -0.5     - 0.7     3.7            34.5      30.5    31.6
5 . Exports   "(import capacity)     262.0   215.4     121         267.3    276.4   29] .        -6.2     IC0. 6   1.7            29.       274     25.8
6. Resource GaP     (4 - 5)           44.5    83.1        8.3       30.1     48.1    66.o                                          5.0       3.1     5.8
7. Consumption Expenditures          815.0   807.9      843.9      862.4    884.2  lo011. 4      -0.3      3.3     3.2             91.8     88.4    89.5
A. Investment       (incl. stocks)   117.5   135.0      i45.8      113.3    1.42.2  184.5         4.8      3.0     5.2             13.2     14.7    16.3
0. Domestic Savings      (8-6)        72.8    51.6      137.5      113.2     94.1   118.5       -12.1     48.3     0.9              8.2     11.6    10.5
10. Rational Savings                   93.0    71.1     i46.6       119.6     93.5   120.2        -9.4     29.6     0.1            10.5      12.3    10.6
MERCHANDJISE TRADE                         Annual Data at Current Prices                                                       As Percent of Total.
Tmports
Capital goods                   43.6     77.3      90.6      108.7    140      205         21.0     i8.6     13.6            22.5     18.7     21.3
Intermediate goods (=L.fuels)   41.1     67.7     100.3      158.8    131      210         18.1     56.3     5.7             21.2     27.3    21.8
F'uels and related materials    10.9     23.6      64.8       69.1     76      123         29.5     74.0    12.2              5.6     11.9     12.8
(mostly crude oil)
Cosmtion goods                       91 4     210.7      244.8     305     424         24.9      13.1    i1.6            50.      4;1 1     4
Total March. Imports (cif)  193.9  3 03   ~      ~      ?      5        6                    7   ~   1.             100.0    100.0    100.0
Exports
Oruomdnuts                      73.6    68.6     141.3      188.2     248     230         -2.3      66.0     4.1            48.5      38.6    42.1
Phosphate                       119     22.2     103.7      103.7      69      84         23.2    116.0     -4.1             7.8     21.3     15.5
petroleum products               4.2    11.4      22.1       32.1      13      10         39.7     68.5   -21.3              2.8      6.6     .1.8
Other                           62.2     46      14 9.9     16.      .1153    ?9.1        15.0     31.3      6.1            40.9 )     l      40.3
Total March. Excports (fob)     t5Tg    19~6f    7   0       I(87U    47~       4                   57.5     2.2            100.0    100.0    100.0
Tourism and Border' Trade                                                                   9.
Merchandise Trade Indices                    Average 1971       100 (in USe)
Export Price Index              91.6   121.5      221.3      183.7    159.8   195 5
Import Price Index              90.5   128.7     194.3       185.5    l32:?   24.
Terma of Trade Index           101.2    94.3      113.9       99.0      2      78.4
Exports Volume Index           135.9   103.9      122.4      1.55.4   191.6   202.3
VAUJE ADDED BY SEC'TOR (at f.c.) Annual Da,ta_atII~l      Prices and Exchange Rates          Average Annual Growth Rates       As Percent of Total
Agriculture                    222.7   1,87.0     227.1      267.1    291.0   328.0        -5.7     19.5     4.2             28.5     30.3    O9.8
Industry and Mining            173.3   175.1     199.3       212.2    230.0   305.3        0.4      10.0     7.5             22          0     77
Service                        )8,               ',.s84- 4.)           In.42   jk6I.-       1.4      0.2     3.04.                   3L          5
Total                          781.5   764.5     811.1       882.9    9141.5  1101.2       -0.7      7.4     4.5            100.0    100.0   100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                 Fiscal Year  (Jl     /Jm    O' in billions of current CPA Francs                                  As Percent of GDP
(Central Goverrnment)          1C7/3     17/4       17/75     19'757    1976/77  1980/81  727    to7/57/j~98                   173     17      95 
Current Receipts                55.1    55.'.     7"1.3       90.(     89                  1~49520.3                                19.9   19.2  18.
~Tnt        i~tures          50.8   44%7        67.5       796      83                  15.3             10.5             18.4   17.5   16.8   17.0
other Pablic Sector              2.4     7.2       0.3         5.5      5       7                                            1.8     1.1    0.7   1.0
Public Sector Investment        15.0    20.4      26.6        32.7     38      60         33.1              14.5             6.5     7.0    6.8   8.3
CURRENT EXCPENDITUTRE DETAILS (Central GvtI.)        Actuials                Eat.        DETAIL ON                                  US______ million___
(As   Total Current Exend.)                                         Ls97/7 L174/5 1,57  PUBLIC SECTOR                     Thir  Pla      5 of TotaLl
Education and sports                      21.9    22.4      22.9      22.1    21.9     INVESTMENT PROGRAM                  (      19 9/o -172 fl3 )
Other Social Services (Health)             8.5     8.2       7.8       7.2     7.2     Social Sectors                        24.3            11.3
Agriculture                                5.7     5.6        4.9      4.5     4.6     Agriculture6.42.
Other Economic Selyces                     7.9     7.5       7.7       6.9     6.9     Inldustry and Mining                    .                1
General Services2.                        4o.4     39.1      38.9     3891    40 6      Water Supply                          24.8           11.5
Other                                     15.6    17.2       18.9     20.4    18.8      Transport and communications         45.4            21.1
Total Current Expenditures               I-        -        -        -        -        Other                                 43.1            20.0
10. 00.0          100.0    100.0    100.0     Tot-al Expenditures                  215.3          100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                              1960-      1965-    1970-    1975       FINANCING
(Calculated f'rom 3-year averaged data)          1965       1970     1975    10-
Average ICOR                                       =ti      10. 6     -6.9      .            Public Gector Savings             51.9            214.1
Import Elasticity                                   .         ..     0.h       0.3          Grants anaS Official Loans        125.753
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                      .                0.5       0.0          Loans fromPrivate Sources          3-              7
Marginial National Savings Rate                     .          .     0.3       o.o          Total Financing                   215.3           100.0
LABOR FORCE AN                            Total Labor Force                                    value Added Per Worker (19 71       Prices &Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER               In Millions         % of Total~:                         in U.S.Dollars      Percent or Avertge
D-Li          ~~19 71                                 ill                   2.
Agriculture                     0.8                 70                                   238.8                  36.6
Industry                        0.1                  8                                  1779.6                 273.0
Service                         0.3                 22                                     1Y213
Total.                          1.2                100                                   65s1.8                100.0
not applicable          nil1 or negligible       T/Registered trade only
not available        ..less than half the         2/ Border madea is not known separately, but is Included in the adjustments mAde on the
smallest unit shown           registered trade at the balAnce of payments.
~/Including General Administration, Defense, Jusstice and Police.
~/including investments financed under foreign aid.



Peg. 4 of 4 Pages
B   1E og PITS,2 384TD   L 31ASSIr I ASD DMU
(aset. IP ensts of U.S. eo     X at crent pfoe.)
Avg. Saa
Actual                          E.ti-ated                    rojtcted                               4th Bat.
1ru-         f173 1Y   4         19MU     1S77                       iX7 lf     lEn        1297   i     297        5-80
SUMARY UALANCE OF PAYIETS
Ep.rt. (i-l. NFS)                   256.8      230.8      535.4      555.5       601.2        676.6      642.1       685        720        774        857      22.6       4.8
nol. BPS)                 -276.3     -294.6     -373.3     -483.1      -690.3       -751.7     -   74o. 0 - 790       -8661      oS53       51L      22.2        6.9
-wsource balanro       i  X     -I           I) - 5 9.D _ D5.b -59.             9 - IZl    .t .. ... -12.1. _1-4L  X7 9  -4  15:;    20.2
btelroot (riot)                      -2.2       -1.7       -2.1       -          _.7                     -34         -23        -25        -26       -30       21.5      2.5
Direct I-,otloent I-one             -10.2      -10.7      -12.5      -16.4       -26.51       -35.9      -34         _30         23         -26       _0       21         2.5
Workoro' Reoitt-no                  -16.o      -15.5      -19.8      -18.0       -19.9'        -18.7     -22          _2         -24        -22       -26       3.2       6.8
Oterf.itor "V5'37.6"-                       A 8       10.9       10.0        lb 3s       12.6        12          -          iS         17        19      10.7       8.6
O     therc acr     t)               37.e       44e9       50 0       s4.8        64.o         62.1       54          5          S9         66         75      10.7       5.5
57.3  o   n   .9       20.0         rr                                          -ut nT r  -7 -1                            23.8      23.4
Private Diroct In-esetoat            -0.2        3.2        2.3      -14.8        -5.2        -14.0        4           8         15         20         21
Oftlcial Capita1 Greets              11.9       18.6        8.3       20.2        19.4         24.7       29          32         36         4         44      15.7      12.2
publit 21LT tao,-
Disabr-sootl                       18.6       23.2       18.5       99.2         47.3        72.1       93         113         144        180       200      71.1      22.7
a-R`-y olet                         -4.6       -7.8       -8.4      -22.4       -19.4        -20.3      -25         -55        _44         SO0       59       34.6      23.8
bet Di5.h,n- ,nt0 14.0                          Tr 4         1.      76.8        27.9         51.8       68          80        100        150        141      29.9      22.2
Othlr ILT Wccec
rkiobr-sto                         11.8        8.4       10.9                   34.7          --         __         __         __         __        __        __        __
-R   site                           -4.6       -8.1       -7.9      -27.8       -28.2        -2.7        A-          __         __         __         _        __        __
Not aMarooeMO                  o0r                         3-0        rr         -5r            rr7        6          .         5         -           -2 -6     _ 
Capitl _rancto      _.oi.            1569       -05        -7.9        3.4        22.3       -12.5         5                     --         --        _-        __        __
Ch_ege in Net Racers (toerocs +)    c25.        -0.7        2.2      -43.9        -L19 1.4                             6        iX2         'XS       v16       __
COANT AND LOAI; C0182ITMS                                                                                Bl    B B     OES5CB                           AoaI
pi loot: gret cad great-lOb         52 48     55                     55.8        519 4       564    Peblie Debt Out. &  sb-ur,ed    101)   19(1   1Y92    09(    19(i4      19(S
c~~i!2~~ ~~anntn           119~_      tO                    19.1       j            2.7                                                                  -__
00.00     end Br-nC-like           47         64.2       56.6       72          77.7        81.1     laterat rn Pebli. Dobt         1.4     4.4    4.6    7.2    13.6      17.6
rS8D  --   --  15.6   0.6         50         7.0      Repapestm BA Publie Bebt      .6      7.8   _8.4   22.4    19.4      20.3
f1...                               2.D.0                1.2        2.7          -           5.0      Total pobltDebt. Seance      6.0    12.2   10      29     330        7.
Aferican Dee. Iced                  2            - 7 0      2                    4.8         6.i      Otlor Debt Serile (nt)         8.s    8.2    8:4    29.7   33 1 y        5
Other MHlitioatrcl                   -         51.2       1.1        3.1         2.4         3.7      Total Debt Saries (fit)       14.0   20.4   21.4    57.5 / 66.1S     41.5
G-o-rne--nto                        4.6       10.1        14.3       64.6        41.5        42.9
Sappli-ra                           1.7        2.2         1.0       10.5        0.9 g        .     bbrd  n eP Eport BArni-se U)
Fin-ncial LCetitatieom              --        10.2        5.9       75.4         8.2        28.0
Poblie Debt Sc-ie.             2.2    5.3    3.9     8.3,   2.2       5.6
Total Debt Ssrivce             5.9    8.8     6.4   16.1 lil.oi        6.1
ToteS Febline 21415 teen.             b.4       37         49.1      177          i3S         7         TDScDlr.ct mast. Pas.        10.2    14.0   10.8    21.1 J 15.6 /   11:4
MUTERNAL LEbT                              Actal. Dlbt OCtota-dig e  P r1t                              Average Teas of Peblie Ddr-
ierId  0k                                                                                               Xntr at. - S Prior YTar DOD    1.6    4.2    3.6     5.2    6.7       7.3
CDA                                          43.9                    15.2                              Anort. -a S Praor las. 1DI4D   5.2     7.6    6.7    16.1    9.6       8.4
Othor tiltillterel                            8                       3.1
OGeorneeeto                                  9.6                     33.5                             IPRD Debt Out. & Di.burad
S    itonhiar                                14.3                     5.0                                  S O  Puiblc Debt D4D       2.2     1.8    1.7     1.4    1.4       3.5
Fiecacia1 Cnotitatlto-                      109 7                    38. 0                                 as S Publio Debt Seoiee     4.1    3.2     3.1    1.8    1.9       2.0
Se-d.                                         4.9                     1.7
Poblit  Dbtn e.Xb.i 
To tal Pblie HILT Dell                      9UXir                                                     1b Debt Bet. & Disbursd
TaS    PublmD Debt OD    A      8.5    8.4    11.4   10.2   13.0      15.2
-th.  S Public Debt Serata.     0 1    0.5    0.7     0.3   07        0.7
OIler YhLT Delta                             80.0-
Shert-t-r Dabt (di5b. aoly)
not epplicabl                                            e staff xstoesto
eet e.-i Jlab                                              - nil or nsgligible
not -eciloble ae.paately                                 -- lees titn half te.
but inlceded iP total                                        enlist tuit esoh



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of February 28, 1977)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan or                                                  (US$ Million)
Credit Number   Year   Borrower     Purpose            Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Three loans* and five credits fully disbursed          14.1   24.8
252-SE       1971    Senegal     Rice Development            3.7       0.1
253-SE       1971    Senegal     Technical and Agri-
cultural Education         2.0       0.1
254-SE       1971    Senegal     Settlement Scheme           1.4       0.2
835-SE        1972   Senegal     Railway              6.4              1.8
336-SE       1972    Senegal     Housing Site &
Services                   8.0       5.3
S-3-SE       1973   Dakarmarine Ship Repair            .5               -
866-SE        1973   OPTS        Telecommunications   6.25             3.0
366-SE       1973    Senegal     Highway Maintenance         8.0       1.6
404-SE        1973   Senegal     Agriculture Credit          8.2       1.2
446-SE       1974    Senegal     Drought Relief              3.0       0.4
987-SE        1974   SOFISEDIT   Development Finance 3.0               1.2
530-SE       1975    Senegal     Education                  15.0      14.3
S-18-SE        1975   Senegal     Irrigation Eng.             1.0       0.5
549-SE)       1975   Senegal     Agric. Diver-
1113-SE)                            sification         7.0    7.0      12.6
578-SE       1976    Senegal     Terres Neuves II            2.0       1.7
1221T-SE       1976    Senegal     Feeder Roads         6.6              6.2
1222-SE       1976    Senegal     Third Highway       15.0             13.8
633-SE**     1976    Senegal     Livestock                   4.2       4.2
647-SE       1976    Senegal     Second Sedhiou              6.3       6.3
1332-SE**      1976   SOFISEDIT   Second Development
Finance            4.2              4.2
Total,                                 63.05   94.6      78.7
of which has been repaid               8.8      .1
Total now outstanding                  54.25   94.5
Amount sold            3.0                       .1
of which has been
repaid                3.0                      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA***      53.75   94.4
Total Undisbursed                      37.20   41.5      78.7
*    A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969
was cancelled on March 25, 1971.
**   Not yet effective.
*** Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of February 28, 1977)
Amount (US$ Million)
Type of                          Equity
Year     Obligor               Business               Loan    Investment    Total
1967     Societe Industri-     Fertilizer             2.45       1.01         3.4.6
elle d'Engrails       Plant
au Senegal
1972)    Bud Senegal           Vegetable
1973)    S.A.                  Export                  -         0.87        0.87
19.76)
1974     SOFISEDIT             Development
Finance Company       -         0.21        0.21
Total Gross Commitments.                     2.45       2..09       4.54
Less Cancellations, Terminations,            1.99        .37        2.36
Total Commitments now held by IFC             .46       1.72        2.18
Undisbursed balance                           -          -
C. Bank and IDA
Projects in Execution I/
Cr. 252           Casamance Rice Project; US$3.7 Million
Credit of June 18, 1971; Effective January 6, 1972
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Project progress has been satisfactory, and production targets
established at appraisal have been exceeded. The project is finished, and
a completion report is being prepared. A follow-up project was approved
by the Board in June 1976.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
,the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. 253        Technical and Agricultural Education Project; US$2.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1971; Effective November 30, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
All components have been implemented. There was a substantial
cost overrun on the project, largely attributable to inflation as a result
of delays in design, as well as to currency realignments; the Government
has financed the overrun. A Project Completion Report is being prepared.
Cr. 254       Terres Neuves Settlement Project; US$1.35 Million Credit of
June 18, 1971; Effective January 31, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project's settlement program was completed on schedule as antici-
pated at appraisal.  The project has been successful in providing higher in-
comes than expected for settlers, and has attracted families with more adult
workers than originally anticipated.   Three hundred families have been settled
as envisaged, and there are about 2,300 people in the six settler villages.
The necessary social infrastructure is being completed.   Adequate and evenly
distributed rainfall ensured good crops during the last seasons.    Societe des
Terres Neuves (STN) (the State Corporation in charge of the project) is
taking measures to solve the problems relating to financial management, audit
and project monitoring. The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed shortly.
Cr. 314/       Second Railway Project:   US$3.2 Million and US$6.4 Million
Ln. 835        Credit and Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective December 29, 1972;
CIosn   Date:  Deceniber 31, 1977
The original project was substantially modified to reduce track
renewal works in favor of making funds available to purchase spare parts for
track laying and maintenance equipment and for locomotives. Track renewal
has now been completed, as well as procurement for workshop rehabilitation
and track equipment, and orders have been placed for locomotive spare parts.
Rehabilitation of workshops is now underway and is expected to be completed
by mid-1977. All material for modernization of freight cars has been ordered,
but the delivery time for some parts is extremely high, and delays in work
execution can be expected; according to the Railway's planning schedule, the
modernization program will probably not be completed before about March 1978.
As a result of sustained efforts by the Bank, a new General Manager has been
appointed, and a highly qualified French engineer has been recruited to fill
the new position of Deputy General Manager. Much improvement is still needed,
however, in management efficiency and training, and this will be the focus of
a proposed Third Railway Project appraised in February 1977.
Cr. 336        Site and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of
September 29, 1972; Effective August 31, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
Project execution is about six months behind schedule due to delay
in approval of contracts caused by lack of counterpart funds. However, a



ANNEX II
Page 4
first disbursement of counterpart funds took place in February 1977, allowing
work to resume. To speed up the completion of priority infrastructure, the
percentage of IDA fund disbursement has been temporarily increased frcm 45%
to 67%. This increase was made possible by the postponement of construction
of community facilities beyond June 1978; their construction according to the
October 1976 schedule was no longer justified in view of the slow pace of
plot occupancy. The percentage of IDA disbursement will be reduced after
June 1978 to a level consistent with the balance of IDA funds. Most of these
funds will then be used to help finance the construction of community facili-
ties which should be completed by June 1979. The project will continue to
receive close supervision.
Ln. 866         Telecommunications Project: US$6.25 Million Loan of December 19,
1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date:   December 31, 1979
Large cost overruns have raised the cost of this project from US$8.9
million at appraisal to US$20 million according to recent estimates. A co-
financing formula was successfully worked out which included a loan from the
French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) of US$4 million, new
French suppliers' credits of US$4 million, and an increased contribution
from the borrower, Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Senegal (OPTS).
The new financial package and conditions of the CCCE loan were accepted by
the Senegalese Government and the agreement would enable the project to be
completed as originally appraised. The impact of the additional investments
on OPT's financial position cannot yet be determined because the accounts and
financial statements have not been audited recently, and because OPT has not
introduced an analytical accounting system providing for separation of tele-
communications and postal/financial operations. The Commission des Comptes
is currently undertaking the first full-scale audit of OPT's accounts and
financial statements as of the end of FY 76. The Government has authorized
payment of arrears to OPT, but actual disbursement has not yet taken place
due to the weak financial position of the Treasury. As far as the physical
execution of the project is concerned, some progress has been made, but due
to uneven timing of the execution of different components, completion is not
now expected before mid-1979.
Cr. 350        River Polders Project; US$4.5 Million Credit of January 9. 1973;
Effective June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Procurement has been completed for the main components of the project,
and contracts have been awarded. Construction of works is progressing satis-
factorily. The Senegalese authorities requested that the Debi Lampsar com-
ponents of the project be dropped and reformulated within the broader framework
of integrated development of the Senegal River Basin; the proposed reformula-
tion was agreed upon by IDA, and an engineering project for Debi Lampsar was
appraised in December 1974 and approved by the Board in April 1975.. The Credit
was fully disbursed by end-March 1976. The Credit proceeds were not sufficient
to complete the project, despite the deletion of the Debi Lampsar component,
because of the effects of price increases, currency fluctuations, and addi-
tional works undertaken. However, Government is channelling about US$2.0



ANNEX II
Page 5
million into the project, and the implementing agency SAED (Societe d'Amenage-
ment et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta) is presently seeking about US$1.0
million in supplementary financing from Government to complete the final 500 ha
of the project.
Cr. 366        Second Highway Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of April 9,
1973; Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978
The project consists of pavement strengthening of primary roads,
implementation of a four-year maintenance program, and preinvestment studies
and a review of feeder road requirements. The strengthening program was re-
duced from 109 km originally scheduled to about 35 km due to construction costs
being much higher than estimated at appraisal, the effects of inflation, and
also because all the unallocated funds under the Credit were devoted to main-
tenance operations. Construction was satisfactorily completed early in 1976,
about 15 months later than anticipated. The highway maintenance program is
progressing, but well behind schedule, primarily due to the slowness of Govern-
ment services in implementing consultants' recommendations, as well as to the
shortage of supervisory personnel. The preinvestment studies for 228 km of
primary roads, and the review of feeder road requirements, were successfully
completed in mid-1975.
Cr. 404        Second Agriculture Credit Project; US$8.2 Million Credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977
The 1975/76 season was good: groundnut and cereal production
reached their highest levels since 1969. Results of the 1976/77 season are
not yet available, but fertilizer use did increase from 80,000 to about
100,000 tons. Demand for short and medium-term credit remained stronger than
anticipated, but available credit funds were sufficient to meet requirements.
Government is eliminating the subsidy on some farm implements, and reducing
the subsidy on fertilizers. The on-going study on fertilizer applications
financed under the Credit should provide a basis for policy review in due
course. Major organizational and financial problems still exist at ONCAD
despite technical assistance provided since 1969. Steps taken by Government
in early 1975 to remedy this serious situation--maintaining staff levels,
giving ONCAD management more financial autonomy, and strengthening it with
qualified accountants--resulted in some improvement, especially in accounting.
However, ONCAD's overall performance has not improved, and the organization
remains overstaffed. ONCAD credit requirements. attained record levels partly
because of accumulating operating losses, but mainly because of the large
groundnut and millet stocks and prolonged prefinancing for Government's
account.
Ln. S-3        Ship Repair Engineering Loan:   US$0.6 Million Loan of
September 20, 1973; Effective February 5, 1974; Closing Date:
September 6, 1977
The project consists of carrying out the following studies to deter-
mine the feasibility of a dry dock project:



LNNEX II
Page 6
a.   Technical studies including those of physical and
geophysical factors affecting site selection.
b.   Economic studies including a market survey, a re-
vision of the dry dock project feasibility study
and a survey formulating a training program.
The studies have now been completed; they indicate low economic and financial
returns, and a relatively high market risk. The Government is exploring pos-
sible financing and ways of reducing the market risk.
Cr. 446        Drought Relief Project; US$3.0 Million Credit of December 7,
1973; Effective February 5, 1974; Closing Date:  July 31, 1977
The project is part of the Senegalese plan to rehabilitate people
in drought-affected areas by helping them redevelop and improve their farms
and lands. Equipment and operating costs financed under the Credit have
enabled some Government services to achieve efficient performance levels, and
overall, the project is progressing satisfactorily. Areas destroyed by bush
fires in 1975/76 have decreased by 50% compared with the previous year, and
animal health services have been able to visit and vaccinate an increasing
number of animals, which reflect the reconstitution of the national herd
severely affected by the 1972 drought. Government and IDA are discussing
reducing the scope of the well digging program, the last component of the
project, and rescheduling its execution, since costs proved to be higher than
expected partly because works involved remote locations and difficult terrain.
Ln. 987        SOFISEDIT Project; US$3.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1974;
Effective November 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978
SOFISEDIT was created by the Government in March 1974 for the
purpose of providing long-term financing for development enterprises in
industry and tourism. To recruit the initial staff and to find office space
took several months, and the company did not start operations until November
1974. From its inception until June 30, 1976, SOFISEDIT had approved 19 loans
totalling about US$6.2 million equivalent, and five equity investments total-
ling about US$384,000 equivalent. The loan to SOFISEDIT was expected to be
fully committed by the end of 1976, and funds from a second Loan of US$4.2
million approved by the Board in September 1976 will become available for
disbursement in early 1977.
Cr. 530        Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 19, 1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
This project aims to help Senegal meet its modern sector needs
through rehabilitating existing vocational training schools, and providing
new ones, for industry, fishing and the hotel trade. The project also pro-
vides practical training for the rural population through an experimental



ANNE, II
Page 7
scheme of 30 village education centers, and creates science teaching facil-
ities for lower secondary schools as well as building four new schools.
Project construction is between 12 and 24 months behind schedule. The in-
dustrial vocational training center has been constructed and equipment is
being procured; the principal technical advisers are already engaged in
planning training courses with industry. Design work on the lower secondary
schools has been completed, and bids for construction have been invited.
Architects have now been selected for the hotel training school, and design
work by Unesco for the village centers has begun. Government has now
formulated specific technical assistance requirements for strengthening
the educational planning service, and recruitment is underway.
Cr. 549/       Sine Saloum Agricultural Development; US$7.0 Million
Ln. 1113       Credit and US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975; Effective
October 31, 1975; Closing Date:   June 30, 1981
The project aims at increasing and diversifying agricultural
production in the Sine Saloum region through strengthening the activities
of the Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agricole (SODEVA).
Activities under the project, including the setting up of extension ser-
vices, are underway as planned.
Cr. S-18       Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Engineering Credit, US$1.0 Million
Credit of May 22, 1975; Effective February 13, 1976; Clos-
ing Date:  December 31, 1977
The Credit finances execution of the engineering studies needed for
implementation of the Debi-Lampsar irrigation scheme. Despite delays in
effectiveness, the studies are now well advanced, and the original schedule
for project implementation will not be substantially delayed.
Cr. 578        Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical
Assistance Project, US$2.0 Million Credit of August 6, 1975;
Effective November 14. 1975; Closing Date:   December 31, 1979
The project includes resettlement of 600 families, and execution
of studies and surveys for a master plan for the Eastern Senegal region. The
settler recruiting campaign and initial land clearing have been undertaken as
planned.
Ln. 1221T      Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date:   June 30, 1980
The project consists of improvement and maintenance of 1,250 km
of feeder roads, purchase of highway equipment and spare parts, and tech-
nical assistance. The project is now in the very early stages of implementa-
tion. Government is about to award contracts for equipment procurement, and
is also in the process of establishing the administrative structure for main-
tenance operations.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Ln. 1222        Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31,
1976; Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of pavement strengthening of 204 km of pri-
mary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvestment
studies, highway maintenance, and to develop the domestic construction indus-
try. Government is now in the process of awarding construction and consult-
ants' contracts for 130 km of the pavement strengthening works, and for pre-
investment studies and technical assistance. The first 74 km phase of the
strengthening program carried over from the Second Highway Project (Credit
366-SE) is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. 633         Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit
of June 17, 1976; Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
The project consists of developing and operating a controlled
grazing scheme, and providing effective animal health, extension and credit
services to some 30,000 livestock owners. Prior to project effectiveness,
Government used about US$100,000 of the Project Preparation Facility accorded
by IDA. Government and SODEFITEX, the parastatal company charged with project
implementation, are continuing to prefinance the Project Unit. The 1976/77
vaccination campaign financed under the Project is underway; the first pastoral
unit has been established and livestock producers appear to accept the project
enthusiastically. Loan effectiveness has been slowed due to delays in the
loans of co-financers BADEA and the Kuwait Fund being made effective, but the
new date of May 15 is expected to be met.
Cr. 647         Second Sedhiou Project: US$6.3 Million Credit of June 25,
1976; Effective November 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
The project is the second phase of the Casamance Rice Project
(Cr. 252) initiated in 1971 in the Sedhiou district and now completed. The
objectives of the present project are to increase and diversify agricul-
tural and livestock production, and raise the incomes of the district's
rural population. The project would be based on improved farm practices
successfully introduced under the first operation.
Ln. 1332        Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of October 14,
1976; Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
US$4 million of the Loan amount would meet approximately two-thirds
of SOFISEDIT'S requirements for financing the foreign exchange component of
approved industrial and tourism projects through December 1978. The remain-
ing US$200,000 would be passed on to the Societe Nationale d'Etudes et de
Promotion Industrielle (SONEPI) to help develop an integrated scheme for pro-
viding assistance to small-scale Senegalese entrepreneurs. Effectiveness has
been delayed to correct a problem with designation of signatories to the Loan
Agreement.



ANNEX III
Page 1
SENEGAL
DAKAR FISHING PORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Senegal
Amount:              US$6.0 million equivalent
Terms:               The loan will be from the Bank's Third Window facility,
with interest at 4.20 percent per annum; the first re-
payment date of the Loan is January 15, 1983, and the
final maturity date is January 15, 2001. US$5.6
million of the Loan proceeds will be re-lent to the
Port Autonome de Dakar, the proposed executing agency
for the project for 20 years including 4 1/2 years of
grace, with interest at 8.20 percent per annum; the
remaining US$0.4 million will be used directly by the
Government for execution of the proposed fishing sector
study.
Co-Lenders:         Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA)
and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation EconomiFvue (CCCE).
Project
Description:         The major objectives of the proposed project are as
follows: (i) to increase the length of berth space
available at Dakar port so that all vessels associ-
ated with the industrial fishing industry can be
accommodated in one area of the port, and with suffi-
cient capacity to allow the fleet to expand without
restrictions at least until the end of the 1980's; (ii)
to provide essential waterfront land areas for the
repair of trawls and nets, for storage and maintenance
of fishing gear, ice plants, workshops, and administra-
tive offices for management of the industrial fleet;
(iii) to ensure that the maximum revenues are obtained
from landings and exports of fish and fish products by
application of effective control over fleet operations,
and the setting of adequate tariff structures; and (iv)
to study the requirements for handling future container
traffic at Dakar port, since this is the next logical
development at the port according to the existing
master plan; and to establish a coherent plan of action
for development of the fisheries sector over the next
ten years.



ANNEX III
Page 2
The main project components are as follows:
(i) civil works (including consulting services for
supervision) for: (a) construction of about 1,500 m
of new berth face; (b) reclamation of about 10.5 ha
of land; (c) paving of the reclaimed areas and
installation of ancillary services; (d) demolition
of the existing slipway and associated buildings;
and (e) construction of the main access road to the
proposed new fishing port.
(ii) technical assistance for (a) management, operations,
and planning for the fishing port; (b) introduction
of analytical accounting procedures and preparation
of a cost-based tariff structure; and (c) i-atroduc-
tion of an "ad valorem" tariff structure for fish
traffic.
(iii)  consulting services to: (a) study and define the needs
of the port of Dakar for handling container ships,
and to outline the development of facilities and
equipment required to handle future container
traffic adequately and competitively; and (b)
study in depth the current situation in industrial
and traditional fisheries and related activities,
and then establish a coherent plan of action for
development of the sector over the next ten years.
Project execution is scheduled to start in mid-
1977. The civil works items are expected to be
completed in about three years. Technical assis-
tance services will commence early in the project
period, and in the case of fishing port operations,
will continue for about one year after completion
of the proposed civil works. Selection of consul-
tants for studies will start soon after Loan
effectiveness, with actual implementation scheduled
to begin by September/October 1977 and to last about
six months for the container study, and about 18
months for the fishing sector study.
Estimated Cost:
The estimated cost of the project (including contingencies) is
US$24 million equivalent, with foreign costs of about US$10 million (40%).
The costs include about US$2.7 million equivalent representing two tax ele-
ments (turnover tax and licensing fees) from which the Government will not
provide exemptions, and which PAD will pay as part of its contribution to
the project costs. Details of cost estimates are shown on the following
page:



ANNEX III
Page 3
Percentage
of Total
Base Cost
(US$ million equivalent)
Local     Foreign     Total
1.   Civil Works
Lot I - Berth face construction     6.80       4.55     11.35      62
Lot 2 - Fill material               1.51       1.00      2.51      14
Lot 3 - Roadways; water, drainage,
electrical services; telephone
and fuel distribution       0.88      0.58       1.46       8
Lot 4 - Connecting existing
fishing berths              0.25      0.16       0.41       2
Lot 5 - Drainage Canal V            0.11       0.08      0.19        1
9.55      6.37      15.92-/    87
2.   Construction Supervision            0.37       0.37      0.74        4
3.   Technical Assistance
(about 135 man-months)            0.48      0.48       0.96       5
4.   Studies
(about 90 man-months)             0.16      0.64       0.80       4
Total Base Cost                    10.56       7.86     18.42     100
5.   Contingencies for Civil
Works
Physical (10%)                      0.95       0.64      1.59
Prices (average 22.5%)              2.36       1.58      3.94
3.31      2.22       5.53
Total Project Cost                 13.87      10.08     23.95-/
1/   Including US$2.7 equivalent in taxes.



ANNEX III
Page 4
Financing Plan:
The proposed financing plan is as follows:
(in US$ Million)
Costs                     Financing Arrangements
(including contingencies)               on Joint basis
Local  Foreign   Total     IBRD    BADEA   CCCE     PAD    GOVT.
1.  Civil Works            12.86-/  8.59    21.45     4.51     7.20   6.00     3.74-/  -
(including contingencies)
(3.31)  (2.22)  (5.53)
2.  Construction
Supervision           0.37    0.37    0.74      0.37      -      -      0.37     -
3.  Technical
Assistance            0.48    0.48     0.96     0.48      -      -       0.48    -
4.  Studies                 0.16    0.64     0.80     0.64       _     -       0.06   0.10
Total                  13.87   10.08    23.95     6.00     7.20   6.00     4.65   0.10
Percentage of Total Cost                              (25%)     (30%)  (25%) (19.5%) (0.5%)
1/   Including US$2.7 million equivalent in taxes.
Estimated
Disbursements:      Loan proceeds will be disbursed on the following
basis: (i) for civil works, 21% of total costs;
(ii) for consulting services for construction
supervision and technical assistance, 50% of total
costs (representing the estimated foreign exchange
component); and (iii) for consulting services for
studies, 80% of total costs (representing the
estimated foreign exchange component). The esti-
mated schedule of disbursements from the proposed
Loan is as follows:
(in US$ Millions)
FY 77   FY 78    FY 79   FY 80   FY 81
Yearly              1.37    2.52     1.29    0.73   0.09
Cumulative          1.37    3.89    5.18     5.91   6.00
Procurement
Arrangements:       Contracts will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guide-
lines. The proposed civil works were split into five
lots for tender purposess. Of the 25 contracting firms
which indicated interest in the project, 21 were pre-
qualified for all or some of the five lots. Contrac-
tors were invited to tender for all of the lots or for



ANNEX III
Page 5
a combination of lots for which they were pre-qualified.
Competitive tenders were received which were well prepared;
the lowest tender is about 30% below the consultants'
estimates at project appraisal. Contract awards will
be based on the lowest evaluated combination of bids, and
will be made only after the proposed Loan is approved.
Consultants for construction supervision, technical
assistance, and studies will be selected in agreement
with, and on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank.
Consulting
Services:           A total of about 135 months of technical assistance ser-
vices will be required as follows: (i) a total of about
48 man-months for the Fishing Port Manager and the Harbor
Master (36 man-months during the early stages of project
execution, and 12 man-months after completion of the civil
works); (ii) about 21 man-months for the Fishing Port
Planning Adviser to prepare the land-use pattern for
the reclaimed lands, and to make required adjustments
in the paving works and ancillary services; (iii) about
54 man-months of expert services to establish a system
of analytical accounting and of cost-based tariffs; and
(iv) about 12 man-months for an advisor on the application
of "ad valorem" tariffs for fish traffic.
About 30 man-months of consulting services for execu-
tion of the proposed container study.
About 60 man-months of consulting services to prepare
a plan of action for development of the fisheries sec-
tor.
Economic
Return:             The project is expected to yield an overall economic
return of 23%.
Staff Project
Report:             Report No. 1260a-SE, dated April 5, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: about 15 months - July 1974 to
November 1975
(b) Agency which prepared the project: PAD, assisted by consultants
(c) Project first presented to Bank: During final supervision of First
Port Project in July 1973
(d) First Bank mission to review project: Identification Mission in
January 1975
(e) Date of departure of appraisal mission: March 1976
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: March 1977
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: August 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Contracts for the project civil works will be awarded only after
the proposed Loan has been approved by the Board.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) all consultants and technical assistance experts will be selected
in agreement with, and on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank (paras. 40-43);
(b) details of all arrangements for project implementation and super-
vision (in which the Bank will have the principal role) as well
as outline terms of reference for the proposed consulting and
technical assistance services, have been agreed with the Government,
PAD, and the co-financers (para. 43);
(c) civil works contracts will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines (para.
48);
(d) PAD will implement an agreed plan which prescribes strict measures
to progressively reduce its level of accounts receivable to
acceptable limits by December 31, 1977 (para. 54);



ANNEX TV
Page 2
(e) PAD will revalue existing assets at least by the end of fiscal
year 1977/78, and thereafter as frequently as necessary at intervals
not exceeding five years, in consultation and agreement with the
Bank (para. 55);
(f) the Government will exempt PAD from paying income taxes during the
period of project execution (para. 56);
(g) the Government has provided assurances that it will take all neces-
sary measures to grant broader financial autonomy to PAD by June
30, 1977 or a later date as agreed with the Bank (para. 57);
(h) PAD, with the assistance of consultants, will implement a new
analytical accounting system and cost-related tariff structure,
and introduce an "ad valorem" tariff system for fish traffic,
by July 1, 1978 (para. 59);
(i) PAD will not incur non-project capital expenditure exceeding an
annual average of CFAF 500 million during the project period, unless
in consultation with the Bank (para. 60);
(j) PAD will achieve a minimum rate of return on net fixed assets in
use of 6% up to 1976/77, of 5.5% in each year until 1980/81
or until completion of the project whichever is later, and a
minimum rate of return from 1981/82 (or the year from which income
tax is levied for the first time) of 4.75% (para. 60);
(k)  PAD will maintain a working ratio not exceeding 60% until 1979/80,
and not exceeding 55% thereafter (para. 61);
(1) PAD will not incur any additional long-term debt, except in agree-
ment with the Bank, unless its net revenue is at least 1.5
times the maximum future debt service requirement (para. 61);
(m)  to help assure successful implementation of the proposed project,
the Government has agreed to undertake appropriate incentive measures
to assure the growth and modernization of the Dakar-based industrial
fishing fleet, and a continued increase in fish landings for pro-
cessing by local industries (para. 66).
A condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan will be the
fulfillment of conditions prior to effectiveness of co-financing agreements
with BADEA and CCCE.






t1R3 12251R
t                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOVEMBER IBE7 
S EN EGAL
j  YACHT CLUB                DAKAR    PROPOSED      FISHING    PORT PROJECT
Existing Port and Approaches
SHOWING ZONING
g g g  \         +    ~~~~~OLD SEAPLANE BASE 
BAS_ OI 5 N   |
lol/./c.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ro<<\Xr    e
1`PFLSIBE Wok. o .
P t Buomdo,y
FUS HINC                                     CAsEOG. BEa-do?,y
7   INDU~ *
ZONED         \     -
"2       0 ,0 600  00 3 000
INGN G   RECL.JM                         E
D A K A R
REPORTANCHRREA
t/<)  (       t~~~FOESERVEC' >    
%           FORE ~~~~~FUTURE   / J  s 
!)  &   COPERATIONS;                         A   N   C         H   AU R   A   G   E
tA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Dko,* Prol.ct Location ..
S     ENEGA G  AL
SEE              M~~~~~~~~ALI
GAMEBIA_
$1'                  <     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
GUINEA BISSAU IIANI
G    UI A 






IBRD 12252
JUNE 1976
MAURITANIA/\|
SENEGAL
DAKAR PROPOSED FISHING PORT PROJECT
NAVIGATIONcr,ll"  A >4   // /S o  zJ   IPROJECT DETAIL
^ 5 E N E G A L  )   /// &/ ~~~~O n NAVIGATIO0N AIDS 
MAINTENANCE  /
lLl\5SISSAUC                                                                   GUI\NE-A 2' /X<< w / # _ Project Works in Red
JKwIk  4orQ oe                                                           lAb do z1 -/// -& - - - ~~~~~ future Work or Under Construction
;_w  ol i- rbzrr bv hf   //pt   /    \        /  .t                             --    Port Boundary
Customs Boundory
O  20  40  60  t0  100  820  10
METERS
S, O. s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I- 
41 /1 1
TO  HINr,7. -                                                                                     N
N
Ne. Se1,.on of Berth  I                     ''
1/   /'         // //| TO EE DEMOLISHED  *   10 LL'k E..-sting Berths i
50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
/+  ///  ///            _   1 ~~~~~~~ ~    ~~~~Lot No. 4  
Reconstruction
0010s           Sectionof Canol Y/
--------  ------ I% TRASIs,       "Tidal Water
E%S  B S tsCirculation Channel
~~~ I~~~~ ~~~ ~TRANSI`   Al!     -
-   --  -D D  S- I - --*--  --
1SVH CHRO  LI TI  --Z -                                         Z--n
%\   <      8~~~ A S E  4 />       \_,
D A K A R \\fi/                              A       A                       -"



