Document of                    a
The World Bank
FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY                 FILE  C O P Y
Rqort Ne. 1260a-SE
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
DAKAR FISHING PORT PROJECT
SENEGAL
April 5, 1977
This documet bu a resotkted ditIbution *d may be used by reciplents only lu the performne of
their ofic  du". Its oentents my  ot otherwlse be disosed wiKot World Bank authoriuton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00:  CFAF 245
CFAF 1 Million: US$4,080
Fiscal Year of PAD: July 1 - June 30
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND M1EASURES: METRIC
Metric                           US Equivalents
1 meter (m)     3          -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m  )        -  35.29 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2   -  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )  -  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)       -  2,204 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)             -  2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BADEA          Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
BCEOM          Btreau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements d'Outre-Mer (France)
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CEP            Centre des Etablissements Publics
DOT            Department of Transportation
DPW            Department of Public Works
DSP            Directorate of Studies and Programming
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GRT            Gross Registered Tonnage
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOP            Ministry of Planning
MPWUT          Ministry of Public Works, Urban Development and Transport
NRT            Net Registered Tonnage
PAD            Port Autonome de Dakar
SCET-SONED    Societe Centrale d'Equipment du Territoire/Societe Nationale
d'Etudes de Developpement (France-Senegal)
SOSAP          Societe Senegalaise d'Armement a la Peche
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
DAKAR FISHING PORT PROJECT
SENEGAL
Table of Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY ......          ........... ..........           i-xv
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ......... . . . . . .  .................................... .  1
A.   General ........................................... e..............     1
B.    The Transport System ...           ............................        1
C.    Transport Planning and Coordination .               ...............    4
1I. THE PORT OF DAKAR ..................   6
A.    Port Facilities and Traffic ..... ............                         6
B.   Port Administration .    ......................                         9
C.    Accounting, Budgeting, Audit and Finance ...........                  10
III.    THE SENEGAL FISHING INDUSTRY ............................                   14
A.   Marine Resources . ................... *  .................            14
B.   Industrial Fishing ............. .....................                 18
C.    Government Maritime Fishing Policy              .................    21
D.    Fish Processing and Marketing ......... ..            ...........    25
E.    Fishing Institutions . ............................. .               26
F.    Training             ...........................................     27
IV.    THE PROJECT .............................................                   31
A.    The Port Master Plan ..............        ..     ...............    31
B.    Project Objectives and Description               ... .       .       31
C.    Engineering Evaluation    Eaat                           on............ ..............  35
D.    Cost Estimates and Financing             .......................      40
E.   Execution        ..........................................           45
F.    Project Preparation and Procurement              ................    46
G.    Disbursements ..... ............................      . .......      47
This report is based on information provided by the Port Autonome de Dakar
(PAD), and on the findings of an appraisal mission in April/May 1976 com-
posed of Messrs. J. Lethbridge (Port Engineer), J. Pelletey (Economist),
D. Screwvala (Financial Analyst), and R. Aubray and W. Goukian (consul-
tants, FAO).
This document hbu a restrictwd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the porformance
of their oMcial dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
H.   Environmental Impact . ............ . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  48
I.   Employment and Urban Impact .........           ..............    49
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION    .          .................. .......... .       50
A.   General.........................                                  50
B.   Traffic Forecasts  ........o .... . ....50
C.   Project Benefits ..................                     ....      55
VI.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION           ..............       ............        69
A.   Impact of the Project on the Government's Finances .               69
B.   Past Financial Performance of PAD .................               71
C.   Methods and Assumptions for Financial Analysis .....              73
D.   Forecast Financial Performance 1975-1983 ...........               75
E.   Cash Flow and Financing Plan                ...............       78
F.   Balance Sheets .         .......    . .    ..    ... .........    79
G.   Sensitivity Analysis         ..........     ..............        80
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................               81
TABLES
1.   Fish Landings in Dakar Port (Dakar-based fleets only)
2.   Fish Landings for Processing and Local Consumption
3.   Utilization of Landings
4.   Exports of Fish Products
5.   Estimated Total Costs and Benefits Streams
6.   Benefits for Senegal
ANNEX
Detailed Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
Location of the Fishing Port - IBRD 12250
Dakar: Proposed Fishing Port Project - Existing Port and Approaches -
IBRD 12251R
Dakar: Proposed Fishing Port Project - Project Detail - IBRD 12252



INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.        Senegal possesses a fairly well-developed transport system concen-
trated on the Cap Vert Peninsula (including the capital city of Dakar) and
the Groundnut Basin farther to the east, which are the areas with the larg-
est population and economic activity. Roads are the principal mode of
domestic transport, carrying about 75% of commercial inter-urban passenger
and freight traffic excluding phosphates. The railway system consists of a
main line from Dakar to Kidira on the Mali border, and several branch lines
including connections from Dakar to St. Louis in the north and to the Taiba
phosphate mine. Traffic at the Port of Dakar, mainly phosphates, petroleum,
general merchandise, and international traffic for Mali and to a limited
extent Mauritania, has doubled over the last ten years, and now totals about
5 million tons annually. Aviation centers on the Dakar airport, a major
international transit point for Europe-Africa-South America traffic. Three
secondary ports and 18 regional airports and airfields are located outside
the Cap Vert region.
2.        The Governnent's transport strategy aims essentially at: (i) deve-
loping local transport infrastructure in support of overall economic growth,
particularly in agriculture and fisheries and in the newly developing indus-
trial and tourism sectors; (ii) promoting regional integration, especially
to develop efficient transport links within rural areas, and connections with
East Senegal and the Casamance region in the south; and (iii) assuring
adequate maintenance for the already extensive investment in the sector. In
addition, Senegal will continue to provide neighboring landlocked Mali with
an efficient link to the sea, and to upgrade its own international transport
facilities in air, port, and railway services. The Government's ability to
do effective sector planning and coordination has been improved by the
creation in mid-1975 of the Directorate of Studies and Programming (DSP)
within the Ministry of Public Works, Urban Development and Transport. DSP,
with technical assistance financed by the Bank Group under the Third Highway
Project will execute economic and technical studies, and help to determine
strategy and investment priorities in the transport sector. The proposed
project for extension of the Dakar fishing port is designed to fit into the
Government's overall transport strategy, while at the same time addressing
some of the needs for development of the industrial fishing sector which has
so far been rather neglected.
3.        Bank Group operations in the sector have helped to establish the
basic transport infrastructure, and then to ensure its successful maintenance
and efficient use; the greatest activity has been in highways, particularly
in pavement strengthening and maintenenance operations, as well as feeder road
construction and improvement. Total lending in the amount of US$42.3 million
equivalent has helped finance four projects in the highway sub-sector, two
directed toward improving the physical infrastructure of the railway system
and increasing locomotive capacity, one in aviation for major improvements
to the Dakar Airport, and one for extension of a mole at the Port of Dakar,
reconstruction of two quays, and execution of a dredging program.



- ii -
The Port of Dakar
4.        The port of Dakar enjoys an excellent sheltered location free from
heavy swells and siltation. There are 46 well-equipped berths to handle
containers, general cargo, phosphates and groundnuts for export, oil and
petroleum products, and fishing traffic. Road and rail access to the port is
good. The general layout of the port is shown in Map IBRD 12251R.
5.        As a result of the very rapid expansion of the industrial fish-
ing fleet over the past ten years, there is now a severe shortage of berth
space for fishing vessels and for landing the catches, and commercial opera-
tions at the port are becoming seriously affected. Since traffic projections
through 1983 indicate a notable increase not only in overall dry cargo but
also in fresh fish and fish products, there is an urgent need for the proposed
project which provides for extension of the fishing port facilities and the
required organization and management services. The Government is studying
the possibility of constructing a new port at Sedar, about 80 km north of
Dakar, to handle imports of crude oil for a proposed new refinery, and
exports of phosphates, petroleum products, and possibly iron ore. These
studies are still only at a preliminary stage, but even if the port were
eventually built, revenues of the Dakar Port would be affected only minimally.
6.        The Port Autonome de Dakar (PAD) was formed in 1959, and since
1960 has been a public enterprise charged with operation and maintenance
of the port facilities, and responsible for improvement and expansion works.
Separate Government departments control health and immigration services,
police, customs, navigation aids, and railways within the port. Executive
functions are vested in the Port Director.   More substantive decisions of
the port's 17-member Board of Directors are subject to joint approval of
the Ministers of Finance and of Public Works, Urban Development and Transport;
tariffs on goods also require the agreement of the Minister of Industrial
Development.
7.        Management of the port is good, and technical assistance staff
are assigned and used effectively. Personnel, including expatriates, are
generally well trained. The port organization is satisfactory and works
well. There is however no special unit to manage and control fishing oper-
ations, and only recently has a system been instituted for recording the
movements of fishing vessels and evaluating landed catches. The proposed
project provides for the establishment and staffing of an appropriate or-
ganization within PAD to manage the new fishi.ng port.
THE FISHERY SECTOR
Marine Resources
2
8.        The continental shelf off Senegal covers an area of about 24,000 km
Oceanographic conditions along the coast are very favorable to marine life,
and allow abundant fish resources. The exploitation of these resources is
periodically reviewed by a Working Group on resources evaluation of the FAO



- iii -
Fishing Committee for the Eastern Central Atlantic. The reports of this Work-
ing Group provide up-to-date information on fish stocks, and make recommen-
dations on research programs to be undertaken. In addition, extensive studies
have been carried out by the Dakar Research Center of Oceanography with assist-
ance from the UNDP/FAO to evaluate fish stocks in the waters off Senegal,
Gambia, and Guinea Bissau, and to recommend the maximum feasible level of
catches. Current estimates indicate that a total of about 900,000 tons of
coastal pelagic fish, tuna, demersal and similar exploitable species can be
caught annually without depleting the stocks.
The Fishing Industry
9.        Over the past 20 years, Senegal has become one of the leaders of
fishery development in West Africa, and its fishermen among the most active
and successful in the region. This development has come about primarily
because of the existence within Senegalese territorial waters (recently
extended to 150 miles offshore) of a large fishing potential, and because
of the Government's efforts to strictly enforce the territorial limits.
Until recently, fish stocks off the Senegalese coast were exploited by
large foreign fleets not based in West Africa which usually ship directly
to consuming countries, and land only a small part of their catches for pro-
cessing in Dakar. Exclusive fishing zones are now established in accordance
with recent fishing agreements (see para. 15), and foreign vessels must now
land a large part of their catches at Dakar, and also pay tonnage fees on
volumes of fish landed.  Over the life of the existing fishing agreements (an
estimated average of about ten years), a total of about US$55 million equiva-
lent in loans and credits from various bilateral and multilateral donors is
expected to be generated, and a significant proportion of this amount will be
made available for investment in the Senegalese fishing industry during the
next develpment plan period 1977-81.
10.       The fishing sector contributes about 7% of GDP, although only about
one-third of the estimated potential catch in Senegalese waters is now being
landed. Approximately 75% of this catch results from the operation of about
4,000 canoes employing some 30,000 fishermen; this traditional fishing sector
has developed over recent years as a result of operations in various agricul-
tural and rural development projects financed by the Government and other
bilateral sources, particularly Canada and Denmark. Landings of the Dakar-
based industrial fleet account for the remaining 25% of total catch, mostly in
high-value species, and contribute approximately 4% of GDP and 9% of total
export value. Total landings of the Dakar-based fleet have been increasing at
about 18% annually from 16,000 tons in 1964 to about 80,000 tons in 1974.
11.       The rapid growth of the industrial fishing industry has resulted
in a serious shortage of berth space in the port of Dakar available for
fishing vessels. The proposed project would be a major step in expanding
port facilities so that Senegal can realize the important potential contri-
bution of the industrial fishing sector to the country's economic growth.
The Dakar-based fleet currently in operation consists of about 150 vessels,
about half of them Senegalese-owned.  The net fixed asset value of the fleet
is about US$25 million. However, many of the vessels are old and becoming



- iv -
uneconomical to operate, and major renewal is required with larger and more
expensive vessels with greater fish capacity, but requiring less maintenance
and smaller crews. Adequate financing for this renewal effort is expected to
become available within the sector from revenues derived from fishing agree-
ments with foreign fleets, as well as from profits from commercial fishing,
and through local commercial and development banks.
Fish Marketing and Processing
12.       The total amount of fish landed in Senegal in 1975 was about 300,000
tons (excluding landings by foreign fleets for temporary storage in Dakar before
re-export), of which approximately 240,000 tons were marketed fresh for local
consumption. About 80,000 tons were landed by the industrial fleet, and
almost three-quarters of this amount were processed for export, mostly to
Europe. Although there is a considerable demand for imports of fish products
in major West African countries, exports from Senegal have so far been limited
to about 15,000 - 18,000 tons a year, mainly to the Ivory Coast. The develop-
ment of Senegalese exports within the region has been hampered especially by
competition from foreign vessels, and by the lack of organization and govern-
mental support to Senegalese firms for export promotion. The Government
has taken several measures to help remedy these problems. Among the most
important is the recently established policy which allows fleets of West
African countries to operate in Senegalese waters if they open up their
markets to Senegalese fish products. Also, new joint ventures have been
created between Senegalese and Ivorian firms for marketing Senegalese
products in the Ivory Coast. The proposed project provides consulting ser-
vices to establish a plan of action for development of the fishery sector;
this is expected to include a study of posible new markets for high-value
species particularly in Europe and Japan and for other species of pelagic
fish on the West African market, and to recommend measures for assuring
development of these markets.
13.       There are 23 major fish processing plants with a total raw material
capacity more than double their present output. In 1975, net fixed assets of
the processing industry amounted to about $14 million, and total turnover of
the processing plants at Dakar was about $42 million, of which about 75% in
frozen fish, 20% in canned products, and 5% fishmeal.
Sectoral Policy
14.       The Directorate of Fishery and Oceanography within the Ministry
of Rural Development is charged with implementing Government policy in the
sector; it is particularly responsible for preparing projects, negotiating
fishing agreements, and operating coastal patrol vessels to enforce fishing
regulations. The Senegalese Navy is responsible for control of the terri-
torial waters, and the Merchant Marine for vessel registration, maritime
labor, and safety at sea.



15.       In addition to the traditional agreement with Gambia which pro-
vides reciprocal fishing rights between the two countries, the Government
of Senegal has passed a variety of laws in recent years to permit better
preservation of fish resources in its territorial waters, and to promote
the development of a dynamic domestic fishing sector through a liberal
policy concerning foreign and national private investment. The policies
regarding fishing operations in Senegalese waters differ as between develop-
ing and developed countries. Fleets from West African countries south of
Guinea where fishing is limited are allowed in Senegalese waters on condition
that the vessels are based at Dakar and land their catches there, that they
invest in processing plants, and that their markets be open to Senegalese fish
exports without tariff discrimination. Fishing agreements with developed
countries are entered into on a selective basis, with priority given to those
which have traditionally participated in Senegal's economic development.
Agreements include fees for catches not landed in Senegal, special import
tariffs for fish products re-exported from Dakar to the home country, and the
creation of joint ventures to develop the Senegalese fishing industry.
Since the establishment of this policy, several countries including Japan,
Spain, France, Italy, Kuwait, and Poland have entered into agreements, and
most of them now have fleets based in Dakar.
16.       Agreements now being negotiated with foreign fleets will de-em-
phasize the policy of "fishing royalties" and will instead require direct
investments in Senegal. Attempts will be made to develop joint venture
enterprises in which Senegalese would own a minimum of one-third of the
capital, and would be associated with management. Further, a concentrated
effort will be directed to developing Senegalese enterprises sufficiently to
enable them to compete with foreign corporations in fishing and processing
activities, and in marketing of export products. The proposed extension of
the Dakar fishing port, and planning and management of its operations, would
provide the infrastructure needed to help the Governnent fulfill its primary
objective of increasing its share of the value-added of fish caught within
Senegalese territorial waters.
Training and Technical Assistance
17.       Training of fishermen and ship mechanics has increased signifi-
cantly over the past 15 years, but existing programs need to be improved
and expanded. The Government is alert to the training requirements to service
the expected rapid development of maritime fishing over the next decade, and
intends to develop training in the sector at several levels: college and
university, and post-university training in management and specialized fishery
activities which is presently non-existent; professional training at the
Nautical College of Dakar (where some technical assistance and equipment
purchase are being financed under the Association's ongoing Second Education
Project) and at the School of Fisheries Administration; vocational training to
develop technicians and mechanics in artisanal fishing activities; and manage-
ment training for officers for four or five new secondary fishing ports which
the Government is planning to develop.



- vi -
18.       For the proposed project, it is planned to establish a separate
organization within PAD responsible for management and operation of the fish-
ing port, so as to assure adequate control and development of the industrial
fishing sector, and to derive as much revenue as possible from activities at
the new port. PAD personnel for the various management-level positions re-
quired will be trained by technical assistance experts to be provided by FAO.
THE PROJECT
19.       The first Dakar Port project (Loan 493-SE, US$4.0 million, 1967) was
designed principally to restore and expand existing general cargo-handling
facilities; the project also included important financial and institutional
objectives relating to port organization and operations, and for improvement
of the accounting system. The project was implemented satisfactorily and
almost exactly as conceived, with final costs approximately 15% lower than
appraisal estimates. During final supervision of the project in mid-1973, the
proposed operation for extension of the fishing port facilities was identified.
Description
20.       The project consists of:
(i) civil works (including consulting services for supervision) for:
(a) construction of about 1,500 m of new berth face; (b) reclama-
tion of about 10.5 ha of land; (c) paving of the reclaimed areas
and installation of ancillary services; (d) demolition of the
existing slipway and associated buildings; and (e) construction of
the main access road to the new fishing port (see Map IBRD 12252).
(ii) technical assistance for (a) management, operations, and planning
for the fishing port; (b) introduction of analytical accounting
procedures and preparation of a cost-based tariff structure; and
(c) introduction of an "ad valorem" tariff structure for fish
traffic.
(iii) consulting services to (a) study and define the needs of the
port of Dakar for handling container ships, and outline the
development of container port facilities and equipment required
to handle future container traffic adequately and competitively;
and (b) study in depth the current situation in industrial and
traditional fisheries and related activities, and then establish
a coherent plan of action for development of the sector over the
next ten years.
Execution
21.       Detailed engineering, preparation of tenders, and evaluation of bids
for the proposed civil works have been completed by consultants BCEOM (France)
with PAD financing. Consultants for supervision and control of the works



- vii -
will be selected in agreement with, and on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank. The consultants will be expected to work in collaboration with
PAD's engineering staff so that the latter can receive the maximum training
and experience from being closely involved in implementation and supervision
of the proposed works. Civil works are expected to start in mid-1977, and
to take about three years to complete.
22.       Management and operation of the fishing port will be by PAD per-
sonnel trained to fill the various positions required. The required train-
ing will be carried out during the project construction period and for about
one year after the start of fishing port operations by experts provided by FAO
and financed under the proposed Loans. Technical assistance for the introduc-
tion of analytical accounting, preparation of a cost-based tariff structure,
and introduction of an "ad valorem" tariff system for fish traffic will be
provided either by a consulting firm or by individual experts selected in
agreement with, and under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
23.       The proposed project provides about 30 man-months of services over
six months for execution of a container study by consultants who would be
expected to: (a) study current and projected container traffic for the West
Africa coast, and determine what proportion could pass through Dakar port; (b)
determine the scope and timing of facilities and equipment required to service
this traffic; (c) prepare detailed cost estimates and an economic and financial
justification for the proposed facilities, with recommendations regarding
management and tariffs; and (d) update the existing port master plan to
include the proposed facilities and the areas zoned for the fishing port,
containers, and other developments.
24.       The proposed project also provides about 60 man-months of consulting
services over approximately 15 months to carry out a fishing sector study.
Consultants will be required primarily to: (i) identify and define the dif-
ferent types of fishing activities in the country and carry out technical and
economic analysis of each, as well as a critical analysis of the possibilities
for development taking into account particularly available resources, markets,
and other relevant technical, sociological and economic factors; (ii) carry
out an inventory of equipment used in the fishing sector (ships, freezing
equipment, factories, etc.) and analyze their productivity levels; (iii)
analyze domestic and export markets for fish products, and study possible new
markets for high-value fish for example in Europe and Japan, and for other
species in the West African region, and measures required to assure their
development; and (iv) study the organization and functioning of different
services responsible for the administration, control and planning of fisheries
activities, as well as those of research institutes, training centers, and
other agencies offering credit or other assistance to the fishing sector.
More generally, the consultants will be expected to evaluate the various pro-
grams and development projects in the sector either underway or planned, to
study the functioning of fisheries cooperatives and propose a system which
could work effectively, and investigate the socio-economic context in which
both the industrial and the traditional fishing sectors operate. It is ex-
pected that the required services will be provided by one or more consulting
firms, and will eventually be completed by other specialists on short-term



- viii -
assignments as required. On the basis of the broad lines of their analysis as
outlined above, the consultants will be expected to make realistic recommenda-
tions for the preparation and implementation of a coordinated plan of action
for development of the fisheries sector over the next ten years. The above
outline terms of reference have been agreed with the Government.
25.       Details of all arrangements for project implementation and supervision
(in which the Bank will have the principal role), as well as outline terms of
reference for all the proposed consulting and technical assistance services,
have been agreed with the Government, PAD and the co-financers.
Cost Estimates and Financing
26.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at $24 million
equivalent, with foreign costs of about US$10 million (about 40%). The costs
include about US$2.7 million equivalent representing two tax elements (turnover
tax and licensing fees) which will be paid by PAD as part of its contribution
to the project costs; the Government has agreed to exempt the project from
all other taxes, as well as from customs duties on imported materials and
equipment. PAD will also have to pay interest during project construction
estimated at US$3.31 million equivalent. The above cost estimates also include
a 10% physical contingency allowance on civil works items, as well as price
contingencies averaging 22.5% over the project period based on assumed annual
increases applied as follows: 1976, 13%; 1977-79, 12%; and 1980-81, 10%.
27.       Costs for civil works are based on consultants' recommendations fol-
lowing the evaluation of tenders received in September 1976. The relatively
low foreign exchange cost is due to the fact that the contractor submitting
the lowest tender is locally based, and also because of the expected predomi-
nant use of local materials in the construction works (para. 30).
28.       Costs for technical assistance services (about 135 man-months) have
been estimated on the following basis: (i) a total of about 48 manmonths for
the Fishing Port Manager and the Harbor Master; (ii) up to 21 man-months for
the Fishing Port Planning Adviser to prepare the land-use pattern for the
reclaimed lands, and to make required adjustments in the paving works and
ancillary services; (iii) about 54 man-months of expert services to advise on
preparation of analytical accounting and of cost-based tariffs; and (iv) about
12 man-months for an advisor on the application of "ad valorem" tariffs for
fish traffic. A cost of about US$8,000 per man-month for expatriate experts
(including direct and indirect costs) has been estimated for the proposed
technical assistance and consulting services for the studies, based on current
costs for similar expert services in other projects in Senegal and in West
Africa generally.



- ix -
29.       A summary table of cost estimates and the proposed project financing
plan is shown below:
(in US$ Million)
Costs               Financing Arrangements
on joint basis
Local  Foreign  Total      IBRD  BADEA  CCCE       PAD   Govt.
1.  Civil Works       12.86/1  8.59   21.45       4.51  7.20    6.00    3.74/1  -
(including con-
tingencies)      (3.31)  (2.22)  (5.53)
2. Construction
Supervision     0.37    0.37    0.74       0.37   -        -       0.37    -
3. Technical
Assistance       0.48    0.48    0.96      0.48   -        -       0.48    -
4.  Studies            0.16    0.64    0.80       0.64   -        -      0.06  0.10
Total            13.87   10.08   23.95       6.00  7.20    6.00    4.65  0.10
Percentage of Total Cost                         (25%) (30%)   (25%)  (19.5%)(0.5%)
/1   Including US$2.7 million equivalent in taxes.
The total cost of civil works will be financed jointly by the Bank, BADEA,
CCCE and PAD. The external lenders would cover 90 percent of total project
costs net of taxes, and the Bank Loan would finance US$3.68 million of
foreign exchange costs and US$2.32 million equivalent of local currency
expenditures. The financing of local costs for this project is considered
appropriate because of the Government's current difficult public finance
situation.
Procurement and Disbursements
30.       The proposed civil works were split into five lots for tender purposes
following procedures of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. Of the 25 contracting firms which indicated interest
in the project, 21 were prequalified for all or some of the lots. Contractors
were invited to tender for all of the lots or for a combination of lots for
which they were pre-qualified. Competitive tenders were received which were
well prepared; the lowest tender is about 30% below the consultants' estimate
at project appraisal. Contract awards will be based on the lowest evaluated
combination of bids, and will be made only after the proposed Loan is approved.



- x -
31.       Disbursements from the proposed Loan will be made on the following
basis: (i) for civil works, 21% of total costs; (ii) for consulting services
for construction supervision and technical assistance, 50% of total costs
(representing the estimated foreign exchange component); and (iii) for consult-
ing services for studies, 80% of total costs (representing the estimated
foreign exchange component).
Environmental Impact of the Project
32.       The configuration of the proposed fishing port includes the creation
of a sheltered basin. The entrance to the basin is up-wind of the prevailing
winds, and a thermal electricity generating station has its cooling water
intake and discharge in the basin; also, a large stormwater canal discharges
into the basin. Because of these features, it is essential that water in the
basin should be able to circulate with tidal changes, and measures have been
taken to assure this.
33.       There has been some concern that in the present situation where
many fishing vessels use temporary berths in the port area near the phos-
phate-loading berths, there may be some contamination of the fish catches;
this problem is expected to disappear when all fishing vessels are berthed at
the new project site away from the phosphate berths.
Employment and Urban Impact
34.       The fishing industry based in Dakar now employs about 5,500 people,
about half of whom are shore-based employees of the fishing fleet and crews
of the fishing vessels. In view of changing patterns in the size and techno-
logy of these vessels, the numbers of crew employed will increase only
slightly as the fleet develops; however, the number of shore-based employees
will double by the end of the 1980's as a result of increased operations
generated by the proposed project. The range of employment within the indus-
try varies widely from unskilled labor to highly trained technicians and
operators.
35.       Development of the fishing port is expected to have a beneficial
urban impact in the renewal of large land areas near the site. PAD has
already started acquiring land and demolishing buildings. The newly ac-
quired lands will be leased to companies or organizations associated with
the fishing industry which need accommodation near the port. Within these
zoned lands is a small area currently occupied by about 100 people engaged
in very small businesses for fish-drying and salting, and catering services.
Since these people will be displaced by the proposed renewal, PAD has arranged
to provide a new building near the entrance to the fishing port where they
can be relocated, and where catering services can be undertaken under conditions
much more hygienic than at present, and with proper sanitation facilities and
other amenities. Construction is expected to start shortly.



- xi -
Financial Evaluation
Present Financial Position of PAD
36.       PAD's audited accounts for the year ending June 30, 1975 show its
finances to be fairly sound. However, PAD's cash balance has diminished over
the past three years by about CFAF 635 million (approximately US$2.6 million
equivalent) due mainly to heavy capital expenditure. Also, its receivables
(particularly those concerning Government departments and public enterprises)
increased to about 49% of gross operating revenue as against the 15% limit
agreed under the First Port Project. This level was reduced to about 36%
at June 30, 1976 following PAD's application of specific measures to assure
recoveries. Since in view of PAD's obligations under the proposed project
it is essential to improve its liquidity, PAD has agreed to the implementation
of a plan which prescribes further strict measures to progressively reduce
its level of receivables to acceptable limits by December 31, 1977. These
limits have been agreed as follows: (i) reduction of ordinary accounts
receivable to not more than 15% of gross revenues; and (ii) reduction of
special accounts receivable (pertaining particularly to services for lights,
buoys, Dakar-Goree ferry, houses for security guards) from the prevent level
of about CFAF 200 million to CFAF 50 million.
37.       The Loan Agreement for the First Port Project stipulated that PAD
should revise the value of its fixed assets in 1967/68 as a one-time measure,
and should achieve a minimum rate of return of 6% on the value of such assets
from 1970/71 onwards; a corresponding rate of return of 7% was achieved in
1974/75. The existing assets now need to be revalued at least by the end of
fiscal year 1977/78, and thereafter as frequently as necessary at intervals
not exceeding five years for the purpose of fixing appropriate tariff levels
and acceptable rate of return limits. PAD and the Government have agreed that
this will be done in consultation and agreement with the Bank.
38.       In addition to PAD's need to improve its liquidity, port finances
also have to be strengthened by augmenting revenues now and in the future.
To help assure PAD's ability to meet its increased financial obligations
without having to raise tariffs to unrealistically high levels, the Govern-
ment has agreed to exempt PAD from paying income tax till completion of the
project.
39.       In order to improve its financial control system, the Government
recently permitted PAD to have its own internal computer capacity for pre-
paring accounts and statistics. PAD has now completed a study of its data
processing needs, staff are being trained, and the equipment is expected
to be in service by mid-1977. Apart from the relaxation of centralized
accounting control which this will offer, however, the Government has not yet
found it possible to relinquish a priori control as had been agreed under the
First Port Project. However, the Government has provided assurances that it
will take all necessary measures, determined in consultation with the Bank,



- xii -
to grant broader financial autonomy to PAD by June 30, 1977 or a later date
as agreed with the Bank.
Tariffs
40.       Port tariffs and related regulations authorized by PAD's Board
are subject to Government approval. Tariff increases have been effected
regularly since 1967 in compliance with agreements reached under the First
Port Project. Following the Bank's suggestion for strengthening PAD's fi-
nances in 1976/77, tariffs were revised in July 1976 which should result
in an overall increase in estimated revenue for that year of approximately
10.6%.
41.       PAD's existing accounting system does not allow costing of services,
and tariffs are consequently not cost-based. The proposed proj`ect provides
technical assistance (including training of Senegalese counterpart personnel)
to devise a new analytical accounting system and a cost-related tariff struc-
ture, and to introduce them by July 1, 1978. As regards the traffic in fresh
fish and fish products, the project provides further technical assistance to
implement an "ad valorem" system of tariffs.  This is considered more appro-
priate than the present per-ton basis, primarily because in determining
taxable capacity the value of different species is more significant than their
weight. The proposed "ad valorem" system will also be introduced by July 1,
1978.
Financial Projections
42.       Revenue estimates to 1982/83 have been based on existing tariffs
as applied to current traffic forecasts, and on the assumption that, even
before project completion, PAD will improve its control of fishing opera-
tions sufficiently to increase revenue. Expenditure estimates allow for
an annual inflation rate of 6% and an annual increase of 4% on account of
traffic growth. Other main assumptions, based on agreements reached under the
proposed project, are that PAD will not be subject to income tax until the
project is completed, and that it will restrict its non-project capital
expenditure to an annual average of CFAF 500 million during the project
period. The financial projections, which allow for revaluation of assets in
1977/78 and 1982/83, indicate that PAD must raise additional revenue almost
continuously from 1977/78, mainly to meet its increased financial obligations
arising from the project.  For this purpose, PAD will have to achieve a
minimum rate of return on net fixed assets in use of 6% up to 1976/77, of 5.5%
in each year until 1980/81 or until completion of the project whichever is
later, and from 1981/82 (or the year from which income tax is levied for the
first time) a minimum rate of return of 4.75%.  PAD will also be expected to
maintain a working ratio not exceeding 60% until 1979/80, and not exceeding
55% thereafter. Agreements have been reached on achievement of the above
stipulated levels.



- xiii -
43.       PAD's ratios of current assets and liquid assets to current lia-
bilities will improve with the accumulation of cash representing mainly
additional depreciation. As a result of the proposed large-scale borrowing
for the project, the debt/equity ratio will increase from 5/95 in 1975/76
to 26/74 in 1979/80, a level which would still be considered acceptable.
Nevertheless, PAD has agreed not to incur any additional long-term debt,
except in agreement with the Bank, unless its net revenue is at least 1.5
times the maximum future debt service requirement.
Economic Evaluation
44.       The proposed project has been designed to eliminate the present
congestion at Dakar port, and to provide adequate berthing facilities for
both domestic and foreign fishing fleets; satisfactory completion of these
measures will help the Government fulfill its objective of developing the
industrial fishing sector and expanding local processing activities to in-
crease exports. Landings by the Dakar-based industrial fleet increased from
about 16,000 tons in 1964 to almost 80,000 tons in 1974/75, i.e. at an average
rate of 18% p.a. Present forecasts show that these volumes would reach about
125,000 tons in 1979, 200,000 tons in 1983, and possibly a maximum of about
260,000 tons by the end of the 1980s. Landings by foreign fleets are also
expected to increase over the same period from their present level of about
30,000 tons to about 80,000 tons; these fleets operate off the West African
coast and occasionally call at Dakar to sell their fish catch to processing
plants or to use shore storage facilities before re-export.
Project Benefits and Risks
45.       The proposed project is expected to yield direct benefits mainly
from:
(a)  improvement of existing operations of the fishing fleet,
and consequent savings in loading and unloading costs,
fish deterioration losses, and time spent in servicing
fishing vessels and handling freezer cargo ships;
(b) avoidance of existing and future congestion at the
commercial berths, half of which would be permanently
employed in fishing activities by 1983 if the project were
not undertaken. Under such conditions, the berth occupancy
rate would reach 80% which would significantly increase
ship-waiting time (chiefly during peak traffic periods),
while the permanent presence of fishing equipment at the
commercial berths would hamper cargo shore-handling
operations and thus increase handling costs and ship
turnaround times;
(c)  improvement in productivity of existing fish plants
now operating at half capacity, resulting from increased
catches by the local fleet and increased landings from



- xiv -
foreign fleets attracted by the improved port operations
(and the enforcement of international agreements relating
to fishing in Senegalese waters).
The above benefits represent the minimum that the project will yield.
46.       The benefits accruing from the proposed investment in the project
(corresponding to the minimal benefits spelled out in para. 45 above) yield
an overall economie return estimated at 23%. If, for purposes of a sensitivity
test, project costs are assumed to be 15% higher and benefits 20% lower, the
project would still yield an economic return of 17%. The economic return for
Senegal alone (excluding benefits to the foreign fishing fleets and benefits
to foreign-owned fish processing plants transferred abroad) is estimated at
17% which is satisfactory. The economic analysis also indicates that the
economie return of the project based on improvement of port operations alone
(i.e. excluding benefits from processing plants) is about 16%.
47.       The scope for potential benefits is far greater than outlined above.
The creation of an integrated fishing port facility will permit a basic expan-
sion of the fishing and fish-processing industries with a host of associated
activities such as ice-making, bunkering, ship-chandling, ship-repairing, etc.
Quantification of such benefits would require parallel assumptions with
respect to additional capital investments in vessels, plant, structures, and
equipment, which lie well beyond the scope of this project. Finally, there
are other benefits which do not lend themselves to quantification in a reliable
manner, but which are nonetheless substantial; these include benefits to ser-
vices and corporations involved in export activities, reduced risk of pollution
in the port area, and improved berthing conditions for the fishing fleet in
inclement weather.
48.       The economic evaluation confirms that the proposed project is justi-
fied primarily by the expected general improvements in port operations; it
will also provide the means for the expected important development of shore
activities. Since the project provides an adequate rate of return even
without considering additional traffic to be generated, there is no real risk
element involved. However, in order that Senegal may benefit to the maximum
from the project and fully utilize the facilities to be provided, the Govern-
ment has provided assurances that it will apply various incentives to assure
the growth and modernization of the Dakar-based fleet, and a continued in-
crease in fish landings for processing by local industries. These incentives
relate mainly to: (i) organization and operations of the various departments
involved in the administration, control, and planning of fishing activities;
(ii) the exploitation of fish resources; (iii) the effective utilization
of credit institutions and agencies involved in promoting fishing; and (iv)
vocational training and creation or development of fishery research institutes.
49.       The Government will discuss with the Bank in mid-1977 its overall
investment program in the industrial fishing sector during the next economic
development plan period 1977-81. The proposed project provides for execution



- xv-
of a study to establish a plan of action for development of the sector over
the next ten years; the study is expected to include a marketing survey of
potential exports for Senegalese fish products to major European and African
countries.
50.       The availability of fish to justify the proposed project construc-
tion may be considered a risk, but fish resources off the Senegalese coast
are being continuously monitored by competent organizations (para. 8), and
the best estimates indicate that existing and potential resources are far more
than enough to allow the large annual catch necessary to support a flourish-
ing fishing industry without severely depleting the stocks.






I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. General
1.01      Senegal is located primarily in the Sudano-Sahelian zone of Africa,
and has a population estimated at about five million in 1975 with a land
area of about 196,760 km2. Per capita Gross National Product (GNP) was
estimated at about US$370 in 1975, after failing to grow during the first
decade after independence (1962) due initially to the loss of Dakar's poli-
tical and economic influence as the capital of French West Africa. Later,
the economy was under a severe strain by 1972-73, following the worst series
of droughts in the century combined with a fall in the export price for
groundnuts. Rainfall was satisfactory in 1974 and 1975, and world prices
for groundnuts and phosphate rock were at record high levels during those
years. However, recent declines in phosphate and groundnut prices have
put a serious strain on the balance of payments.
1.02      The Government has taken several positive steps to accelerate
development, including increasing national investments from 11% of Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) in the mid-sixties to 17% in the early seventies,
and shifting the emphasis of investment and development toward the rural
sector. In addition, in 1974 the Government sought to lessen the country's
reliance on imported foodstuffs (which absorb about 15-20% of export earn-
ings) by developing irrigation and substantially reducing consumer subsidies
on imported rice and cereals, at the same time increasing domestic producer
prices for rice, millet, and groundnuts in order to stimulate domestic pro-
duction. Based in part on the availability of sufficient foreign finance to
meet future public investment requirements, the Bank Group expects that GDP
will increase at about 4.5% through 1980.
B. The Transport System
1.03      Senegal has several unique features which shape its transport
system, including (i) the concentration of population and economic activity
in the Cap Vert Peninsula and in the Groundnut Basin, resulting in short
travel distances and a substantial flow of agricultural commodities from
rural to urban areas; (ii) the strategic location of Dakar as an interna-
tional port and airport, and the use of the port as a point of entry for
international traffic to landlocked Mali and to a limited extent Mauritania;
and (iii) the partial division of the country by Gambia (see Map IBRD 12250).
1.04      The domestic transport system essentially consists of:  (i) a
13,300 km road network which carries about three-quarters of commercial
inter-urban freight and passenger traffic, exclusive of phosphates; and
(ii) a 1,032 km railway which carries mostly phosphates and international
traffic to Mali. The Port of Dakar is the only sheltered deep-water port
in the Sahel region, and also serves as a bunkering point for east Atlantic
trade routes. Three secondary seaports handle a small additional volume of
traffic.  Dakar airport serves as a strategic stopover on routes froin Europe



- 2 -
to South America, and from New York to East and West Africa. Domestic air
transport, river transport, and coastal shipping are not significant trans-
port modes. Apart from the location of Gambia within Senegal, there are no
major physical barriers to the development of transport in the country.
1.05      Senegal's transport infrastructure was relatively well developed
at the time of independence in 1962. With additional investments since that
time, it has b come one of the most extensive in West Afric9 with, for exam-
ple, 12.8 m/km of paved roads compared with about 6.2 m/km in the Ivory
Coast, and similar density relationships for rail and aviation facilities.
There still remain, however, regional disparities in the provision of infra-
structure, with some enclave areas such as Eastern Senegal having few facil-
ities. At the same time, the quality of some services, particularly rail-
ways, remains low. Transport investments represented about 1.5% of GDP in
the early years following independence, but with the Second Pln, the Govern-
ment changed priorities to favor the more directly productive sectors, and
transport investments fell to about 0.8% of GDP. In the early 1970's, in-
vestments in transport infrastructure averaged about US$15 million annually.
The recent revision of the Fourth Plan (FY1974-77) increases this annual
figure to an ambitious US$56 million, or 2.4% of forecast GDP, due primarily
to growing maintenance requirements and opening up of remote regions.
1.06      Several major public investments presently under consideration have
significant implications for the transport sector. The proposed iron ore
mine at Faleme in Eastern Senegal near the Mali border, about 250 km from
the existing rail line and 725 km from the ocean, has potential reserves of
about 1.4 billion tons of high-grade iron ore. The Government is considering
construction of a new rail line from the mine to a major new mineral port near
Sedar, about 80 km north of Dakar, which would handle most phosphate and
processed iron ore exports, and crude oil imports from Iran and Nigeria (para.
1.08). The 1974 development plan for the Organization for Development of the
Senegal River Basin (Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal,
OMVS) proposes investments of around US$3.5 billion equivalent over 40 years.
This would include a multi-purpose dam at Manantali, Mali; a barrage in the
river delta at Diama, Senegal; river ports, dredging, and a river transport
fleet; and major irrigation works. Other developments affecting transport
include possible expansion of the phosphate mines near Taiba, and increased
migration to Eastern Senegal.
Ports and Waterways
1.07      Senegal's port system consists of major international facilities
at Dakar, supplemented by secondary ports at St. Louis, Kaolack, and Ziguin-
chor. Traffic through Dakar port has doubled in the last ten years, and
now totals about five million tons annually. Major traffic consists of oil
products, international traffic for Mali and Mauritania, groundnuts and
phosphate exports. The Port's financial performance has improved in recent
years, due primarily to temporary additional traffic generated by closure of
the Suez canal; even when traffic declined following the re-opening of the
Canal, the port was able to increase tariffs as necessary to remain finan-
cially sound. Details on the Port of Dakar are given in Chapter II of this
report.



- 3 -
1.08      The Government is considering development of a major port facility
80 km north of Dakar near Sedar, initially to handle imports of Iranian and
Nigerian crude oil and exports of petroleum products, phosphates from a new
mine at Tobene, and possibly the eventual export of iron ore from Faleme.
However, further studies are required to determine whether or not it would be
less expensive to ship the phosphates and petroleum through facilities near
Dakar, following operational and track improvements to the railway. Addi-
tional port capacity may be required to handle phosphates and Faleme iron
ore, but probably not before the 1980's.
1.09      River navigation is possible during most of the year on the
Senegal, Saloum, and Casamance Rivers, but traffic volumes are modest and
declining due to the substitution of road transport. Possible improvements
currently being studied by OMVS include increasing the use of river trans-
port on the Senegal River, but this is still a long-term prospct of uncer-
tain economic justification.
Highways
1.10      Senegal's road network totals about 13,300 km, largely concen-
trated in the western regions. Road links with the east are limited to a few
low-standard connections, two of which run parallel to other transport modes
-- the Senegal River and the Dakar-Bamako (Mali) railway. About one-fifth of
the network (2,600 km) consists of paved roads, and another 3,300 km are
all-weather gravel roads; the remainder of the system consists of partly
improved earth roads and ill-defined tracks. The Government has started a
program of pavement strengthening of the most deteriorated main roads, as well
as construction of feeder roads, and it is also currently implementing a
four-year program to improve road maintenance. Bank Group assistance in these
efforts is being provided under three ongoing projects.
Railways
1.11      The Government-owned Senegalese Railway System (Regie des Chemins
de Fer du Senegal) consists of 1,032 km of line, almost all single track.
The main line extends from Dakar to Kidira on the Mali border, while branch
lines connect Dakar with St. Louis in the north, and serve Linguere, Touba,
and Kaolack in the Groundnut Basin, as well as the Taiba phosphate mine.
The Government agreed under the Second Railway Project (Loan 835/Credit
314-SE, US$9.6 million, 1972) to subsidize uneconomic branch lines which
for social or political reasons could not be closed down.
1.12      Railway freight traffic has been growing at about 4.2% p.a. dur-
ing the last ten years, reaching 386 million ton-km in 1974, while passenger
traffic has been declining about 2.3% p.a., reaching 224 million pass-km in
the same year. Despite the growth of phosphate traffic and international
traffic to Mali, most of the system is lightly travelled.



- 4 -
1.13      Mineral traffic and international freight traffic to Mali are gen-
erally captive to rail. Nonetheless, in 1974 about 20% (1.6 million tons)
of the phosphate traffic from Taiba to Dakar (111 km) went by road, primarily
because of the low availability (approximately 50%) of railway motive power.
1.14      In the past, the railway's operating and financial performance was
unsatisfactory because of: (i) cumbersome and restrictive supervision and
control by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs (MOF); (ii) lack of
competent and motivated staff; (iii) ineffective use of available technical
assistance; and (iv) delays in implementing tariff increases. However, the
prospect for improved performance has increased over the last two years due to
higher tariffs approved by Government, increased financial autonomy from the
Ministry of Finance, reorganization of technical assistance, and a Government
subsidy for unprofitable branch lines. Also, the recent purchase of about
US$1.5 million in spare parts under the Second Railway Project has helped
increase locomotive availability and improve operating efficiency. The long-
term future of the Senegal Railways will depend on a program for continuous
improvement in operating efficiency and an accompanying recovery of traffic
volumes. A Third Railway Project appraised in February 1977 will address some
of the most urgent problems, particularly regarding organization and management.
Aviation
1.15      Aviation activity centers on the Dakar airport, which is a major
international transit point. Dakar airport is efficiently managed by the
International Aviation Safety Agency for Africa and Madagascar, and is
equipped with a 2,550 m runway recently lengthened under a project partly
financed by Loan 867-SE (US$3.0 million, 1972). Total passenger movements
through Dakar reached 560,000 in 1974, due primarily to the growth of inter-
national transit and tourist traffic. Air cargo shipments are not yet
significant, although international markets for the export of shellfish and
fresh vegetables are developing. Domestic air traffic is insignificant,
although Air Senegal provides scheduled services to 13 out of 18 regional
airports and airfields.
C. Transport Planning and Coordination
1.16      While the Ministry of Planning has overall responsibility for
preparation of the four-year development plans, several ministries and or-
ganizations take part in the transport planning and coordination process.
The Ministry of Public Works, Urban Development, and Transport (MPWUT) ex-
ecutes Government policy in the transport sector. MPWUT includes three major
departments concerned with inter-city transport: Department of Public Works
(DPW) for administration of the national highway system; Department of Trans-
port (DOT) for regulation, control, and development of the various modes;



- 5 -
and the Department of Studies and Programming (DSP) created in mid-1975 (see
para. 1.17 below). The Ministry of Finance exercises substantial influence
on transport by specifying overall amounts to be invested in each mode, de-
termining the structure and amount of taxes on transport, and until recently,
maintaining strict financial supervision of the railway and port. A num-
ber of Interministerial Committees address particular problem areas in the
sector.
1.17      MPWUT is taking positive steps to strengthen its investment plan-
ning which for the transport sector has been less than satisfactory. In
July 1975 the Ministry was re-organized, one result of this being the creation
of DSP by combining the three study bureaus formerly under DPW, MOT and Urban
Planning. Reporting directly to the Minister, DSP has four divisions for
General Programming; Transport Studies and Infrastructure; Urban Planning,
Architecture, and Land Use; and Administration. Its principal functions will
be to execute economic and technical studies within the competence of MPWUT,
including transport sector surveys and determination of investment priorities.
DSP is also expected among other things, to increase the coordination of
activities between DPW and DOT, and to make better use of the expertise of
available technical staff. Technical assistance to DSP is being provided
under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1222, US$15 million, March 1976).
1.18      The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) provided a team
of experts who helped to prepare the 1973-77 Fourth Development Plan. The
Governnent has specified commendable sector objectives in the update of
this Plan, including minimizing the total cost of transport and making the
fullest use of existing infrastructure investments. Investment planning
in the sector is carried out in principle on the basis of requests by the
operating agencies for project financing, supported by feasibility studies;
and selection by Interministerial Committees and MOP, on the basis of cri-
teria established by MOP and the financial envelope specified by MOF. The
availability of foreign financing also influences which projects are finally
chosen. Selection of the best projects is sometimes difficult, however,
since all projects are not equally well prepared; this is primarily due to
a lack of basic transport planning data, as well as a shortage of trained
personnel to execute the necessary preinvestment studies. These problems
are expected to be alleviated as a result of the work planned by DSP.
1.19      A major outstanding issue in transport coordination is to define
the appropriate future role for railways, and to ensure proper allocation
of traffic between road and rail. A number of aspects bearing on this issue
will be investigated by DSP, which will develop recommendations for consider-
ation by Government. In addition, technical assistance provided under the
Second Railway Project will address problem areas particular to that mode.
The Bank has discussed with the Government the need for following up and
implementing recommendations of a Bank-financed consultant study on trans-
port coordination (Study of the Coordination and Planning of Inland Trans-
port, Berenschot-Bosboom (Netherlands) September 1975), and outstanding
issues are included in DSP's terms of reference.



- 6 -
II. THE PORT OF DAKAR
A. Port Facilities and Traffic
Physical and Operational Characteristics
2.01      The port of Dakar enjoys an excellent sheltered location free
from heavy swells and siltation. Two long breakwaters enclose a large area
(210 ha) of navigable water. Vessels of up to 12 m draft can be accommodated
at high water, the mean tidal range being 1.5 m. As the major port of Senegal,
it has developed steadily over the years and is now quite prosperous. Its
early development was determined largely by its status as a major French naval
base; subsequently, as this need faded, the Port Authority of Dakar (Port
Autonome de Dakar, PAD) took over and converted the military facilities for
commercial purposes, with the exception of a small area reserved for the
Senegalese Navy.
2.02      The general layout of the port is shown in Map IBRD 12251R.  The
port area can be roughly divided into sections: (i) The southern section
is used for general cargo, container traffic, and passenger vessels, and
includes Mole 3 which was extended under the First Port Project (Loan 493-SE,
US$4 million, 1967), and operated as a duty-free zone for Mali traffic. (ii)
The northeast section is generally used for petroleum product imports and
bunkering, and contains a major tank farm. General cargo vessels calling for
both bunker and cargo traffic are handled at Mole 8. (iii) The northwest
section is used for the bulk export of groundnuts and phosphates, and includes
an area presently used for small craft which is reserved for development into
a container-handling facility. In the event that the new mineral port near
Sedar is built, the only effect on the Dakar port will be to release probably
two berths in this section, since some phosphates must continue to be exported
in small carriers destined to ports with restricted depths. (Due to the
exposed nature of the new port site, small vessels will not be able to berth
there). (iv) The northern part of the western section contains berths for
fishing vessels and an area for the maintenance of port and maritime equip-
ment. This is now zoned for the future expansion of the fishing port follow-
ing capacity utilization of the project area. Under the terms of reference
for the container facility study planned for execution under the proposed
project, the port master plan will be updated to include new locations for
these facilities. (v) The southern part of this section contains the old
French naval base with its dry dock and other facilities. Three of the above
sections are contained within their own customs boundaries. The shallow sea
area to the north of port is slowly being reclaimed by PAD in conformity with
the port master plan.
2.03      Road and rail access to the various sections of the port is good,
and would be improved when the entrance to the proposed fishing port is
built. The port is well equipped with cargo handling equipment, quay
cranes, etc., and maintenance of the equipment appears adequate.



2.04      Ship-to-shore cargo handling is carried out by private stevedoring
companies licensed by PAD, and cargo-handling on shore is provided by private
operators who rent transit shed space from PAD and supply or rent mobile
equipment when necessary. Stevedores, shipping agents, forwarding agents, and
ship chandlers operate under franchises controlled by PAD. These operations
are fairly efficient.
2.05      Pilot service operated by PAD is compulsory except for very small
vessels, and is available 24 hours a day. Adequate tug, firefighting and
towing services are provided through a concession to a private company.
2.06      In June 1976 PAD completed the construction of a 1,200 ton dry dock
(Synchrolift system) which will be owned and operated by a company formed
from various port users and PAD. This supplies a long-needed facility for
servicing the fishing fleet and the other smaller vessels based in the port,
and releases valuable land areas now occupied by old slipways.
2.07      The rapidly expanding fishing fleet has outgrown the existing
fishing vessel berthing facilities. There is now a severe shortage of berth
space with the result that fishing vessels berth anywhere within the port
area where they can find space, taking up valuable commercial berth space,
and preventing adequate control of the fleet and of the quantity and quality
of fish landings. In addition, occasional severe weather from the south and
east gives rise to sea conditions within the port area which are hazardous
to small fishing vessels.
2.08      There is no special organization within PAD to manage or control
fishing operations, and a system has only recently been instituted for evaluat-
ing the landed catches and recording movements of vessels. The proposed
project provides management technical assistance to service the new fishing
port.
2.09      The volume of dry cargo traffic through the port of Dakar has grown
more slowly than envisaged at appraisal of the previous port project. In
large part, this can be attributed to the recent worldwide recession and the
resulting decline in purchasing power in Senegal and throughout the world.
The number of vessels calling at Dakar increased considerably after the
closing of the Suez Canal in 1967, and there has been a corresponding decline
following the Canal's recent re-opening.   The following table summarizes the
past three years' traffic through the port:



- 8-
----------(in '000 tons) -----------
1972/73        1973/74        1974/75
Imports
Dry Cargo                       1075            1393            971
Petroleum Products               994            915            803
Crude Oil                        581            699            663
Total                      2650           3007           2437
Exports
Dry Cargo                       2297           2408            2378
Petroleum Products               106             98             58
Bunker Fuel                     1070            781            703
Total                      3473           3287           3139
The increase in dry cargo imports during 1973/74 was mainly accounted for by
foodgrains imported because of the drought which eased the following year.
The decrease in petroleum products followed the increase in oil prices and
the recession. The level of dry cargo exports, consisting mostly of phos-
phates, remained steady, while bunker fuel oil declined sharply. The num-
ber and tonnage of vessels calling at the port also declined during this
period.
2.10      Traffic projections through 1983 are summarized below:
---------------------(in '000 tons)---------------------
1975/76  76/77  77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83
Imports
Dry Cargo                 935   1018   1036   1052   1081    1110   1147   1195
Petroleum Products       550    565    570    580    590        600    600    600
Crude Oil                 750    775    800    825    850       900    900    900
Total             2235   2358   2406   2457   2521    2610   2647   2695
Exports
Dry Cargo                2020   2154   2253   2356   2477    2550   2622   2689
Petroleum Products         50     52      54     56      58       60     62      64
Bunker Fuel              450    460    470    480    500        500    500    500
Total              2520   2666   2777   2892   3035    3110   3184   3253



- 9 -
The forecasts of dry cargo imports reflect a steady decline in foodgrains,
based on the assumption that the recent drought conditions will not recur and
that Government schemes to increase the local production of foodstuffs will
succeed. Overall, dry cargo traffic shows an increase, principally in fresh
fish. General items are expected to increase in line with economic growth.
Crude oil imports will increase with the expansion of the oil refinery. As
regards exports, some increases in phosphates, groundnut oil, fish products
and general items are foreseen. Transshipment traffic has been included under
both imports and exports. A basic assumption is that the contemplated new
mineral/oil port will not be effectively established before the expected date
of project completion. Similarly, the oil imports and exports associated with
the creation of a new refinery complex at the new port have not been taken
into consideration.
B. Port Administration
2.11      The Port Authority of Dakar (Port Autonome de Dakar, PAD) was formed
in 1959, and since 1960 has been an agency of the Republic of Senegal. The
Board of Directors of the Port Authority has 17 members and meets at least
three times a year. The chairman is appointed by the President of the Repub-
lic; the vice-chairman represents the Minister of Finance. Fourteen members
of the Board are Government representatives, two represent the Port users,
and two represent the Port's personnel. Decisions of the Board are subject
to the joint approval of the Ministers of Public Works and Finance. Tariffs
on goods also require prior agreement of the Minister of Industrial Develop-
ment. Separate Government departments efficiently run health and immigration
services, police, customs, lighthouses and buoys, and railways in the port.
2.12      PAD operates and maintains the port facilities, and is responsible
for all improvement and expansion works. All executive functions are vested
in the General Manager of PAD, who also acts, under the authority of MPWUT,
as coordinator of all activities of various Government departments and agen-
cies in the port.
2.13      Maintenance of the Senegalese navigation aids is carried out by
a sub-division of PAD, and managed by expatriate staff from Association
Internationale des Aides a la Navigation/Direction des Phares et Balises
(INNA/DPB, France) which also provides the buoy tender LEON BORDELLE with-
out charge.
2.14      There are five departments reporting to management.  The organ-
ization is satisfactory and works well. However fishing operations are
completely ignored, and a separate department must be formed to manage
and control fishing operations, as proposed under the present project (see
para. 4.06). There is a total of about 640 staff in the various departments
as follows: Management, 4; Central Services, 50; Commercial Services, 39;
Pilotage, Harbor Master, Training, 154; Operations, 192; Engineering and
Development, 201.



- 10 -
PAD's organization chart is shown below:
|MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Nav B ovs                                                      er
n L                  - tGENERAL MANAGER
/          ~~~~Deputy General Manager \ 
_,,-          ~~~~and Chief of Operations 
Centra' Services      Commercial Service|    Port Control    Operations       Lfngineering
,- 1  e    Q;  0  0;  |  |  91  l  | v O W    1  0 4  ffi   r~~~~~~ Chief En. 
C    v                SQ                    C4    w 0 ,  V u  0o0a V.r  0 0  a 0  .  b-
c  o  c  *~-~ u uc    1-i,-H  n  u    *-1I    aiJ,-Hr  e  g   o  *, 0 -4B3   1-C s  I.'O
v  W  a  Qu U)  -H -M    O o~  u   'u UY    Ej QH Q           -W 0.  ::  0      0    Il O       g
O  U . 4,   4 :  Co  ~ 4B  'H    <-4  R~  J.  0     c   ~                    -0  Co'
5 O    '0i C  .0 U    ,1      O       -    G)  O V          a >  aCi D. ai      OD
o    ~C e0  o-          SU r >) er           - o o-O    .)  I-W -o  O         O   -,v0< z    
u a    0 e                            >)   c  V          e W .    m   c  .,4 O
<C    P O.  -z  /D G)rcne    -a .< UD  P. p- b          O    o      o e     o             <
>             m u  a 5   c   3  O  ...  oo  Z
C. Accounting, Budgeting, Audit and Finance
Accounting
2.15      Under the first Dakar Port Project, it was agreed that PAD should
keep its own accounts, irrespective of the accounts kept by the Government's
central accounting agency, Centre des Etablissements Publics (CEP). This was
done to assure PAD's always having prompt and up-to-date information on its
financial situation. But internal accounting and preparation of statistics
were transferred to CEP in violation of this agreement, and because of per-
sonnel and managerial problems within this agency, there are considerable
delays in its preparation of the monthly accounts and statistics. PAD is
therefore handicapped in regulating its receivables and managing its opera-
tions. The Government has recently approved PAD's proposal for renting
computer facilities linked with CEP's for preparing its own accounts and
related statistics. PAD has now had a study made of its information needs,



- il -
and has also made arrangements for training the necessary staff and for
obtaining the equipment which is expected to be in operation by mid-1977.
2.16      The Bank has corroborated the results of studies made by the Bureau
Organisation et Methodes calling for modernization of PAD's management methods.
However, apart from the relaxation of centralized accounting control as
discussed in para. 2.15 above, the Government has not yet found it possible
to relinquish a priori expenditure control as had been agreed under the First
Port Project, presumably because of the malfunctioning of certain public
enterprises. Certain exceptions to this a priori control were stipulated in
orders issued under Decree No. 73-779 of August 13, 1973, but these orders
have not yet been implemented. The Government has agreed to take all necessary
measures to fully implement the modified decree by June 30, 1977 or other date
as agreed with the Bank. In any event, the proposed powers are not very
significant and need to be expanded, particularly to enable PAD to improve its
operating efficiency and to help it realize the greatest possible return from
the proposed fishing port investment. To assure this, the Government has
further agreed that the abovementioned decree will be amended in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank allowing broader financial autonomy to PAD.
2.17      PAD's general accounting broadly follows usual commercial princi-
ples. However, under the Port's accounting system, receipts and expenses are
classified according to their nature and not according to function. In the
absence of analytical or cost accounting, the profitablity of various services
cannot be easily determined, and tariffs cannot be revised in relation to
costs. The growth of the port and of fishing activities, as well as the
magnitude of the proposed investment in new facilities, require that a new and
more effective accounting system be instituted. The proposed project provides
technical assistance, including training of Senegalese counterpart personnel,
for introducing analytical accounting and a cost-related tariff structure by
July 1, 1978 (paras. 2.22 - 2.23).
2.18      Depreciation is provided on the original fixed assets on the basis
of a revaluation in 1967/68, and on like assets subsequently acquired includ-
ing those under the First Port Project at book cost. Since current replace-
ment values are substantially higher and will probably appreciate further, and
in order to determine appropriate tariffs and prescribed rates of return, PAD
and the Government have agreed that fixed assets will be revalued by June 30,
1978, and thereafter as frequently as necessary but at intervals not exceeding
five years in consultation and agreement with the Bank. Depreciation will be
provided on the revised values as assessed from time to time.
2.19      Working capital is fixed at CFAF 30 million, and a statutory reserve
fund is required to be maintained at a level not below 20% of the average
operating expenses during the preceding three years. These limits may require
revision with the expansion of traffic and operations. A special development
reserve with a varying annual limit fixed by the Board is maintained. The



- 12 -
surplus remaining after operating expenses (including depreciation), debt
service, and transfers to statutory reserves must be remitted to the State
without obligation of return. Surplus cash, except for a small amount re-
tained in office, is kept in the Treasury; no interest is paid to the Port
on these funds. The Minister of Finance had been considering converting a
part of the funds into Treasury bonds on which interest would be paid, and
the Government has now provided assurances that this will be done for 25%
of such surplus funds of PAD.
Budgeting
2.20      The form of the budget is identical to that of the accounts, and
does not permit functional budgeting and budgetary control. The Director of
PAD is statutorily responsible for presenting each fiscal year's detailed
revenue and capital budget to the Board. The departments formulate their
estimates and send these to the Commercial Service Department where they are
screened and the composite figures for the Port compiled. The budget, as
passed by the Board, has to be approved by the Ministers of Public Works and
Finance. Analytical accounting would help to frame more realistic estimates
and permit management to keep track more efficiently of the Port's financial
position by department and activity. Improvement in the budgeting procedures
should also include long-term forecasts. As budgeting is linked with account-
ing and financial control, PAD was asked to consider whether, in any future
re-organization of the administrative set-up, it might be advantageous to
transfer responsibility for the Port's budget to the Accounts Department,
which could then be redesignated as Finance Department. The Bank has now
discussed with PAD the practicality of setting up a full-fledged Finance
Department; PAD has agreed to the reform in principle, and expects to intro-
duce the new organization effective July 1, 1977.
Audit
2.21      The centralization and regulation of PAD's accounting and expendi-
tures in CEP provides a means of control over the agency's finances. A
measure of internal audit is exercised by PAD's Accounts Department; however,
this department will eventually need to enlarge its internal checks depending
on the nature of the financial autonomy to be granted to PAD as a condition
under the proposed project. External audit is performed by the statutory
Public Corporations Audit Commission composed of financial experts from the
Government and accountants contracted from the private sector, and whose
jurisdiction covers financial as well as management audit. The Commission's
general performance has been quite good, and it has been impartial in critiz-
ing deficiencies in public establishments. In 1973/74 it surveyed the func-
tioning of PAD's Accounts Department, its accounts, and financial management
for the period 1960-72. A Senegalese expert accountant attached to the
Commission audited PAD's accounts for 1972/73 to 1974/75. PAD agreed with
most of his recommendations for changes, and these are being implemented. The
Senegalese system of a mixed type of Audit Commission is well adapted to the
dual character of PAD, which is public in nature and policy, but commercial in
technique and accounting.



- 13 -
Tarif f s
2.22      Port tariffs and regulations, authorized by the Board, require
the approval of the Ministers of Public Works, Finance, and Industrial De-
velopment.  Tariffs are however not cost-based, a shortcoming which is ex-
pected to be removed with the proposed introduction of analytical accounting
under the present project. Tariff increases have been effected from time to
time since 1967 to comply with agreements under the First Port Project, and to
generate additional revenue to meet increased obligations. There are signi-
ficant differences in the tariffs applied to general commercial traffic and to
fishing traffic. The smaller fishing vessels pay concessional annual charges.
On the other hand, the more expensive species of fresh fish (such as shrimp,
lobster, and tuna) pay considerably higher import and export charges than some
principal items of trade like foodgrains, groundnut oil, and iron and steel;
the excess ranges from about CFAF 2,010 to CFAF 9,960 per metric ton.
2.23      Tariffs for fish traffic are presently being levied on a per-ton
basis, but an "ad valorem" tariff structure is considered more suitable; this
is because the value of different species of fish is more significant than
their tonnage in determining taxable capacity, and also because the boat-owner
is interested in realizing the best price for his fish cargo. It is generally
assumed that the boat-owner or seller of fish as well as the purchaser (market
wholesaler or industry) would not mind paying higher port charges to match the
increased value of the catch. There is therefore a distinct advantage in
linking port charges to the value of fish, provided this can be determined on
an average basis periodically and without difficulty, and provided the port
exercises the necessary control over operations and revenue, and ensures in
applying the system that there is no prejudice to fish traffic.  The ad
valorem system has been successfully adopted in a number of leading fishing
ports. Specific services to fishing vessels (such as pilotage, berthing,
etc.) are generally charged separately.  The revenue from ad valorem tariffs
is intended to cover the use of the berths, auction or market hall, and other
infrastructure facilities. Consultants SCET-SONED (France/Senegal) have
recommended introduction of the "ad valorem" system of tariffs for fishing
traffic at Dakar port, and PAD itself favors the adoption of such a system.
The principal aim of the new tariff system would be to ensure a cash flow from
fishing activities sufficient to cover operating costs and debt service, to
the extent that traffic will allow. The system can be introduced with advan-
tage at Dakar, but because of its complexities, the assistance of an expert
familiar with the functioning of the system will be required for its imple-
mentation. The proposed project provides for the necessary expert services,
including training of Senegalese counterpart personnel, and for introduction
of the "ad valorem" tariff system by July 1, 1978.
Insurance
2.24      As in the case of the Loan for the first project, PAD has agreed
to maintain adequate insurance coverage for all structures, machinery and
equipment, allowing for regular revaluation of the existing assets and in-
cluding the assets to be constructed or acquired under the proposed project.



- 14 -
III. THE SENEGAL FISHING INDUSTRY
3.01      Over the past 20 years, Senegal has become one of the leaders in
the development of fishing resources in West Africa. This is primarily
because of the existence within Senegalese territorial waters (recently
extended to 150 miles offshore) of a potential annual catch estimated at
about 900,000 tons.
3.02      By the mid-1970's, total annual landings exceeded 300,000 tons,
of which 75% was by 4,000 canoes manned by some 30,000 fishermen; the canoe
fleet is still of major importance, but the significance of the Dakar-based
industrial fleet is growing rapidly. Landings of this fleet, mostly in
high-value species, contributed the remaining 25% of the annual total, equal
to about 80,000 tons; the volumes of fish landed have been increasing at an
average of about 18% annually over the past decade, and this growth pattern of
landings by the industrial fleet is expected to continue.  The fishing sector
as a whole contributes about 7% of GDP. The industrial fishing industry
centered at Dakar contributes about 4% of GDP, providing about 9% of Senegal's
exports and jobs for some 5,000 people.
A. Marine Resources
3.03      The cont nental shelf off Senegal is 600 km long and covers an area
of about 24,000 km . Oceanographic conditions along the coast are very favor-
able to marine life, and are able to sustain large fish resources. These
conditions play a major part in the abundance and movements of fish stocks.
On the continental shelf, the sea floor is generally easy to trawl; there
are some isolated rocks and coral formations which make these areas suitable
for handliners.
3.04      Exploitation of fishing resources in the region is periodically
reviewed by a working group on resources evaluation of the FAO Fishing
Committee for Eastern Central Atlantic which provides up-to-date informa-
tion on fish stocks and recommends research programs. The Research Center
of Oceanography in Dakar has also carried out studies to evaluate fish
stocks in the waters off Senegal, Gambia and Guinea Bissau, and has recom-
mended optimum levels of catches. These studies and surveys have confirmed
that (i) future increases of catches of demersal species and tuna will level
off, but that considerable potential exists for pelagic fish whose stocks
have been only partially exploited; and (ii) the risk of over-fishing of
demersal species was eliminated in 1972 with implementation of the Gov-
ernment's program for exploitation of fish resources (paras. 3.25-3.26).



- 15 -
Pelagic Species
(a) Coastal Pelagic
3.05      Pelagie fish are abundant along the West African coast, par-
ticularly along the Senegal shelf. One of the most abundant species is
Sardinella:
(i) Sardinella aurita migrate north and south along the
Senegalese and Mauritanian coasts. There are two popula-
tions, one off the coast of Senegal, and the other north
of Nouadhibou in Mauritania. They are seasonal, and their
maximum concentration coincides with the maximum upwelling.
The Senegalese population migrates rapidly southwards from
Cap Blanc (Nouadhibou) to south of Dakar from November to
January and northwards from April to June with the movement
of cold Canarian waters. This species lives in waters
with a temperature ranging from 150 to 30 0C, but is very
sensitive to salinity variations. The spawning season
varies with latitude; it occurs in May-August north
of Dakar, and April-October south of Dakar. In Senegalese
waters 5he fish usually concentrate in schrols of about
8,000 m with a density of about 20 fish/m . This
species represents about 50% of the catches in Senegalese
waters.
(ii) Sardinella Eba inhabit waters of less than 30 m, do not
undertake wide-range migrations, and live in lower salinity
water than Sardinella aurita. This species and some
limited catches of Sardinella Bonga form the bulk of the
catches in Senegalese waters from July to October.
The total potential annual catch of Sardinella species suitable for industrial
fishing along the Gambian and Senegalese coasts is estimated at about 450,000
tons (188 kg/ha). The stock is centered off the coast at Dakar from January to
April, and moves south to the Casamance region and the Gambia from September to
October.
(iii) Mackerel is also abundant in Mauritanian and Senegalese
waters, but there are considerable seasonal variations.
Spawning takes place north of Nouadhibou from December
to February, and from October to March in the area of
St. Louis. Dense adult concentrations favorable to high
yield occur during this period.



- 16 -
(iv) Horse mackerel is one of the most numerous species found in
the coastal pelagic catches along this part of the West African
coast. The main fishing areas are located off Mauritania and
Senegal over the slopes of the continental shelf. Migrations
occur with the movements of the Canarian water masses, but
these migrations are of limited size. Spawning in Senegalese
waters occurs in November to March. The main exploitation in
Senegal takes place from August to February near spawning
grounds which usually coincide with the areas of adult con-
centration.
The potential annual catch of coastal pelagic species other than sardinella
which can be caught in Senegalese waters is estimated at about 390,000 tons,
250,000 tons of which are horse mackerel (104 kg/ha), 100,000 tons are mack-
erel, and about 40,000 tons are other coastal pelagic species. Up to now,
mainly because of Government policy to restrict development of fishmeal
products and favor fishing for human consumption, this stock has barely
been exploited by Senegalese fleets.
(b) Oceanic Pelagic - Tuna
3.06      Tuna is the most economically important of all the oceanic pelagic
species. Large tunas of the type caught by long-line vessels (yellowfin
and bigeye in the tropics, albacore and bluefin in subtropical and tropical
waters) are found in all the warmer waters of the Atlantic; but the richest
grounds for the tropical species caught with purse-seiners or live bait, are
relatively close to the West African shelf in areas of seasonal upwelling.
The potential sustained harvest of tuna from the Atlantic may be about 500,000
tons annually, most of which are from the eastern central Atlantic (mainly
schools of yellowfin tuna and skipjack which are found in waters relatively
close to the coast, particularly along the coast of the Gulf of Guinea from
Senegal to northern Angola).
3.07      Fishing for tuna in the Atlantic was started by the Japanese in 1956
using long lines, and by the French in 1958 using pole and line. Purse seiner
operations began in 1962. There is now in the Atlantic a fleet of about 300
tuna boats and tuna purse seiners. The total catches in the Atlantic are
reported to be about 250,000 tons, 150,000 tons of which are in the eastern
part. About 60% of the production is now caught by purse seiners.
3.08      Landing of tuna in African ports depends not only on the location
of fish schools, but also on fishing port facilities and the type of fishing
fleets. A large number of long liners from Japan, Korea and China (Taiwan)
fish in offshore Atlantic waters. These vessels are generally based at Las
Palmas, Dakar, Freetown, Abidjan, Tema or Pointe-Noire, from where they trans-
ship their catches. Medium-sized purse seiners and live-bait fishing vessels
are frequently operated by non-African firms, and are based in local ports.
Since the speed of the vessel and engine power are major factors for success-
ful fishing operations, the most recent trends are for very large transoceanic



- 17 -
purse seiners, mainly from the United States. The purse seiner catches
are reported to reach 2.8 tons/vessel/day at Abidjan, 5.7 tons/vessel/day
at Pointe Noire, and 5 tons/vessel/day at Dakar. The long-liner catches
reach 3.8 tons/vessel/day for the fleet based at Pointe Noire and 2.3 tons
and 1.5 tons respectively for the fleets at Abidjan and Dakar. Catches of
the Dakar pole line fleet are limited to about 1 ton/day.
3.09      The potential annual catch of tuna within Senegalese waters is
limited to only about 10,000 to 15,000 tons. As most of the catch of tuna
along the African coast is made outside the protected waters of coastal
countries, the future volume of landings in Dakar will depend mainly on the
operational efficiency of the local purse-seiner fleet, and the competitive
position of the Port of Dakar vis-a-vis Las Palmas and Abidjan for storage
and transshipment by the foreign fleets. Details of traffic forecasts are
given in the Economic Evaluation in Chapter V of this report.
Demersal Species
(a) Demersal Fish
3.10      Demersal resources are characterized by a large variety of fish
species of varying commercial value. The total catch of demersal species
from latitude 100 N (Guinea) to 190 N (Cap Timiris north of Nouakchott) is
about 250,000 tons, but total potential catches by industrial fleets within
Senegalese waters accessible to trawling is estimated at only 50,000 to
60,000 tons. For economic reasons, Senegalese industrial trawl fishing
tends to concentrate only on higher value species suitable for export
(sole, red snapper, croaker, mullet), and frequently the Dakar fleet con-
siders demersal fish catches only as a by-product of shrimp-trawling activ-
ity. Since only small trawlers are allowed to fish closer than 12 miles
from the shore, there is no incentive for industrial fleets to exploit the
cheaper demersal species. During the last decade, about 75% of the catches
of demersal fish have been made by foreign fleets (mainly Japanese, Russian,
Greek, and Spanish) for direct export to Europe or the African countries
off the Gulf of Guinea. The volume of demersal fish landed in Dakar has
increased slightly but regularly since 1972, when Senegal extended its
territorial limits and set up an exclusive fishing zone covering the entire
continental shelf.
(b) Shrimp
3.11      Pink shrimp, the most common species, is found in two areas between
Cayar and St. Louis, and between the mouth of the Casamance River and off
the Bissagos Islands. A deep sea shrimp, caught mainly by Spanish fleets,
is also found in abundance on the slopes of the continental shelf; but stocks
are still unknown as these fleets have only recently started operations. The
total sustainable stock of pink shrimp available for industrial trawling in



- 18 -
the area is estimated at about 5,000 tons, of which 3,500 tons can be caught
by Dakar fleets within Senegalese waters.
(c) Cephalopods
3.12      Octopus and cuttle fish stocks in Senegalese waters have so far
not been exploited, but Japan now intends to do so. As observed along the
northern part of the African coast, mainly in Mauritania and south of Morocco
(the former Spanish Sahara), stocks can increase rapidly within a very short
time (increase of stocks of about 250,000 tons in about one year, in parti-
cular off the former Rio de Oro, is mentioned in the FAO report on fishing
resources in West Africa). The causes of the possible rapid expansion of
these stocks are uncertain; they may however be due to overfishing of some
demersal species, and the consequent decrease in consumption of octopus
larvae. Present estimates of the potential annual catch in Senegalese waters
vary from 15,000 tons (FAO) to 30,000 tons (Japanese fleet).
B. Industrial Fishing
3.13      Industrial fishing operations began in Dakar in 1954 with one
vessel. The industry developed rapidly in the early 1960's. Currently
about 150 vessels totalling 21,000 GRT and of average size 26/56 HP, 140 GRT
and 15 crew members are registered in Dakar; about 130 of these vessels were
operating regularly during 1975. Most of the vessels are 15 years old or
older, and can be divided into six categories as follows: 5 handliners, 58
ice trawlers, 9 freezer trawlers, 15 sardinella purse seiners, 13 tuna purse
seiners, and 28 pole and line tuna vessels. Senegalese vessels represent just
over half of the fleet, and another 35% are under the French flag. Crew and
employees exceed 2,500, one-tenth of whom are expatriates. The net fixed
asset value of the fleet is approximately $25.5 million equivalent. Much of
the fleet now needs to be renewed with larger and more expensive vessels
requiring less maintenance, fewer crews and able to carry larger tonnages of
fish.  Adequate financing for this renewal effort is expected to become
available within the sector from revenues derived from fishing agreements with
foreign fleets, as well as from various bilateral assistance programs notably
Canada, Denmark, and Norway,  profits from commercial fishing, and through
local commercial and development banks.
Handliners (Cordiers)
3.14      These vessels of 13 m, 18 GRT, 75 HP and a crew of 10 were designed
by FAO in 1962 as a transition from canoe fishing to industrial fishing.
After initial success, the handliner program eventually failed due largely to
poor management. However, because handliners are considered an essential step
in the overall development of the fishing sector, a revived program for the
building of 36 new vessels, financed by France ($2.6 million) has just begun.
The remaining original handliners, now under better management, make perhaps
30 trips a year per vessel, landing 4 tons per trip valued at about $534
per ton.



- 19 -
Trawlers
3.15      The present fleet ranges from 13 m (small coastal snapper trawlers)
to 41 m Japanese pair trawlers. The average vessel is 26 m, 110 GRT, 500
HP with 13 crew members. They land about 15,000 tons of fish and 3,000 tons
of shrimps annually. The 11 small coastal trawlers will progressively be
replaced by new trawlers of 14 m, 250 HP, with a 7 ton hold capacity, and
costing $160,000, each to be financed and operated in a manner similar to the
handliner fleet.
3.16      The oldest vessels, the 25 m ice trawlers of 270 tons annual capa-
city (mostly under the French flag), are expected to decrease sharply in
number over the next five years, and to be replaced by larger, 50 m freezer
trawlers of 1,000 tons annual capacity.
3.17      A significant increase in the capacity of the shrimp freezer trawler
fleet is expected when extensive reconditioning of 22 former Kuwait vessels
is completed. These vessels will operate under the Senegalese flag and land
all their catches at Dakar.
3.18      A growing number of Japanese trawlers of 1,000 tons annual capacity
will be based in Dakar in joint venture with two Senegalese organizations.
They will be used mainly for cephalopod fishing.
Sardinella purse-seiners
3.19      There are at present 15 Senegalese ice purse seiners operating
from Dakar. Thirteen of the vessels are small seiners of 25 m, 90 GRT, 350
HP, mainly converted from pole-line tuna vessels and operated by a crew of 19.
Annual catches amount to about 4,000 tons per vessel. The trend is toward a
fleet of 33 m refrigerated purse seiners with a capacity of 8,000 tons per
year per vessel.
Tuna purse seiners
3.20      Up to mid-1976, tuna purse-seiner fishing operations were conducted
by the Societe Senegalaise d'Armement a la Peche (SOSAP), a mixed company es-
tablished in 1965 for offshore tuna fishing with tuna purse seiners of about
38 m, 850 HP, and 130-ton hold capacity. During the last seven years the
fleet increased from 5 to 24 vessels. In 1975 SOSAP acquired three modern
U.S.-type oceanic tuna purse seiners of 54 m, 2800 HP, and 750-ton hold
capacity, similar to those which operate predominantly in the Pacific. How-
ever, as a result of poor management, technical and financial difficulties,
the number of active vessels has been decreasing, and in 1975 only ten ves-
sels were operating on a regular basis from Dakar. As a result, the com-
pany registered a large deficit which increased from about $17 million in
1974 to about $24 million in mid-1976; finally, the Government decided to
liquidate the company. However, because of the importance of tuna fishing
for Senegal, the activity is expected to continue; a new corporation will
be created to operate the more modern units of the former SOSAP, but with



- 20 -
new status and management and with closer ties to more experienced foreign
fleets. Under normal operating conditions, the more modern 38 m vessels
are epxected to land in Dakar about 850 tons of tuna per year in 12 trips
of 20 days each (instead of 450 tons at present), and the 54 m vessels up
to 3,000 tons per year in 9 trips of 30 days each.
Pole-and-line tuna vessels
3.21      The pole and line tuna vessel fleet (Canneurs) is under the French
flag and averages 25 m, 90 GRT, 2350 HP and 18 crew members. They land about
270 tons per year for local processing in 20 trips of 12 days each. Crew
members fish with pole-and-line, using live sardinella as bait.  The average
age of the vessels is 20 years and their number is expected. to decrease. They
may be replaced with combination pole-line/trawlers which can be used for
trawling outside of the tuna fishing season.
Total catches and landings
3.22      From 1964 to 1974, total landings by the Dakar fleet increased from
16,000 tons to about 80,000 tons, a rate of about 18% per year (see Table 1).
The major increase was in sardinella which rose from 2,600 tons in 1964 to
50,000 tons in 1974. While tuna landings showed marked fluctuations, there
was an upward trend of 2.5% per year, reaching.about 13,500 tons in 1974-75.
The following table shows the average distribution of landings over 1974 and
1975, and indicates the importance of shrimp and tuna fishing to the Dakar
fleet:
Average 1974             Price        Value
and 1975 (in tons)   %    US$/kg   US$ million   %
Demersal species
shrimp                      3,500           4    2.67         9.34       33
cephalopods                 2,000           3    1.11         2.22        8
fish                        9,900          13      .38        3.78       14
15,400          20                15.34       55
Pelagic species
sardinella                 48,000          62      .07        3.20       12
albacore, tuna              8,200          10      .69        5.66       20
listao, patudo tuna         6,200           8      .58        3.60       13
62,400          80                12.46       45
Grand total          77,800         100                 27.80      100
Although the trawlers land only about 22% of the catch, the value of their
catch represents approximately 55% of the total. The following table compares
the actual catch of the Dakar-based fleet with the theoretical possible
catch:



- 21 -
Average catch
Type of vessel              Possible catch          in 1974-75        Ratio
Handliners              120 t x 5    =      600 t           300 t          50%
Trawlers                270 t x 90   =  24,300 t        15,100 t            62%
Sardinella seiners   5,000 t x 11   =  55,000 t         48,000 t           87%
Tuna pole and line      275 t x 28        7,700 t        6,800 t           88%
Tuna seiners          1,000 t x 16   =  16,000 t         7,600 t            47%
Total                  150 vessels   = 103,600 t        77,800 t            75%
Average vessel                               690 tons       518 tons
The table shows the poor performance of the SOSAP tuna seiners (47% of possi-
ble catches) and of handliner and trawler fleets which have to be modernized.
By contrast, the new Japanese trawlers achieve a performance ratio of 100%.
C. Government Maritime Fishing Policy
Basic Objectives
3.23      Given the abundant quantities of fish off its shores, Senegal's
basic objective is to reap the maximum economic benefits from this resource.
The country is tapping only a portion of this resource through the activities
of its artisanal and industrial fishing fleets. At the moment, the former is
the more important, but in face of the growing size, efficiency and technology
of the industrial fleets (many of which are foreign-owned and foreign-based),
Senegal has begun to change its policies in order to maximize the benefits it
could derive from exploitation of its fish resources by industrial fleets.
However, since the country does not itself have the capacity to exploit these
resources, the Government recognizes that it must, at least for the time being,
work with and through the foreign fleets which operate in its territorial
waters.
3.24      Accordingly, the Government has begun to take measures to increase
its benefits and to strengthen its position vis-a-vis the foreign fishing
fleets. One of these measures is the development of joint venture enterprises
in which Senegalese will own a minimum of one-third of the capital and be
associated in the management. Another is accelerating the increase in the
number of Senegalese nationals manning foreign fleets based in Senegal. In
addition, the Government would also like to see greater investment by for-
eigners in the Senegalese fishing industry; to this end, preference is being
given to those fleets and countries which will invest in Senegal rather than
merely pay royalties for fishing in Senegalese waters.



- 22 -
Control of Resources
3.25      In addition to the traditional agreement with Gambia which provides
reciprocal fishing rights between the two countries, a variety of laws
have been passed during recent years to permit better preservation of fish
resources in territorial waters, and to promote development of a dynamic
domestic fishing sector.
3.26      In April 1976 Senegal extended its territorial sea limits to
150 miles, divided into three zones as follows:
(a) Up to three miles offshore - reserved for the operations
of the canoe fleet to preserve their activities.
(b)  Three to twelve miles offshore - allocated to small trawlers,
seiners, and refrigerated vessels of less than 50 GRT and
other semi-industrial fishing vessels.
(c) Twelve to 150 miles - allocated to the licensed industrial
fleets including those of countries with whom fishing
agreements have been signed, excluding trawlers of more than
700 GRT and factory ships.
These restrictions are intended to preserve the stocks, increase the share
of the catch landed by the domestic fleets, and ban the operation of foreign
factory vessels. Regulations governing the operations of foreign fleets are
now being enforced. Licenses to operate within the 12 mile limit can be
given to foreign vessels on condition that the catch is landed in Senegal.
3.27      In its policies toward foreign fleets operating in Senegalese
waters, the Government differentiates between those of developed and of
developing countries. One of Senegal's objectives is to promote the export of
fish and fish products to West African countries located south of the Gulf of
Guinea where fishing is limited. Agreements provide that fleets from these
countries will be allowed in Senegalese waters on condition that the vessels
are based and land their catches at Dakar, that they invest in processing
plants, and that their markets be open to Senegalese fish exports without
tariff discrimination. Fishing agreements with developed countries are
entered into on a selective basis, with priority given to those which have
traditionally participated in Senegal's economic development. Agreements
include fees for catches not landed in Senegal, special import tariffs for
fish products re-exported from Dakar to the home country, and the creation of
joint ventures to develop the Senegalese fishing industry. Since the estab-
lishment of this policy, several countries including Japan, Spain, France,
Italy, Kuwait, and Poland have entered into agreements, and most of them now
have fleets based in Dakar.
Agreement with France (September 1974)
3.28      The agreement authorizes about 60 fishing vessels based at Dakar,
30 trawlers and 30 pole and line tuna vessels, to operate within the



- 23 -
Senegalese waters provided they land their catch in Senegal and one-third
of their crew is Senegalese. Also, France has recently accepted through the
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) to grant Senegal three
loans for: (i) co-financing the present fishing wharf project (US$6 million);
(ii) construction of 4 small patrol boats to control fishing operations in
Senegalese waters allocated to traditional fishing (US$200,000); and (iii)
construction of a first group of 9 handliners with the necessary technical
assistance for fishing and maintenance operations (US$1 million). CCCE will
also be associated with the new mixed corporation which the Government is
planning to create to develop activities at Dakar for ship-repair and con-
struction of small boats.
Agreement with Spain (May 1975)
3.29      Up to 112 Spanish fishing vessels of less than 700 GRT (namely 36
freezer tuna purse-seiners, 56 freezer shrimp trawlers, and 20 combination
trawlers) are authorized to operate within Senegalese waters. The agreement
anticipates the landing at Dakar of 4,000 tons of tuna and 1,400 tons of
crustaceans for local processing. A loan of 1 billion pesetas (about $16
million) has been granted, 75% of which is for purchase of equipment in Spain
and 25% for fishery development projects. In addition, tuna clippers have to
land their entire catches in Senegalese waters at Dakar, and the same rule
applies to all demersal fish caught by freezer shrimp trawlers.
Agreement with Italy (January 1975)
3.30      The agreement authorizes up to 50 Italian fishing vessels of less
than 700 GRT to operate in Senegal. A loan of 4.5 billion lira (about
U$6 million) is to be granted to Senegal for development projects and
purchase of equipment.
Agreement with Poland (March 1976)
3.31      Poland is authorized to operate a fleet of large freezer trawlers
within Senegalese waters, nine of which will be based and land their catch
at Dakar. A US$30 million loan was made to Senegal for the purchase of 12
medium-size trawlers (23-25 m) in Poland, 3 freezer cargo ships of 1500 tons,
and equipment for development of processing plants in secondary ports. In
addition, Poland will provide 49% of the capital for a new joint corporation
for processing and marketing of fish products, and 49% of the capital for a
new corporation to build fishing vessels and repair ships. A credit of CFAF
155 million (US$690,000) has been recently granted to carry out a study of the
fishing port at Saint Louis.
Agreement with Japan (under negotiation)
3.32      The Government of Senegal has requested financial aid (possibly
US$4 to 5 million) from Japan for the purchase of training or research
vessels, equipment for fisheries schools, etc. Exact clauses of this agree-
ment are still being negotiated. However, by mid-1976 11 large trawlers were
already reported to be based in Dakar, mainly for catching octopus and
cuttlefish.



- 24 -
Other international and bilateral assistance
3.33      In addition to the counterpart programs under fishing agreements,
Senegal has benefited over the past ten years from continuing assistance
for development of maritime fishing through UNDP/FAO assistance programs
(boat building and maintenance, vocational training, survey and research
on fish resources, etc.), as well as from various bilateral assistance pro-
grams of countries which, although not interested in fishing in Senegalese
waters, still want to make a contribution in the sector. These include:
(i) A Canadian loan of Can $2.7 million granted in September
1972 to supply the canoe fleet with 3,500 outboard en-
gines, spare parts and engine-repair facilities. The
operation is now completed, and negotiations are under-
way between Senegal and Belgium for a new loan to purchase
in Belgium a new supply of 3,500 outboard engines to replace
the old ones.
(ii)  A new loan of about Can $10 million is expected from Canada
to create about eight artisanal fishing centers equipped
with cold rooms, ice-making plants, and refrigerated trucks,
tO help improve and develop marketing of the artisanal fish
catch in major local consumption areas.
(iii) Through its Development Assistance Agency (DANIDA), Denmark
has recently granted two loans (totalling US$4 million) to
Senegal, plus suppliers' credits totalling US$6 million to
finance ongoing operations in the fishing sector. These
include rehabilitation of a cold store and creation of a
fishmeal plant in Dakar, and a cold store and an ice-making
plant at Saint-Louis.
(iv)  Assistance from the Kuwait Fund is also envisaged for the con-
struction of a new secondary fishing port for artisanal fleets
at Elinkine in the Casamance region, and from Norway for de-
velopment of a new fishing fleet also to serve that region.
License Fee
3.34      A license fee of CFAF 7,500 (US$33) per gross ton is required from
all vessels operating within Senegalese waters, with the exception of the tuna
vessels landing locally and small vessels under 30 GRT. In 1975/76 the locally
based fishing fleet paid a total of about CFAF 75 million (US$330,000). Full
implementation of the abovementioned fishing agreements would result in addi-
tional fee payments of more than $2 million. Also as a result of the fishing
agreements, an estimated total of about US$55 million equivalent in loans and
credits from various bilateral and multilateral donors is expected to be
generated.
3.35      Control of the fishing grounds is being carried out fairly well.
Fines for illegal fishing are very high, with none being lower than CFAF 1



- 25 -
million (US$4,000). In the case of a foreign vessel operating in the exclu-
sive area without a license, fines vary from CFAF 5 million to 50 million
(US$20, 000 to US$200,000). The Government is planning to allocate part of the
receipts from fines to the officers responsible for controlling the fishing
grounds.
D. Fish Processing and Marketing
3.36      Of the total 300, 000 tons of fish landed in Senegal in 1975 by
canoes and the industrial fleet, 70% was marketed fresh for local consump-
tion, and the remainder frozen for export.  Most of the fish landed by the
industrial fleet is processed for export. No problem is fqreseen for the
export of high priced species such as tuna, shrimp, or demersal fillets
traditionally exported to Europe. Considering the importance of demand,
the volume of exports of sardinella could easily exceed 150,000 tons by
the mid-80's. Total local consumption is expected to increase from the
present 250,000 tons to about 350,000 tons by the end of the 1980's.
3. 37     There are 23 major fish processing plants in Senegal employing
a labor force of about 3,000 people. Within the Dakar area there are:
4 canning factories with a combined capacity of 140 tons/day of tuna and
25 tons/day of sardinella; 16 freezing plants with a combined capacity of 700
tons/day; 2 fishmeal plants with a combined capacity of 350 tons/day; various
cold storage plants with a combined capacity of 19,000 tons; and various ice
making plants with a combined capacity of 290 tons/day. The largest plant is
ADRIPECHE, a shrimp and fish freezing and export organization with a turnover
in excess of $7 million equivalent.
3.38      Net fixed assets of the fish processing industry amounted in 1975
to about US$14 million equivalent. Total exports in that year amounted to
about 41,700 tons (30,700 tons of frozen fish, 8,900 tons of canned products,
and 2,100 tons of fishmeal) with an FOB value of about $41 million equivalent.
More than 80% of exports went to franc zone countries, mainly France and the
Ivory Coast.
3.39      The demand for imports of fish products in major West African
countries is considerable, and might well reach about 1 million tons by 1990
(Ivory Coast:  150,000 tons, Ghana:100,000 tons, Zaire:200,000 tons, Nigeria:
300, 000 to 500, 000 tons) , but exports from Senegal to these countries have so
far been limited to about 15,000 to 18,000 tons per year, mainly to the Ivory
Coast. The development of Senegalese exports has been hampered by: (i)
competition from vessels of the USSR which land fish at low prices and
dominate the market in West African countries; (ii) the extreme delays in
payment from some large consumers such as Nigeria; (iii) the lack of organi-
zation and governmental support to Senegalese firms for export promotion; and
(iv) the limited capacity of the Senegalese fleet to catch low-priced species
such as sardinella.
3.40      The Government has several efforts underway to help improve the
situation: (i) Societe Africaine pour la Commercialisation des Produits de la



- 26 -
Peche (SAFCOP), a Government-controlled corporation, has been created and has
been successful due to Government support and excellent management; (ii) new
joint ventures have been created between Senegalese and Ivorian firms for
marketing Senegalese products in Ivory Coast; (iii) a recent agreement has
been reached between member countries of the West African Monetary Union
to develop exchanges between franc zone and other African countries mainly
Ghana, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone; and (d) the recent Government policy
allowing fleets from West African countries to operate in Senegalese waters
if they open their market to Senegalese fish products. The proposed project
provides for execution of an in-depth study of the current situation in
fisheries and related activities, with a view to establishing a coherent
plan of action for development of the sector over the next ten years. Terms
of reference for the study include an analysis of existing export markets
for frozen fish and fish products, and an investigation of possible new
markets for high-value fish particularly in Europe and Japan, and for other
species of pelagic fish in West Africa; the study would explore the possi-
bilities for development of these markets and measures to be taken to assure
this.
E. Fishing Institutions
3.41      The Directorate of Fishery and Oceanography is a branch of the
Ministry of Rural Development. Its role is to: participate in interna-
tional control of ocean waters; be responsible for the exploitation of
domestic fish resources; control the Senegalese national waters; and man-
age the fishery sector and its development. The staff totals 155 people.
The organization is responsible for preparing specific projects, negotiating
fishing agreements, distribution landed tuna for the canning plants, and
operating four coastal patrol vessels to enforce fishing regulations. The
most recent major activity of the Directorate has been the promotion of
artisanal fishery, planning of regional centers, and development of an in-
stitute of tropical fishery sciences. Its annual budget is about $350,000,
but will have to be increased significantly in the near future as Government
intends to increase the control over fishing operations, develop the activi-
ties of its regional centers, and create new secondary fishing ports to
accommodate small artisanal fishing vessels which serve the domestic market.
3.42      Senegal has an excellent Oceanographic Research Centre located at
Thiaroye which is responsible for oceanography, biological studies, and
assessment and movements of fish stocks. The center is supported by the
French Office de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique d'Outre-Mer (ORSTOM)
It undertakes periodic surveys of catch areas, and controls the landings and
operations of the Dakar-based fleet. The staff consists of a director and 15
research officers, about half of whom are expatriates. The annual budget
exceeds $200,000. It operates a research vessel belonging to FAOAJNDP.



- 27 -
3. 43      The Caisse d'Encouragement a la Peche is a special account within
the Treasury whose funds are used to aid the fishing industry, including pro-
motion of exports of Senegalese fish products, research, resource management,
structures related to the industry, and subsidies to fishing cooperatives.
The account is managed by a committee consisting of Government officials and a
representative each of boat-owners and industry.  Its income of about $900, 000
equivalent is derived from taxes paid by fishing vessels (30%) and processing
industries (45%), plus two-thirds of the license fees (25%).
3.44       The Senegalese Navy is responsible for control of the territorial
waters, and operates three patrol boats of 30 m, 18 knots.  It assists,
where necessary, the Directorate of Fishery in control of fishing opera-
tions within Senegalese waters.  The Merchant Marine is responsible for
vessel registration, maritime labor, and safety of lives at sea.
F. T raining
3. 45      Training of fishermen and ship mechanics has increased significantly
during the last 15 years, but the training programs need to be improved
and expanded. Post-university training programs for research and high-level
senior fishing officers and managers have to be developed.
Dakar Nautical College
3.46       The Ecole Nationale de Formation Maritime is the most important
nautical training institution of an intermediate level. The school is
controlled by the Ministry of Education, and has a total budget of about
$230, 000, a capacity of about 200 students (100 boarders), and a training
staff of 17, of whom nine expatriates. It operates three training vessels:
an old research vessel of 22 meters with a capacity for 20 students, a
16-meter trawler, and a hand liner of 13 meters. The two fishing vessels
undertake trips of about 7 days and are equipped with compass, radar, radio-
direction finder, echo-sounder and various types of fishing gear.  The Asso-
ciation's Second Education Project (Credit 530-SE, US$15.0 million, 1975)
includes a provision for technical assistance and equipment for this college.
3. 47      Students are recruited from among candidates with a secondary-
school education. All candidates for deck officer positions must undertake
a four-month cruise aboard a fishing or a merchant vessel.  The program
provides for the training of captains, master fishermen mates, and ships'
engineers and mechanics. In addition, the school provides a program for
adult professionals nominated by and paid for by their firms. The training
provided by the school seems to be successful as progressively more Senegalese
vessels are now skippered by Senegalese nationals.



- 28 -
The School of Fisheries Administration of Thiaroye
3.48      The Ecole des Agents Techniques des Peches et Oceanographie is
mainly oriented toward training officers and civil servants for the fishery
administration. The school was established in 1963 on the recommendation of
FAO experts, and is controlled by the Department of Technical Education
and the Directorate of Fisheries. Its budget is about $100,000 a year. The
school has a capacity of 50 students and a staff of five expatriate teachers.
Students are recruited at the intermediate secondary school level. They
receive $75 per month as a grant, and they take three years to reach the
level of Junior Fishery Officer.  Internal competitive exams are given in
order to obtain the title of Senior Fishery Officer.  An average of 80%
of the students are Senegalese nationals, and 20% come from other French-
speaking countries in West Africa. The school confers about 15 degrees per
year. Most of the Senegalese graduates are recruited by the Directorate of
Fisheries. Development of the school has been somewhat handicapped by budget
constraints.
The Vocational Training Center at Joal
3.49      A center for vocational training of marine fishermen was established
at Joal in 1974 by the Delegation Generale a la Promotion Humaine within the
framework of a UNDP project at a cost of $95,000.  The center, which operates
a 13-meter handliner, trains about 20 students a year who are selected from
among skilled fishermen and trained during a nine-month course. Elementary
fishing techniques, mechanics, navigation, boat building, fish processing
and bookkeeping are taught by the center.  The proceeds from the sale of fish
caught by the training handliner are given to the graduates in order to enable
them to acquire small fishing boats.
Future Government Training Policy
3.50      Considering the rapid development of maritime fishing expected in
the next decade, the Government intends to develop training at five levels
as follows:
(i) Post-university level
Presently, such training does not exist in Senegal. About 15
students per year are needed to fill senior officer positions
in the administration, civil chief engineer jobs in fisheries
and high-rank managers in mixed or private fishing enterprises.
Considering the time required for this kind of training, the
Government plans to recruit candidates from among university
graduates in economics and management sciences. They will
receive scholarships for complementary training abroad and
possibly in the future at a proposed new Institute of Fishing
Sciences at the University of Dakar.



- 29 -
(ii) College and university level
Training for university graduates in fishing activi-
ties does not yet exist in Senegal, and this is now
needed to continue training begun at the Nautical
College and the School of Fisheries Administration at
Thiaroye. Such training would provide middle-level man-
agerial staff with a good basic general training in admin-
istration and fisheries enterprises. They would include
senior master fishermen, economists, financial analysts and
civil engineers. Until the Institute of Fishing Sciences of
the University of Dakar is created, the Government envisages
that these needs could be adequately met at the Ecole
Nationale d'Economie Appliquee and at the Institute of
Technology of the University of Dakar. Demand for such
graduates is estimated at 30-35 per annum.
(iii) Professional training
The needs are estimated at about 60 graduates per year,
and could be covered by the Nautical College of Dakar and
the School of Fishery Administration of Thiaroye if training
staff and facilities are increased.
(iv) Vocational training and artisanal fishing
Annual needs are estimated at about 200 qualified pro-
fessionals: half of them would be third-class technicians
in ship engines, and the remainder mechanics in fleet
workshops and processing plants. Students would be trained
at the existing vocational training centers in Joal,and at
two similar training centers planned at St. Louis and
Elinkine.
(v) Fishing ports management
Specific training of fishing port officers would be required
to manage the new secondary fishing ports which the Govern-
ment plans to develop at St. Louis, Djifer, Elinkine, and
possibly later on at Kafoutine and Foundiougue. Very likely
these secondary ports would be managed by civil engineers of
the Department of Maritime Affairs of MPWUT in association
with the local chambers of commerce. In the short run,
management of these ports would require assistance of
experienced expatriates, but the training program needs to
be implemented urgently in order to permit progressive
Senegalization of management. Training requirements for
staffing of the secondary fishing ports will be assessed as
part of a study to be executed under the proposed project
for establishment of a plan of action for development of the
fisheries sector. As regards the proposed new Dakar fishing



- 30 -
port, it is planned to establish a separate organization
within PAD responsible for management and operation of the
port so as to assure adequate control and development of
the industrial fishing sector, and to derive as much revenue
as possible from activities at the new port. PAD personnel
for the various management-level positions required will be
trained by technical assistance experts to be provided
by FAO.



- 31 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. The Port Master Plan
4.01      A comprehensive master plan for the medium- and long-term develop-
ment of the Port of Dakar was completed by engineering consultants BCEOM
(France) in November 1972, and adopted by Government decree of June 1974.
The master plan suggested several methods for providing increased berthing
space for fishing vessels. The facility proposed under the present project
is a logical improvement of the layout indicated in the master plan. Port
development has begun in accordance with the master plan, and major capital
works undertaken to date include the lengthening of Mole 2, substantial
dredging works, and the construction of a 1,200 ton Synchrolift dry-docking
facility. The next logical development is providing up-to-date facilities
for handling the increasing volume of container traffic, and the proposed
project provides consulting services to study these requirements.
4.02      An unresolved issue concerns the export of phosphates through Dakar
port. The Government plans to increase considerably the production and export
of phosphates, and is studying the feasibility of constructing a new port some
80 km north of Dakar specifically to handle imports of crude oil for a possible
new refinery, and exports of phosphates, petroleum products, and possibly iron
ore. The effect of this new port would be to reduce substantially the volume
of phosphates exported through the port of Dakar, since small vessels destined
for ports with restricted depths would have to continue using Dakar because of
the exposed nature of the proposed new mineral port site. The need for oil,
petroleum and bunker berths at Dakar should not change to any great extent,
but the reduced volume of phosphate exports would probably release two berths,
leaving more room for development of general cargo and container facilities,
and reducing the present pollution by dust. Thus the shape of the next phase
of development of the Dakar port will rest partly on the Government's decision
whether or not to proceed with the new port. The proposed fishing port
project would be only slightly affected by construction of the new port, since
the loss in revenues to PAD from reduced phosphate traffic would be minimal,
and the traffic diverted would relate to only two berths out of 46. The
container study to be executed under the proposed project would provide for
the possibility of using these two berths if the new port were built.
B. Project Objectives and Description
Objectives
4.03      The objectives of the project are:
(1) To provide a much greater length of berth face in the
existing fishing port area so that all fishing vessels
can be accommodated in one part of the port, allowing for
expansion of the fleet over the next ten years.



- 32 -
(3)  To ensure that maximum revenues are obtained from the
fish landings and the exports of fish and fish products,
and that full control is effectively maintained over the
movements and landings of fishing vessels.
(4)  To ensure that the fishing industry is able to continue
to develop without restriction in order that Senegal can
benefit to the maximum from its fortunate location and
available services.
(5)  To ensure that the next major phase of development
contemplated by PAD for the port, i.e. the establishment
of a terminal and facilities for container traffic, is
designed and programmed to suit the traffic requirements and
the future use patterns of the port.
(6)  To establish a coherent plan of action for development of
the fisheries sector over the next ten years.
4.04      The length of new berth face and areas of reclaimed lands included
in the project have been largely dictated by the physical constraints of the
port area. However, the lengths and areas provided within the project are
sufficient for a first major expansion of the fishing port, and any increase
in the berth lengths would displace other functioning sections of the Port's
activities. Project civil works can be completed without significant inter-
ruption of the operation of the present fish-handling facilities.
4.05      The main elements of the project are (i) civil works, (ii) tech-
nical assistance, and (iii) consulting services.
(i)  The civil works component, including consulting services
for supervision, would consist of (a) construction of
about 1,495 m of new berth face; (b) reclamation of
about 10.5 ha of land; (c) paving of the reclaimed
areas and installation of ancillary services; (d) de-
molition of the old slipway and associated buildings;
and (e) construction of the main access road to the
new fishing port.
(ii) Technical assistance would provide experts for (a) man-
agement, operations and planning of the fishing port;
(b) introduction of analytical accounting procedures
and preparation of a cost-based tariff structure; and
(c) introduction of an ad valorem tariff structure for
fish traffic.



- 33 -
(iii)  Consulting services would be provided to (a) study and
define the needs of the Port of Dakar for handling
container ships, and outline the development of con-
tainer port facilities and equipment needed to handle
container traffic efficiently and competitively; and
(b) study in depth the current situation in industrial
and traditional fisheries and related activities, and
then establish a coherent plan of action for development
of the sector over the next ten years.
4.06       Technical assistance would aid PAD with the following:
(a)  Fishing Port Management
The development of the fishing industry has been rapid, and since
this development has taken place within the administrative and physical
confines of a commercial port, there has been little effort to direct or
control it in a rational, efficient manner. However, considering the size
of the proposed project and the Government's and PAD's need to gain all the
available revenue from the fishing industry, it is essential that an organi-
zation be formed, within PAD, to control and develop the industrial fishing
sector. The following organization chart shows the unit recommended by FAO
and Bank staff:
I   | P.A.D. |  |                               | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Directorate of Fisheries|
:  |           |         | Fi~~~~~~~shing port manager 
Ac|secounts | | Port Captain| j   | Management
.  | r  _  |             Offi~~~~~~~ce Saf
Fishing Port Fishing Port        s15fh.ng Port Operations   Fsomel an       Gov't and otner
Accounts    Captain               Assistant Manager       Administration    Agencies
1 Accountant   A Assistants   |Shore-based  |iadio and Com-1 Plant and    1 Manager  Customs
2 Cashiers   1 Boatman     1Operations    munications          1equip.aainti Nurse  Immigration
2 Collectors    1 Clerk                                         1 Clerk       Statistics
-lerks                    1 Supervisor   3 Operators   1 Supervisor          Fue_ zoncesion
2 Clerks    3 Messengers  1 clerk                 .ce supp_iers
5 Police                                          wua_ity conLrc(
3 Services                                        Stevedores
controllers                                    Services:Water
3 Auctioneers                                             2e-.
5, SFles Assts.
Fr e
Industries



- 34 -
This organization is expected to be adequate to manage the port when the
project is completed and fully operational. PAD will immediately begin to set
up the organization and staff with a view to full implementation by the
completion of civil works in early 1980. Some of the staff who would be
assigned to this unit could be transferred from other sections of PAD; others
will have to be recruited. It is essential that PAD staff be trained to
manage and operate a fishing port, and the project provides technical as-
sistance for this purpose.
(b) Fishing Port Operations and Planning
At an early stage in the project, an expert in fishing port manage-
ment and operations (to be provided by FAO) would visit Dakar for perhaps
six months to begin helping select a staff and to advise on the development
of the port area and land use. Six months prior to completion of the civil
works a manager, a fishing port operations expert and a fishing port engineer/
planner would be appointed to manage the port and to train the Senegalese
staff. They would complete their contracts one year after the project comes
into full operation (see para. 4.37 for detailed scheduling of project execu-
tion).
(c) Introduction of Analytical Accounting and Preparation of a
Cost-based Tariff Structure
The services of an experienced firm of consultants or an individual
consultant or expert will be provided for about 15 months starting early 1977
so that analytical accounting and a cost-based tariff structure can be imple-
mented not later than July 1, 1978.
(d)  Introduction of an 'Ad Valorem' Tarif f System for Fishing Traffic
An 'ad valorem' tariff system is planned for implementation not
later than July 1, 1978, and experts experienced in the operation of this
system in a fishing port will visit Dakar for about six months during 1977 to
arrange this. Technical assistance to be provided under the project includes
training of Senegalese personnel.
4.07      A study would be undertaken by consultants to define the needs of
the port of Dakar for handling container ships, and to outline the development
of container port facilities and equipment required to handle adequately
and competitively future container traffic. The study would include an
amendment to the port master plan in the light of the study findings. The
scope and timing of the study (estimated 30 man-months of services over six
months), as well as terms of reference for the consulting services, have been
agreed with the Government and PAD (para. 4.26).
4.08      Consultants for the fishing sector study will be required primarily
to: (i) identify and define the different types of fishing activities in the
country (marine fisheries including industrial, artisanal and semi-artisanal,
as well as inland fisheries), and carry out a technical and economic analysis



- 35 -
of each type, as well as a critical analysis of the possibilities for develop-
ment taking into account particularly available resources, markets, and
other relevant technical, sociological and economic factors; (ii) carry out
an inventory of equipment used in the fishing sector (ships, freezing equip-
ment, factories etc.) and analyze their productivity levels; (iii) analyze
domestic and export markets for fish products, and study possible new markets
for high-value fish for example in Europe and Japan, and for other species in
the West African region, and measures required to assure their development;
and (iv) study the organization and functioning of different services re-
sponsible for the administration, control and planning of fisheries activi-
ties, as well as those of research institutes, training centers, and other
agencies offering credit or other assistance to the fishing sector. More
generally, the consultants will be expected to evaluate the various programs
and development projects in the sector either underway or planned, to study
the functioning of fisheries cooperatives and propose a systemn which could
work effectively, and investigate the socio-economic context in which the
industrial and the traditional fishing sectors operate. About 60 man-months
of services (over approximately 15 months) are provided for by one or more
consulting firms, complemented eventually by other short-term services by other
specialists as required. On the basis of the broad lines of their analysis as
outlined above, the consultants will be expected to make realistic recommenda-
tions for the preparation and implementation of a coordinated plan of action
for development of the fisheries sector over the next ten years. The above
outline terms of reference have been agreed with the Government.
C. Engineering Evaluation
G eneral
4.09      The principal criteria used in evaluating the fishing port extension
were:
(i) To provide sufficient increased length of berth face for
fishing vessels to satisfy the anticipated needs of the
fishing port until at least the late 1980's and thus remedy the
present situation whereby fishing vessels berth anywhere in the
port.
(ii)  To provide an area of waterfront land which is immediately
accessible to the fishing vessels, and which is essential
for the repair of nets, storage of frequently used fishing
gear and equipment, ice plants, fleet offices, etc.
(iii) To connect the two existing lengths of berth face used by
fishing vessels to form one continuous quay. This was
not possible until now because of an important slipway
which has become obsolete. The area of the old slipway will
be filled to provide valuable waterfront lands.



- 36 -
(iv) To enable PAD to adequately control the movements and
operations of the fishing fleet by ensuring that all the
vessels engaged in this industry are berthed in one area of
the port with adequate facilities.
(v)  To ensure that the proposed project does not result in a
deterioration of the water quality of the port.
(vi)  To enable fishing vessels to take on ice, fuel, water
and provisions, and to carry out repairs without having to
move out of the fishing port area.
(vii)  To provide berths suitable for refrigerated vessels used
for the export of fish products and frozen fish within
the section of the port reserved and zoned for the fishing
industry.
(viii)  Originally PAD had hoped to be able to carry out the project
using its own resources. The present configuration of the
fishing port project is based largely on the layout worked
up by PAD's engineering and operation staff as the basis for a
turn-key contract. This layout was considered acceptable.
Dredging
4.10      The dredging necessary for the project, carried out on the initiative
and under the control of PAD, was completed in 1975-76.  A combined contract
(no. 198) for the dredging for both the Synchrolift ship maintenance facility
and the proposed fishing port extension was drawn up by PAD, international
tenders were invited and the contract awarded to SOFRA T.P./FOUGEROLLE-
S.N.C.T. (France/Senegal) which has been established for many years in the
Port of Dakar. The value of the contract was CFAF 626,900,000 (US$2.8 mil-
lion) with a 16 3month contact period.  Some 175,000 m  of material was removed,
about 102,000 m of which was a soft, white sedimentary calcereous material of
variable qullity, described by PAD as "rock". The unit prices were 1,400 CFAF
(US$5.22)/m for the overburden and 4,860 CFA (US$21.60) for the "rock". The
contractor used a system of breaking up the "rock" with chisels and then
employing a bucket dredge. The overburden was disposed of at sea and the
"rock" used for reclamation on the north side of the north breakwater.
4.11      The general bottom level of the dredged areas is - 7.0 m (below
datum) with the Synchrolift platform at - 8.5 m and the base of the re-
claimed area for the fishing port adjacent to the main ship channel at
-10.0 m. The work was completed ahead of schedule.



- 37 -
Layout of New Fishing Port Extension - Physical Constraints
4.12      The planned reclamation is about 10.5 ha in area and is irregular
in shape with seven straight sides. Considerable thought has been given
to providing the largest area of land together with a workable length of
quay and a sheltered water basin of adequate dimensions (220 m wide) bearing
in mind the shape of the sea floor contours.
4.13      The shape and area are considerably changed from the layout in-
dicated in the master plan for the port. The principal constraints control-
ling the PAD proposal are:
(i) the east face of the area should be parallel and
adjacent to the 11 m dredged channel (the edge is, in
fact, only 25 m from the west edge of the channel);
(ii)  a pressing need for an area which is capable of sheltering
the small fishing vessels from occasional but very strong
southerly winds which produce bad sea conditions inside
the port area;
(iii) a pressing need for land adjacent to the quay for the landing
and export of high quality fish, maintenance of nets and
trawls, equipment storage and an ice plant;
(iv)  easy access to the areas ashore zoned for the fishing
industry;
(v)  the water depth required by the various types of fishing
vessels. It varies considerably and trends are for
increasing draft. A minimum depth of 7 m is provided with
10 m on the berth adjacent to the main channel. These
depths are considered more than adequate; and
(vi)  the floor of the port area.  It is generally hard below
- 6.0 m, thus dredging of large areas is to be avoided
where possible. The planned form of the reclaimed area
reduced the volume of dredging by utilizing as much of the
shallow areas as possible for reclamation.
Berth Face Construction
4.14      Since under certain weather conditions waves enter the port area
and cause difficult conditions for small vessels, it was considered necessary
to avoid building all of the berth faces as flat faces to reduce problems of
wave reflection and difficult conditions alongside. Thus the berth faces
which are opposite the port entrance will be constructed using concrete blocks
with voids to reduce wave reflection.



- 38 -
4.15      For all the various facets of the berth faces, tender documents
invited contractors to price the following alternatives which were detailed in
the documents, and also to submit other alternatives which they considered
more suitable. Pile driving trials were carried out on the site prior to the
invitation of tenders, and the results of these trials were made available to
the prequalified tenderers. The alternatives suggested were:
(a) gravity wall of concrete blocks with in situ capping;
(b)  pre-cast reinforced caissons in two layers filled with
selected rock; and
(c) relieving platform of reinforced concrete on steel piles
with a rock armoured slope beneath.
Following their evaluation of the tenders received, the consultants recom-
mended adoption of an alternative proposed by the lowest bidder which calls
for the use of gravity hollow concrete blocks similar to (a) above, but with
perforations on the seaward face to reduce wave reflection. It has therefore
been possible to adopt the most economical solution.
4.16      All of the above methods of construction have been previously
employed in the port. (It is interesting to note that the contract
for the extension of Mole No. 2 which was recently completed in the port
was tendered on a design and construct basis. The contract was won by
SOFRA T.P./FOUGEROLLE S.N.C.T. which elected to use two layers of precast
reinforced concrete caissons as being the most economic design.)
4.17      Diagonally fixed tubular rubber fendering is provided together
with bollards and ladders.
Water Quality
4.18      The configuration of the port extension and the creation of a
protected basin have given rise to concern over the quality of the sea water
in this basin. Since one of the electricity generating plants for Dakar
discharges warm water into the area and because the direction of the prevail-
ing wind is into the basin, it was considered necessary to provide a channel
to enable the water to circulate more easily during the tidal changes. Thus
a section of the 90 m wide reclaimed area adjacent to the existing berths
would be built as an open structure on piles.
4.19      In addition, one of the main storm water drainage canals (no. V)
discharges into the small basin, and the channel would enable the effluent
to be dispersed more readily.



- 39 -
Demolition of the old ACD Slipway
4.20      The old Atelier et Chantier de Dakar (ACD) slipway would be demo-
lished to enable the two existing fishing berths to be joined together into
one continuous berth. The slipway was used until June 1976, when the newly
constructed Synchrolift drydock became operational. This new facility is
immediately adjacent to the proposed project site, and the land has been
acquired by PAD from the French Naval Base.  The facility was constructed and
is managed by SODEMHE (Societe Dakaroise de Mise Hors d'Eau) which is a
quasi-government organization specifically set up for the purpose.
4.21      The slipway consists of a ship-lift of the Pearlson Engineering Co.
Inc. (Synchrolift) of 1200 tons capacity and a 5 m draft maximum with a very
limited number of ship transfer bays but capable of being expanded as more
land becomes available. This facility is not planned to cover`more than
hull maintenance, and propeller shaft and rudder repair for Government and
private vessels including fishing boats. The site is rather restricted, and
the facilities for working on floating vessels are inadequate. The detailed
civil engineering design of the facility was made by SOFRA T.P./FOUGEROLLE -
S.N.C.T., who were also the main contractors.
Services
4.22      The following services will be provided on the reclaimed area and
the new berths:
(a) Fresh water distribution system with frequent hydrants;
(b) Gas-oil distribution system;
(c) Storm water drainage;
(d) Electrical distribution system together with flood-
lighting; and
(e) Telephone system.
4.23      Since there is no piped sewerage system in the port area, no pro-
vision has been made for sewers. Each building to be constructed within the
fishing port area will be required to install a sewage treatment unit.
4.24      The reclaimed area is to be provisionally laid out with roadways
and areas of land for lease to organizations or companies needing direct
waterfront land.



- 40 -
New Phase of Port Development - Execution of a Study of Facilities for
Handling Future Container Traffic
4.25      Following the proposed extension of the fishing port, the next
logical step in the development of the Port of Dakar would be a facility for
handling container traffic. The port master plan indicates an area of the
port for this facility.
4.26      A study planned for execution under the proposed project would
comprise the following items as the major terms of reference:
(a) review the container traffic along the entire coast
of West Africa now and for the next 10-15 years.-
Identify trends in vessels, size, capacity,
and container sizes and use.
(b) project the growth of container traffic for the port of
Dakar and develop the scope of the minimum facilities
needed to handle this traffic on a phased construction
and purchase basis.
(c) prepare preliminary engineering alternatives and layouts
with detailed cost estimates for the facilities proposed
and the equipment necessary. Update the port master plan
to include the proposals.
(d)  carry out economic and financial analyses of the investment
cost of the facilities on the basis of the projected growth
and work out suitable tariff structures.
Proposals from qualified consulting firms would be invited at an early stage
in the project timetable, and execution of the study is expected to last about
six months.
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.27      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$24 million
equivalent, with foreign costs of about US$10 million (about 40%).1/ These
costs include about US$2.7 million equivalent representing two tax elements
(turnover tax and licensing fees) which will be paid by PAD as part of its
contribution to the project costs (paras 4.35 and 4.36); the Government has
agreed to exempt the project from all other taxes as well as from customs
duties on imported materials and equipment. PAD will also have to pay in-
terest during project construction estimated at US$3.31 million equivalent.
1/   The foreign exchange cost appears low because the civil works con-
tractor submitting the lowest bid is locally based (para. 4.38), and
because of the expected extensive use of local materials.



- 41 -
4.28      The above cost estimates also include a 10% physical contingency
allowance on civil works items, as well as price contingencies averaging
22.5% over the project period based on assumed annual increases applied as
follows: 1976, 13%; 1977-79, 12%; and 1980-81, 10%. Cost estimates for
civil works are based on consultants' recommendations following the evalua-
tion of tenders received in September 1976 (para. 4.38).
4.29      Details of project cost estimates are shown on the following page:



-  42  -
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
- =  '.FAF million -----    --US$ million equiv.---
1. Civil Works
Lot 1 - Berth face
construction                   1,667    1,112    2,779    6.80        4.55      11.35
Lot 2 - Fill material              368       246       614    1.51      1.00       2.51
Lot 3 - Roadways; water,
drainage, electrical
services; telephone and
fuel distribution                215       144      359    0.88       0.58       1.46
Lot 4 - Connecting existing
fishing berths                    61        40      101    0.25       0.16       0.41
Lot 5 - Drainage Canal V            29        19        48    0.11      0.08       0.19
2,340    1,561    3,901    9.55 51   6.37       15.92
2. Construction supervision             90       90       180    0.37      0.37       0.74
3. Technical Assistance
Personnel for fishing port
operations & training
(69 man-months)                   75        60      135    0.30       0.25      0.55
Analytical accounting &
cost-based tariffs
(54 man-months)                   30        45       75    0.12       0.19      0.31
"Ad valorem" tariff
structure for fish traffic
(12 man-months)                   15        10       25    0.06       0.04      0.10
120      115       235    0.48      0.48       0.96
4. Studies
Container Study
(about 30 man-months)             15        59       74    0.06      0,24       0.30
Fishing Sector Study 2/                                                     /2
(about 60 man-months)             25        98      123    0.10       0.40A-    0.50
40      157       197    0.16      0.64       0.80
5. Contingencies for Civil
Works
Physical (10%)                   234       156       390    0.95      0.64       1.59
Prices (average 22.5%)           579       386       965    2.36      1.58       3.94
813      542    1,355    3.31       2.22       5.53
TOTAL PROJECT COSTSI/          3,403    2_465    2_J6    13.8711  10.08         23.95
1/  Including US$2.7 million equivalent in taxes  (para. 4.27).
2/  PAD will be responsible for the entire project except the fishing sector study
which will be executed and paid for by the Government.  Accordingly, of the
proposed $6 million Loan to the Government on Third Window terms, only $5.6 million
will be re-lent to PAD on the same terms as a conventional Bank Loan.



- 43 -
Cost Estimates for Technical Assistance
4.30      Estimated costs for technical assistance services have been based on
the following:
(a) Six months followed by another period of 18 months
(of which 12 will be after the civil works are completed)
for both the fishing port manager and the fishing port
harbor master; a total of 48 man/months.
(b)  A period of up to 21 months for a fishing port planning
advisor. This would begin as soon as possible in order
that he prepares the land use pattern for the reclaimed
lands and plan the surfacing and services during their
contract periods without incurring additional expense
or delay.
(c)  A period of 15 months for a firm or individual experts
to advise the port on the preparation of cost-based
tariffs and analytical accounting; a total of
54 man-months.
(d) A period of about six months for advisors on the
application of an ad valorem tariff system for fish
traffic; a total of 12 man-months.
Thus a total of about 69 man-months are needed for the fishing port operations
and about 66 for the accounting and tariff needs. A figure of about $8,000
per man-month for expatriate experts (including direct and indirect costs) has
been used in calculating the costs, based on recent costs of experts in other
projects in Senegal and in West Africa generally.
4.31      Recruitment of the required expert staff will be through FAO
for the fishing port operations, and from consultants for the other items.
Although the experts will be obtained through FAO, they will be financed by
the Bank under this project.



- 44 -
Financing Plan
4.32      The proposed project financing plan is as follows:
(in US$ million equivalent)
Financing Arrangements
Costs                           on joint basis
Local    Foreign    Total       IBRD   BADEA   CCCE   PAD   GOVT.
1. Civil Works    12.86 1/   8.59       21.45      4.51    7.20   6.00  3.74 1/  -
(including
contingencies)
2. Construction
Supervision   0.37       0.37       0.74     0.37       -       -   0.37      -
3. Technical
Assistance    0.48       0.48       0.96      0.48      -       -   0.48      -
4. Studies          0.16       0.64      0.80      0.64       -      -   0.06   0.10
Total        13.87     10.08      23.95      6.00    7.20   6.00  4.65   0.10
Percentage of Total Cost                           (25%)  (30%)  (25%)(19.5%) (0.5%)
1/   Including US$2.7 million equivalent in taxes.
Signature of co-financing agreements with BADEA and CCCE will be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Loan.
Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique (BADEA)
4.33      BADEA has agreed to co-finance the project on a joint basis.
Normally, it would prefer parallel financing, but in this particular project
it was not possible to split off a section of the works for completely in-
dependent bidding and financing. Under the proposed joint financing arrange-
ment, BADEA has agreed that Bank procedures for procurement and project
supervision will be respected, and that the Bank will have the principal role
in the supervision (para. 4.37).
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
4.34      CCCE has agreed to finance the project civil works jointly with
the Bank, and under procurement and supervision procedures acceptable to
and agreed with the Bank.
Port Autonome de Dakar (PAD)
4.35      The level of PAD's contribution to the project (including in-
terest during construction) has been discussed and agreed, and is considered



- 45 -
appropriate to its financial ability. Details of PAD's current and expected
financial position are given in Chapter VI of this report.
Financing of Local Costs
4.36      The Government has agreed to exempt the project from all customs
duties and certain taxes. In previous projects for Senegal, it has been
accepted that because of its difficult public finance situation, the coun-
try is generally able to finance only 20-25% of project costs. For the pre-
sent project, PAD's contribution is proposed as US$4.65 million equivalent
(about 19.5% of costs) plus interest during construction estimated at US$3.31
million equivalent; the Government is providing US$100,000 equivalent towards
the fishing sector study. Under this proposal, the Bank, BADEA, and CCCE
will finance about 80% of total project costs (including applicable taxes),
corresponding to approximately 90% of the costs net of taxes and duties.
F. Execution
4.37      PAD is fully competent to execute the project, with the assistance
of engineering consultants for civil works construction supervision, and
technical assistance experts and other consultants for the studies. Consul-
tants for the supervision and control of civil works will be expected to work
closely with PAD's engineering staff so that the latter can obtain the maximum
benefit from being exposed to the operations involved in the construction
works, as well as the costing and control procedures. Details of all arrange-
ments for project implementation and supervision (in which the Bank will have
the principal role) as well as the time-table of execution shown below, have
been agreed with the Government, PAD, and the co-financers:
Year    1976       1977         1978        1979          1980
Quarter  2, 3 4     21      3  4   1  2  3 4
1. Civil Works:                 _
Invite tenders         a                 I
Tender Period (4 months + )  .
Report on Tenders,
Recommendations
Negotiate Loan
Present to Board                   *
Award Civil Works Contracts              I
Lot 1 Quay walls - construet
Lot 2 Filling material - place
Lot 3 Roads and services  plIc
Lot 4 Connecting existing quay                 I
Lot 5 CanalV                i
2. Consultants:
Supervise construction of works
3. Technical Assistance:
1. Fishing port operations  ;
2. Accounting and tariffs                              i
3. "Ad valorem" tariff study
4. Studies
1. Container study             .              ,
2. Fishing Sector study  I



- 46 -
F. Proiect Preparation and Procurement
4.38      PAD appointed, with Bank approval, consultants BCEOM (France)
for the detailed design and the tender procedure (terms of reference were
prepared in draft form by the Bank and completed by PAD). The project
was prepared on the understanding that tenders would be invited at an early
stage in the preparation schedule so that bid prices would be available
before Board presentation of the project without incurring a penalty for
keeping the tenders open beyond their valid dates. Tenders were accordingly
invited on May 15, 1976, received on September 15, 1976, and were evaluated
by BCEOM by October 15, 1976; PAD's agreement with the consultants for the
detailed design ended following receipt of its report and recommendations on
tenders. The above timing of the procurement procedure was adopted to avoid
the difficulties of obtaining accurate cost estimates which has been a problem
recently with other port projects in West Africa. Competitive tenders were
received which were well prepared (para. 4.40); the lowest tender is about
30% below the consultants' estimates at project appraisal, thus justifying the
procedure followed.
4.39      The civil works were divided into five lots for tender purposes.
International competitive bidding procedures in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines was used:
Lot 1. The construction in concrete blocks of 385 m of berth face
with a minimum depth alongside of 10 meters, and 1110 meters of berth face with
a minimum depth alongside of 7 meters. Also included in this lot is a section
of covered channel to permit tidal water circulation and the reconstruction of
the last section of the existing drainage canal no. V.
Lot 2. The provision and placing under controlled conditions of
3 -
750,000 m of selected filling material necessary to reclaim about 10.5 ha of
land. The fill will be hydraulic or dredged from approved sea floor areas
within PAD's boundaries.
Lot 3. The paving and surfacing of the reclaimed areas plus the
installation of all the necessary services such as water, gas-oil, electricity,
telephone lines, drainage, etc.
Lot 4. The demolition of the old slipway and associated buildings,
the filling of the area to design levels, and the construction of about 50
meters of berth face to connect the two sections of existing fishing berths.
Lot 5.  The construction of the future main access roadway to
the fishing port over the existing storm water drainage canal No. V. Services
and a silt trap are included.



- 47 -
4.40      Twenty-five contracting organizations indicated their interest
in the project, and 21 firms were subsequently prequalified for all or some
of the five lots. Contractors were invited to tender for all of the lots
or for a combination of lots for which they were pre-qualified. Contract
awards will be based on the lowest evaluated combination of bids, and will be
made only after the proposed Loan is approved by the Board. Civil works
construction is expected to start as soon as possible thereafter, and to
take about three years to complete.
4.41      All consultants and technical assistance experts required for the
project will be selected in agreement with, and on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
G. Disbursements
4.42      Disbursements from the proposed Loan will be made on the following
basis: for civil works, 21% of total costs (local costs of this item will
be shared pari passu among the co-financers); (ii) for consulting services
for construction supervision and technical assistance, 50% of total costs
(representing the estimated foreign exchange component); and (iii) for con-
sulting services for studies, 80% of total costs (representing the estimated
foreign exchange component).  The estimated schedule of disbursements from
the Loan Account is as follows:



- 48 -
IBRD Fiscal Year                Quarterly       Total Cumulative Disbursements
and                    Disbursements           at End of Quarter
Quarter Ending               -----------(in US$ million equivalent)---------
1976/77
June 77                            1.37                      1.37
1977/78
September 77                       0.70                      2.07
December 77                        0.82                      2.89
March 78                           0.55                      3.44
June 78                            0.45                      3.89
1978/79
September 78                       0.57                      4.46
December 78                        0.45                      4.91
March 79                           0.18                      5.09
June 79                            0.09                      5.18
1979/80
September 79                       0.30                      5.48
December 79                        0.30                      5.78
March 80                           0.07                      5.85
June 80                            0.06                      5.91
1980/81
September 80                       0.04                      5.95
December 80                        0.05                      6.00
H. Environmental Impact
4.43      The quality of the water in the port of Dakar is fairly good com-
pared with many other ports. However there is oily material floating on the
surface, and the quality of the water needs to be improved. PAD recently
purchased a catamaran oil skimmer to remove floating oil products. This
appears to work satisfactorily, but a problem arose concerning the disposal
of the oil and water mixture which was collected and for a while operations
had to cease. The disposal problem has been resolved, and it is now expected
that oil deposits on vessels and quay walls will be considerably reduced in
the future.



- 49 -
4.44      The configuration of the proposed fishing port includes the creation
of a sheltered basin. The entrance to the basin is up-wind of the prevailing
winds, and a thermal electricity generating station has its cooling water in-
take and discharge in the basin; also, a large stormwater canal discharges into
the basin. Because of these features, it is essential that water in the basin
should be able to circulate with tidal changes, and measures have been taken
to assure this.
4.45      Concern has been expressed that some fish landed at Dakar port are
contaiminated by phosphate dust from the bulk-loading facilities. This is
possible because many of the fishing vessels are now forced to use temporary
berths adjacent to the phosphate-loading berths, but the problem is expected
to disappear when all fishing vessels can use the new project site away from
these berths.
I. Employment and Urban Impact
4.46      The fishing industry based at Dakar currently employs about 5,500
people, of whom about 2,500 are crews and shore-based employees of the fish-
ing vessels. By 1987, the numbers of crew personnel employed are expected
ta increase only slightly due to larger ships and increased mechanization.
Processing plants employ about 2,000 on a permanent basis and about 800
temporary employees, and an additional 600 people are employed by foreign in-
dustries such as trucking, ice-making, net manufacturing etc. Shore-based
employment is expected to grow steadily through the 1980's.
4.47      The beneficial urban impact expected to result from development of
the fishing port is largely confined to renewal of the considerable land
areas adjacent to the port and shown in the zoning plan (IBRD Map 12251R).
Within the lands zoned for the fishing port operations and associated in-
dustries is a small area presently occupied by about 100 people engaged in
small fish-drying and salting and catering businesses. Since these people
will be displaced by the proposed renewal, PAD has arranged to provide a new
building near the entrance to the fishing port where they can be re-located,
and where the catering services can be undertaken under conditions much more
hygienic than at present, and with proper sanitation facilities and other
amenities. Construction of this building is expected to start shortly.



- 50 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      The port of Dakar is the only base available in Senegal for indus-
trial fishing vessels. It is also one of the most attractive ports in the
area for foreign fishing fleets operating along the West African coast,
primarily because of the existence of large fish resources off the coast of
Senegal, as well as the availability of a variety of good port services
(bunkering, ship repair, revictualling, import/export services). As a result,
the Dakar fishing industry has grown very rapidly (at an estimated 18% per
annum) over the past decade, and further development of the local fishing
industry would be severly hampered if adequate fishing port facilities were
not provided.
B. Traffic Forecasts
5.02      Traffic forecasts were based on a study made by consultants SCET/
SONED (France/Senegal) and revised by FAO and Bank staff at appraisal in asso-
ciation with the Directorate of Oceanography and Maritime Fishing and the
Oceanographic Institute of Dakar.
5.03      The fishing fleets operating in Dakar can be divided into four
categories:
(a)  Vessels (foreign and Senegalese) permanently based in
Dakar which land almost all their catches in Dakar for
processing and export.
(b)  Foreign fleets operating in Senegalese waters, not
permanently based in Dakar, but which according to
fishing agreements, have to land part of their catches
in Dakar for processing.
(c)  Foreign fleets operating along the north-western stretch
of the West African coast which use the port as a shore
leave station for bunkers, repairs, chandlery and provi-
sions and which may occasionally discharge their catches
for temporary preservation in cold storage plants before
re-export in refrigerated vessels.
(d)  Foreign fleets, mainly Russian, Eastern European and Greek,
which transship directly from fishing vessels to refrigerated
cargo ships; generally these operations do not require berthing
facilities as they are conducted in the sheltered anchorage
outside the port breakwaters.



- 51 -
5.04      The categories of fleets listed in (a) and (b) above are expected
to generate the most important traffic growth at Dakar port, since the Gov-
ernment's objective is to give priority to the development of local process-
ing activities for export. In order to achieve this, several important
measures will have to be undertaken: (i) modernization of the Dakar-based
industrial fishing fleet; (ii) strict enforcement of recent fishing agree-
ments with foreign Governments; and (iii) encouragement of joint ventures
with foreign firms willing to invest in vessels and processing plants in
Dakar, and to assist Senegalese fleets with fishing operations.  The Govern-
ment has provided assurances under the proposed project that it will take
all appropriate measures to achieve these objectives.
Landings for Local Processing Plants
Sardinella, horse mackerel and mackerel (Pelagic)
5.05      Sardinella and horse mackerel will constitute the bulk of the an-
ticipated landings of fish at Dakar. The total potential annual catch along
the continental shelf of Mauritania, Senegal and the Gambia is estimated at
about 1.6 million tons -- 750,000 tons from Mauritania and 850,000 tons from
Senegal and the Gambia. Even if the Gambia expanded its fishing activities,
prospects for increased volumes of sardinella and horse mackerel in Dakar are
considerable and could in the long run probably reach 400,000 to 500,000 tons
per annum, assuming Senegal carries out present plans to develop domestic
sardine seiner fleets for supplying the fish needs for West African countries.
In the short and medium terms, the rate of growth of landings in Dakar will
depend on (i) the creation of new fishing port facilities for berthing and
unloading large seiners; (ii) the ability of the local fishing industry to
modernize and extend its fishing fleet; and (iii) the commercial dynamism of
Senegalese entrepreneurs in competing with Russian fleets for the considerable
African markets. The Ivory Coast, Ghana, and Nigeria alone are expected to
import about 450,000 tons of frozen sardines in 1980 and over 650,000 tons in
1990. Another favorable factor for the commercial development of pelagic
species is the recent Government decision to relax its restrictions on the
development of fishmeal by the reduction of low grade pelagic fish such as
tropical horse mackerel. The completion with (Danish assistance) of a new
fishmeal plant of SAFCOP (Societe Africaine de Commercialisation des Produits
de la Peche) will increase the total capacity of Dakar fishmeal plants to
50,000 tons by the end of 1977 (equivalent to total present landings of the
Dakar-based seiner fleet).
5.06      The traffic forecast best estimate under the project assumes a
rate of growth of about 10% per annum during the next decade (as against
35% per annum growth rate during the past decade). Landings would increase
from the present 57,000 tons to about 80,000 tons in 1979, 150,000 tons in
1983, and 200,000 tons in 1987. Those trends which take into account possible
financial difficulties for the modernization and expansion of the sardine
seiner fleet (estimated needs US$25 million during the next decade) can be
considered conservative taking into account the volume of fish stocks. This
forecast is about 35% lower than Government objectives for 1981.



- 52 -
5.07      An analysis of berthing requirements confirms that the total length
of quays needed to accommodate sardine seiners could by 1978-79 reach about
750 meters, i.e., the total length of the existing berthing facilities now
allocated to all fishing vessels. Without the project, total landing capacity
would be limited to a maximum of 100,000 tons, assuming that about 50% to 60%
of operations would be authorized in the commercial port.
Demersal species
5.08      At present only 14,000 tons of demersal fish per annum (of a poten-
tial catch of 50-60,000 tons) are caught by Dakar trawler fleets, mainly
because their interest is focussed on the more valuable sole, mullet and
snapper species for export to Europe. With the Government's plan to develop
the export of high value sole fillets, landings will increase. A market of
30,000 tons of fillets per year (from 50,000 tons of fish) has been identified,
and thus adequate berthing for larger freezer trawlers must be provided. It is
estimated that landings would reach 45,000 tons during the 1980's of which
25,000 tons by Dakar-based fleets and 20,000 tons by foreign fleets as a
consequence of their countries' fishing agreements (see para. 3.27 et seq.).
Without the project, this increase would be difficult to achieve, but because
these species are of high value, landings by the Dakar-based fleets will
increase even in the "without" case, and could reach 24,000 tons per annum by
1987; landings by foreign fleets will however be hampered by lack of berthing
facilities, and will be limited to about 10,000 tons expected mainly as a re-
sult of the recent fishing agreement with Spain (para. 32.9). (See Table 2).
Shrimp
5.09      The Dakar fleet normally lands about 3,500 to 4,000 tons of pink
shrimp per annum. No significant increase is foreseen for this sector of
the industry as the exploitable stocks in the area are limited to about
5,000 tons per annum. Furthermore, according to recent fishing agreements,
Spain has agreed to land 1,400 tons of deep-sea shrimp per year; total land-
ings could then possibly reach a maximum of about 5,500 tons per annum, of
which 35% would probably be caught off the Gambia and the Bissagos Islands.
These forecasts are based on the present de facto reciprocal fishing agree-
ments between Senegal and neighboring countries (the Gambia and Guinea Bissau)
for exploitation of protected waters.
Octopus
5.10      The potential octopus catch in Senegalese waters is 30,000 tons
per annum. Fishing for octopus was introduced recently by the Japanese who
were already exploiting adjacent Mauritanian waters. Subsequently Spain and
Italy, which are faced with deteriorating octopus supplies in their tradi-
tional fishing grounds as a result of pollution, have indicated their inten-
tion to begin fishing in Senegalese waters, and thus it is expected that the
potential catch will be fully exploited by 1980. There is considerable
uncertainty regarding the likely share of production between the Dakar fleet
and the Japanese and other foreign fleets. Considering the very special



- 53 -
fishing techniques required for this activity, it is very likely that the bulk
of production will be realized by foreign fleets in joint venture with the
Senegalese industry. The foreign fleets will probably land their catches
at Dakar for the preparation of fillets and freezing. This production re-
quires efficient unloading operations, and will be seriously handicapped
if berthing facilities are inadequate. Without the project, landings would
limited to a maximum of 10,000 tons, i.e. the equivalent of the catch of
only 15 large trawlers.
Tuna
5.11      As no significant development of the overall capacity of the Dakar
fleet is envisaged, the prospect of development of tuna fishing will depend
on the improvement of operations of the Government-owned fleet, the former
Societe Senegalese d'Armement a la Peche (SOSAP). In spite of its large
deficit (see para. 3.20), SOSAP had begun to modernize part of its fleet
through a program of replacing small seiners by large transoceanic ones, and
improving the maintenance of vessels and the quality of the crews. The
Government has taken steps to enable the Dakar tuna-seiner fleet to continue
operating but under much more efficient management, and it is estimated that
landings will increase from the present low 5,000-9,000 ton level without the
project, to about 12,000 tons on project completion. The difference is
equivalent to the production of one large oceanic tuna-seiner.
5.12      The supply of fresh tuna which is indispensable to the activity
of the local canning industry is expected to be maintained at its p;esent
level of about 7,000 tons, with or without the project. This implies the
progressive replacement of the existing 28 pole line vessels, now at the end
of their economic life, with approximately a similar number of combination
trawlers/pole line vessels.
5.13      Because the tuna supplied by the Dakar fleet represents a maximum
of only 55% of the processing capacity of local canning plants, the Government
has recently requested in fishing agreements that the catches of foreign tuna
vessels operating in Senegalese waters should be landed in Dakar for process-
ing. Some 10,000 to 15,000 additional tons of frozen tuna are expected to be
landed in Dakar under existing fishing agreements. Since these agreements will
be enforced, 34,000 tons of tuna can be forecast to land in Dakar for processing
provided adequate berthing facilities are available. Without the project, it
will be difficult for the foreign fleets to respect the agreements, and landings
would be limited to only about 26,000 tons per annum.
5.14      The following table summarizes the expected total landings at Dakar
port with and without the proposed project, but excluding occasional landings
for temporary storage by foreign fleets:



- 54 -
(in '000 tons)
Other Species
Total landings       Pelagic         Dakar fleets    Foreign fleet
Without   With   Without   With   Without   With   Without  With
1974             81                50               29                   1
1976             95                57               31                   7
1980            154     180        81       89      48        52        25     39
1983            164     255        89      149      50        54        25     52
1987            180     313       104      200      51        61        25     52
(i)  With the project, total landings at Dakar for processing and
local consumption could climb from an estimated 95,000 tons in 1976 to 313,000
tons in 1987, an increase of 218,000 tons. About two-thirds of this increase
would be sardinella and pelagic fish, landings of which could reach 200,000
tons by the end of the 1980's. These forecasts are conservative for pelagic
fish, since they assume a volume of landings for fishmeal production based on
the present underutilized capacity of the fishmeal plants. No detailed
estimates for traffic growth have been made beyond 1987 when the proposed
fishing port will have reached its capacity.  Some increase in pelagic fish
traffic might occur after that date if catches of foreign fleets are res-
tricted and local fleets continue to expand. A clearer idea of long-term
development of the fishing sector will result following preparation of a plan
of action on the basis of studies to be carried out under the proposed project.
(ii)  Without the project, the increase in total landings from 1976 to
1987 would be only about 85,000 tons. This estimate is based on a survey of
investment programs of the fleets, an analysis of the operation of each type
of fishing vessel, and an estimate of maximum berthing facilities. The
studies indicate that the lack of specialized berthing facilities for fishing
vessels would not only limit calls at Dakar of larger trawlers and tuna
seiners, but would reduce by about 50% the development of local handling of
pelagic fish which requires considerable length of quay. Detailed traffic
forecasts by type of fleet and fish species caught are presented in Tables 2-4.
Temporary cold storage and transshipment
5.15      During recent years, important additional traffic in direct trans-
shipment and temporary storage of frozen products has been generated by fleets
operating along the north-western part of the West African continental shelf.
The volume of direct transshipment from trawler to refrigerated cargo vessels
is relatively stable, averaging 25,000 to 30,000 tons per annum, but landings
for temporary storage in freezing plants ashore can vary from 25,000 to as
much as 50,000 tons per year. Future development of these two types of
operations will be stimulated by Government incentives favoring the supply of
local processing plants by foreign fleets, as well as by the availability of
adequate berthing facilities and services (ship repair) to fishing vessels.



- 55 -
5.16      Without the project, it is likely that landings for temporary stor-
age would decrease. Because of congestion in the fishing port, the fleet
would prefer to undertake direct transshipment. In this case, landings for
cold storage are expected to decline to 5,000 tons but transshipment traffic
could be maintained at its present level of about 20,000 tons. With adequate
berthing facilities the opposite trend might be observed. Direct transship-
ment, which is a long and costly operation both for the fishing vessels and
refrigerated cargo ships, could decrease by 10,000 to 15,000 tons but land-
ing ashore for temporary storage could possibly maintain its present level
of about 20,000 to 30,000 tons per annum.
C. Project Benefits
5.17      Present congestion in the fishing berths results in some 6,000
unnecessary fishing vessel movements per year as the vessels seek space
throughout the port area to land their catches, take on fuel, ice, and
supplies, and carry out maintenance.
5.18      Construction of the project would ensure sufficient berth space
to satisfy the needs of the fishing fleet until late 1980s, thus eliminat-
ing the existing congestion. The rational layout of the new facilities
will provide cheaper and more efficient services for both domestic and
foreign fleets. The project forms part of an overall Government plan to
coordinate and develop a modern fishing sector, and it is linked with other
major sector investments, some of which are already underway (i.e. the new
small ship building, repair and drydock facility recently put into operation,
modernization and enlargement of the domestic fishing fleets, and expansion
of the fish processing plants). The completed project will also enable the
Government to fulfill its objective of making the port of Dakar an attractive
base of operations for foreign fleets operating along the West Africa coast,
and by so doing, developing the scope for local service industries and in-
creasing exports.
5.19      The economic rate of return for the project has been calculated
by comparing the cost of the proposed investment with the benefits which will
accrue to 'captive' traffic, i.e. traffic in the "without" case. The latter
is not a "do nothing" solution because it may be assumed that even without the
project, congestion pressures will force some port improvements to be made on
behalf of the fishing fleet, i.e. additional berth space could be obtained by
partial use of the adjacent berths used for the maintenance of buoys and
navigation lights, and by increasing the berth space assigned to fishing
vessels within the commercial port area.
5.20      The evaluation indicates that the project will provide an
attractive rate of return on the investments under conservative benefit



- 56 -
assumptions. The most significant benefits accrue from the cost savings
resulting from the improvement in port operations for fishing vessels and
general cargo vessels. Other quantifiable benefits directly attributable
to the project include: (a) increased production by the fishing fleets as
a consequence of reduced time spent in port; (b) tax revenues from increased
sales of fuels and supplies to foreign fleets; and (c) improved productivity
by the processing plants which presently operate at only 50% of their rated
capacity.  Considered, but not quantified, are the benefits from fish traffic
which would be induced by the project subject to the infusion of additional
capital for new vessels and increased fish plant capacity.
5.21      In calculating the economic rate of return for the project, all
economic benefits are assumed to remain constant after 1987 when the full
capacity of the fishing port is reached. Shadow pricing has been applied
to labor on the basis of the extensive survey carried out by consultants
SCET (France) and SONED (Senegal) on the composition and qualification
of labor, and compensation for each activity. The economic cost of labor
is 70% of the wage rates for the small fishing vessel crews formerly employed
in the traditional sector. For labor-intensive activities such as canning
of prepared fish fillets which employs large numbers of short-term female
labor, the economic cost has been estimated at only 50% of the actual wage
rates. No shadow rate of exchange has been used, and calculations have been
based on the rate of CFAF 1.0=FF 0.02 (US$1 = CFAF 245).
I. Operational Cost Savings
5.22      The existing congestion in the fishing berth facilities results
in either berthing delays or diversion of fishing craft to berthing space
in the commercial port area. About 40% of the landings of the Dakar-based
fleet and all of the landings of the foreign fleets are made at some 14 berths
in the commercial port. Since cargo vessels have first priority, the fishing
vessels must move to another berth space when a cargo vessel is announced.
Frequent movements to a succession of berths under these conditions not only
reduces operational efficiency and the quality of the fish landed, but also
increases the time required for berthing, and the costs for servicing, repair,
and maintenance of fishing vessels.
5.23      Specific benefits to be derived from the proposed operational
improvements include: (i) savings in fish losses and damage; (ii) savings
in handling costs; (iii) time savings for freezer cargo movements; (iv)
avoidance of ship-to-ship transshipment; and (v) savings to cargo vessels.
These savings relate to the forecast of fish landings that would take place in
the "without" case, and are described and quantified below. They are tabu-
lated and summarized in Table 5, together with the other quantifiable benefits
outlined in para. 5.20 above.



- 57 -
(i) Savings in Fish Losses and Damage
(a) Fresh Fish Landing Operations
5.24      The percentage of lost or spoiled fish during landing operations
is presently excessive (at about 1.5% of landings), mainly due to the
necessary use of the commercial port with its high quay walls, lack of suit-
able fish-handling equipment, multiple handling operations, and frequent
interruptions. It is anticipated that when the project is in full operation,
these losses will decrease to about 1.0%. The weight of fish saved will be
about 850 tons in 1980 immediately after completion of the project, rising
to an estimated 1,330 tons by 1987. Assuming an average fish value of
CFAF 70/kg and CFAF 61/kg respectively for these years, total savings would
amount to CFAF 60 million in 1980 and CFAF 80 million by 1987, 1/ of which
about 60% would accrue to Senegal (Tables 5 and 6).
(b) Exports of Frozen Fish Products
5.25      Following completion of the project, loading operations for export
fish products will be made at or near the cold stores (Tables 3 and 4). This
is expected to reduce handling operations and on-shore losses by about 0.4% of
the total export tonnage, or the equivalent of about 280 tons in 1980 and 560
tons by 1987. Assuming average frozen fish values of respectively CFAF 138/kg
and CFAF 101/kg for these years, total savings are estimated to amount to
CFAF 37 million in 1980 and CFAF 57 million by 1987, 1/ of which an estimated
65% will accrue to Senegalese processing plants.
(ii) Savings in Handling Costs
5.26      Handling costs are currently adversely affected by the same conges-
tion factors referred to above.  The situation is aggravated by the fact
that the commercial berths are frequently far away from the fish-processing
plants, and cargoes must therefore be trucked considerable distances, some-
times through the port's customs facilities, with further bureaucratic de-
lays. Fish cargo handling costs have increased by about 50% over the last two
years as a result of congestion, and will continue to increase rapidly without
the facilities offered by the project.
5.27      Calculations summarized hereunder include costs related to on-
board and shore transport operations for loading and unloading between
ship and fish-processing plants. Economic costs, net of taxes, are based
on a shadow price of labor equivalent to 60% of the average wage rate.
1/   The lower per kg value indicated for 1987 reflects the greater propor-
tion of lower-priced fish in the overall volume, i.e. sardinella will
make up a larger proportion of fish caught and processed.



- 58 -
5.28      Upon completion of the project, significant reduction in handling
costs will accrue from:
-    the ability to land and load fish at specialized berths
using conveyor belts, mobile cranes, fish pumps (for
sardinella), and other related equipment;
-    the concentration of landing and loading berths adjacent
to the cold stores and processing plants;
-    the provision of bunkering, water and shore power out-
lets, ice, workshops and stores on the berths, together
with adjacent open areas for net and trawl repairs, all
of which will simplify and cheapen the servicing of
vessels;
-    the avoidance of bureaucratic and traffic delays con-
nected with transit through the commercial port;
-    adequate access to the area of the fishing port zoned
for the fishing industry.
(a) Discharge and Landing Operations
5.29      Fishing fleet unloading costs average CFAF 1,200 per ton, ranging
from CFAF 900 per ton for small ice trawlers to CFAF 1,800 per ton or more
for large freezer trawlers and tuna seiners.  Following construction of the
project in 1980, average handling costs for discharge and landing are expected
to drop by CFAF 210 per ton, with a range of CFAF 120 per ton for small
trawlers with low on-board costs, to as much as CFAF 250-300 per ton for the
large sardine seiners and tuna freezer seiners where on-board discharge opera-
tions can be highly mechanized.
5.30      Cost savings are expected to increase progressively to CFAF 400 per
ton as the fleets evolve into a preponderance of refrigerated vessels and
large sardine boats. The following table shows the estimated savings result-
ing from the improvements in discharge and landing operations:
Year           Landing           Savings per ton            Total Savings
(000 tons)              (CFAF)                 (Million CFAF)
1980            159                   212                         34
1983            169                   333                         56
1987            185                   400                         74
(b) Frozen Fish Loadings
5.31      For the eost common modern refrigerated fish carrier vessels (90 m
in length, 3,000 m capacity) which may load an average cargo of about 600 tons



- 59 -
of frozen products through two hatches, the costs of loading presently
average CFAF 2,200 per ton, but may vary widely from CFAF 1,500 to over
CFAF 3,500 per ton, depending on the number of hatches worked, the distance
to the cold stores, the labor make-up (skilled or casual) and the quality of
labor supervision. Without the project these costs will increase as more
and more vessels will be diverted to the commercial port with increased
handling have been estimated as follows:
Year           Exports           Savings per ton           Total Savings
(000 tons)              (CFAF)                 (Million CFAF)
1980            73                    310                         23
1983            88                    350                         31
1987            99                    400                        40
Since a large part of these improvements in handling operations will benefit
the foreign fishing vessels, processing plants, and stevedoring companies,
only about 50% of the benefits will accrue to Senegal (Tables 5 and 6).
(c) Freezer Cargo Time Savings
5.32      Freezer cargo ships calling at Dakar for exports of frozen fish
products will benefit from reduction of servicing time with completion of
the project (Table 4). At the present loading rate (about Il tons per hour),
it takes about 55 hours to load an average cargo of about 600 tons. With the
higher handling rates expected after completion of the project (15 tons per
hour), the time spent servicing the ships would be reduced to 40 hours. On
the basis of information supplied by shipping companies and processing plants,
average ship-waiting time cost is about US$80 per hour. The savings due
to better handling would amount to US$1,200 per call or US$2 per ton. With
expected growth in export traffic (see para. 5.25 above), total savings
might well reach CFAF 36 million in 1980 and a maximum of CFAF 49 million
in 1987. Since this traffic will be carried on charter terms with freight
rates sensitive to port conditions, these benefits will accrue almost en-
tirely to the local (mainly Senegalese) processing plants.
(d) Avoidance of Transshipment Costs
5.33      With expanded berthing facilities, the foreign fleets carrying
out direct ship-to-ship transshipment from fishing vessels to fish cargo
carriers would very likely reduce these long and expensive operations and
use shore storage facilities. Quantified cost reductions for these opera-
tions have been estimated at CFAF 2,300 per ton from:
(i)  reduction of fish losses which occur during ship-to-
ship transshipment operations. On the basis of infor-
mation obtained from stevedoring firms and BEMOP (the
stevedoring labor union in Dakar port) who occasionally



- 60 -
assist in such operations, it would appear that a sav-
ings of at least 0.6-0.7% of the fish handled can be
achieved. With an average price of CFAP 100/kg, these
savings amount to CFAF 650 per ton;
(ii)  reduction in time needed to service the fish carriers
since the alongside operations will be more efficient,
i.e. Il tons per hour ship-to-shore instead of 5 tons
per hour ship-to-ship at present. Thus, for a fish
carrier loading 400 tons of fish, the total time saved
could reach 44 hours, which with ship time conservatively
estimated at US$80 per hour (taking into account that part
of the fish carriers fleet includes converted old-large
freezer trawlers) amounts to CFAF 2,160 per ton.
These savings will largely compensate the CFAF 500 per ton increase in handling
costs anticipated for double-handling (discharging catches and loading fish
carriers), and the use of BEMOP labor instead of fishing vessel crews.
5.34      For the 7,000 tons of frozen demersal species and tuna which are
expected to be diverted annually from transshipment to shore storage, the
total savings will amount to CFAF 16 million. The majority of these benefits
will accrue to foreign fleets.
(e) Savings in General Cargo Ship Operations
5.35      The shortage of berth space in the present fishing port forces an
increasing number of fishing vessels to seek berth space in the commercial
port. The fishing-vessel operations (excluding trans-shipment) are mainly
concentrated at about 14 berths located at Mole IV (groundnuts, cakes, and
rice); Mole VI (bulk groundnuts, oil, and wine); Mole I (general cargo,
containers, wheat, corn, millet, and sorghum); and shore berths 112 and 122
(break-bulk cargo and cereals).
5.36      Up to now, this procedure although very inconvenient and costly
for fishing vessels, has not seriously affected the productivity of cargo
ship operations, since fishing vessels have to move to another available
berthing place when a cargo ship is announced.
5.37      This situation will change dramatically as fishing and commercial
traffic grows. An analysis of berthing facility requirements both for fish-
ing and commercial vessels indicates that by the mid-1980's, in the "without"
case, up to 900 to 1,000 meters of berth of the commercial port will be
needed for fishing vessels. Assuming a maximum rate of occupancy of the
commercial berths of 75% (including fishing vessels double- or triple-banked),
analysis indicates that by 1987, up to 18 commercial berths out of a total of
36 would be needed for fishing vessels to land their catches. This "invasion"
by fishing vessels of half of the available berths of the commercial port,
along with the presence of fishing equipment, would significantly affect
loading and discharge operations of cargo vessels during peak traffic periods.



- 61 -
5.38      Expected savings from the project are:
(a) reduction of shore handling costs (about CFAF 172 per
ton) for general cargo which is expected to increase
from 570,000 tons in 1980 to 1,100,000 tons in 1987
at berths occupied by fishing vessels. Total savings
will thus amount to CFAF 84 million in 1980, and in-
crease to CFAF 127 million in 1983 and CFAF 191 mil-
lion (US$0.8 million) in 1987.
(b) savings in ship turn-around time through avoidance of
reduced handling productivity at general cargo berths
occupied by fishing vessels as shown below:
1980     1983         1987
Minimum No. of berths occupied by
fishing vessels 1/                    14        15       17/18
General cargo traffic (000 tons)       805    1,018         1,513
Handling rate (ton/days)
Without project                     580       550         550
With project                        620       620          620
Ship servicing time savings
(days/year)                           90      210          310
Average tramp and liner
cost in port (CFAF/hour)          37,700   38,200       38,500
Total savings in cargo ship
servicing time (CFAF million)         82       193         286
(c) avoided cargo ship wating time which will occur during
peak traffic. At the berths used by fishing vessels,
the occupancy rate (calculated on a basis of 280 work-
ing days per year) will consistently average about 75%,
instead of 44% in 1980 and 66% in 1987, if traffic were
to be limited to general cargo movements. For such high
occupancy rates, it can be estimated from calculations
1/   Assuming that the present PAD policy of minimizing the number of the
commercial port berths used by fishing vessels will continue to reduce
the disturbance of cargo ship/shore operations.



- 62 -
in the Port Master Plan Study that cargo ship waiting
time savings for the group of 14-18 berths considered
could reach at least 5% of turn-around time, i.e. 70
days in 1980 increasing to 140 days by 1987. Savings
can thus be conservatively estimated at CFAF 62 million
in 1980 and CFAF 127 million in 1987 based on ship
costs stated above.
5.39      An analysis of general cargo shipments shows that during the 1974-76
period, about 65-70% of traffic at these berths (groundnut products, dry
exports, and liquid bulk imports) was carried on charter terms. Conference
liners carried the balance (mainly break-bulk cargo imports). Because charter
and tramp operations are competitive along the West African coast, freight
rates are sensitive to port conditions, and it can be expected that ship
time savings for this category of traffic will be passed on th country
through improved voyage/time rates. It has been conservatively estimated that
only 40% of liner time savings will pass to the country through freight rate
adjustments, taking into account that these savings will accrue only to a
limited part of total liner traffic, and mainly to imports. As cost savings
on shore-handling operations are reflected in the price of goods, the major
part of these benefits will pass to Senegalese consumers (imports) or local
enterprises (exports). Taking into account possible transfer overseas of
benefits by foreign-owned enterprises, it can be assumed that at least 80%
of these benefits will accrue to the country. Total benefits for Senegal
accruing from the improvement of cargo ship operations (including freezer
cargo for exports of fish products) can be summarized as follows:
1980               1983            1987
Total  Senegal    Total  Senegal   Total  Senegal
Ship-time savings           144      109       278      206      413     300
Handling-cost savings        84       67       127      102      191      153
Total savings               228      176       405      308      604      453
II. Other Quantified Project Benefits
(i) Increased Fishing Fleet Production
(a) Dakar-based Fleets
5.40      Improved operations in loading, unloading, and servicing of the
fishing fleet at Dakar port resulting from the project will not only reduce
costs, but also will avoid delays in port and thus reduce turn-around time.
While discretion suggests a cautious approach to the application of time
saved to increased productivity, it is clear that additional scope will
exist for fishing. An analysis of time savings indicated that ranges of
from two hours per call for the small trawlers and handliners to 15 hours
for large oceanic tuna vessels would result. This saving in port opera-
tions represents the equivalent of some 1,200 fishing days by 1980 and
1,700 days by 1987.  Assuming that:



- 63 -
-    an average of only 56% of this time saving will be
effectively allocated to fishing (the percentage
will vary from 33% for small handliners and pole
and line tuna vessels, to 66% for the large freezer
trawlers and oceanic tuna vessels); and
-    an average daily catch per vessel increasing (allowing
for anticipated changes in the composition of the
fleet) from 16 tons in 1980 to 20 tons by 1987,
the total additional catches by the Dakar-based fleets could reach 10,000
tons by 1980 and 19,000 tons by 1987.
5.41      The economic benefit from the increased production is expected to
average CFAF 3,100/ton in 1980 and CFAF 2,700/ton in 1987, taking into
account the increasing percentage of low-value fish (sardinella) during the
period. Total benefits for the Dakar-based fleets could then amount to
CFAF 32 million in 1980 and reach at least CFAF 50 million in 1987. The
basic assumptions used for these estimated benefits are summarized in the
following table:
1980     1987
1.   Total calls ("without" case)                   7208      7669
2.   Time saving/call (hours) on:
Waiting before unloading                       1.0       1.5
Unloading                                      1.4       1.5
Servicing, maintenance, etc.                   1.5      2.3
3.9      5.3
3.   Total time savings (days)                      1174      1706
4.   Time saved allocated to fishing (days)          658       958
5.   Average catches/fishing day                    15.7      19.7
6.   Fleet benefit/ton (CFAF)                       3100      2700
7.   Total benefits (million CFAF)                    32        50
(b) Foreign fleets
5.42      Similar calculations have been made for foreign fleets which call
in Dakar from time to time to land part of their catches for processing (about
25,000 tons/year) or for temporary storage before re-export (5,000 tons).
From the analysis of port operations and the fishing performance of these
vessels (mainly large freezer trawlers and tuna seiners), it is estimated
that the reduction of time in port due to the improved port operations after



- 64 -
the completion of the project could increase f rom 220 days in 1980 to 350
days in 1987. Assuming that (i) about 50% of time saving in port operations
will be allocated to fishing; (ii) an average catch of about 5 tons/day for
these types of vessels (mainly trawlers) at sea; and (iii) an average net
benefit of about CFAF 13,000/ton total; benefits for these fleets can be
expected to reach CFAF 7 million in 1980 and increase to CFAF 11 milllion in
1987.
(ii) Processing Plant Benefits
5.43      Analysis of the sector development over the last ten years shows
that the local processing plants have always foreseen increased fish landings.
The plants presently operate at only 50% of their maximum capacity as a
result of recent modernization and extension. Utilization of the plants
will improve as fish landings increase.  However, the new fishing agreements
with other countries which demand investment in shore processing facilities
will cause the total plant capacity to continue to increase, and thus excess
capacity will always be present. In calculating the economic return of
the project, it has been conservatively estimated that an average excess
capacity equal to at least 10% of the landings in the "without" case, i.e.
15,000 to 19,000 tons per annum, will exist during the 1980-87 period. Local
economic benefits generated from processing these increased fish landings will
be directly attributable to the project (compared to the "without" case), as
it will not require additional Senegalese investments for fleet expansion or
processing plants since the fish will come from the catches of the foreign
fleets or from increased production expected from improved turnaround time.
5.44      Analysis of the operating accounts for eight major types of process-
ing activities shows that the economic benefits of the plants (net profits,
taxes paid by plants, difference between wage rates and the shadow price
of labor) will range from CFAF 6,700/ton for low value added activities such
as fish reduction (fishmeal) to about CFAF 50,000/ton for high-profit and
labor-intensive activities. About 80% of these benefits will remain in
Senegal. On the basis of an average benefit of CFAF 29,000/ton in 1980
decreasing with the development of sardinella products to about CFAF 20,000/ton
in 1987, processing plants' benefits can be estimated as follows:
1980     1983      1987
Additional landings (000 t)
(plants' excess capacity)                18.0      14.8     16.4
Benefits/kg (CFAF)
Total /1                              29        21       20
For Senegal                           23        17       16
Plants' benefits (million CFAF)
Total                                522       309      325
For Senegal /1                       420       252      266
/1   Excluding net profits transferred abroad.



- 65 -
(iii) Additional Benefits from Fuel Sales
5.45      Indirect benefits will accrue to Senegal from fuel sales to fish-
ing vessels making additional landings quantified above, and freezer ships
exporting the additional processed frozen fish. With the present fuel price
structure for fishing and marine operations, these benefits (specific taxes
on fish, and profits of enterprises in charge of bunkering) amount to
CFAF 6,800/ton of fuel sold to fishing vessels, and CFAF 10,400/ton of fuel
sold to cargo ships. Analysis of Dakar bunkering operations shows that these
benefits will average 0.53 tons of fuel per ton of fresh fish landed in 1980,
0.35 tons in 1987 with changes in the composition of the fleets, and only 0.33
tons of fuel per call for a medium-size freezer cargo vessel with an average
cargo of 600 tons. These figures take into account that part of the bunkering
operations which take place outside of Dakar are for large fishing vessels and
fish carriers. Benefits for Senegal attributable to sales of fuel are shown
below:
1980    1983       1987
Additional sales of fuel (tons)
Fishing vessels                         9600      2500     2350
Freezer ships                            510       470       530
Additional benefits (CFAF Million)
Fishing vessels                           66        37        38
Freezer ships                              5         5         6
71       42        44
5.46      Total quantified benefits streams attributable to the project, adopted
for calculating the project's economic return, are given in Table 5.  They can
be summarized as follows:
Operational Cost Savings    Processing Plant
Fishing    Commercial       and Bunkering
Vessels      Ships            Benefits             Total
-----------------(CFAF Million)----------------------
1980               228       245                   593             1066
1983               405       302                   351             1058
1987               604       379                   369             1352
5.47      Local benefits, i.e. which would remain in Senegal, exclude benefits
and expatriate wages transferred abroad by fishing fleets, fish-processing
plants, part of ship-time savings or handling costs allocated to liners or
fish freezer carriers. These benefits will represent about 70% of
total benefits (Table 6).



- 66 -
III. Other Non-Quantified Benefits
5.48      The scope for potential benefits is far greater than outlined above.
The creation of an integrated fishing port facility will permit a basic expan-
sion of the fishing and fish-processing industries with a host of associated
activities such as ice-making, bunkering, ship-chandling, ship-repairing, etc.
Quantification of such benefits would require parallel assumptions with
respect to additional capital investments in vessels, plant, structures, and
equipment, which lie well beyond the scope of this project. Finally, there
are other benefits which do not lend themselves to quantification in a reliable
manner, but which are nonetheless substantial; these include benefits to ser-
vices and corporations involved in export activities, reduced risk of pollution
in the port area, and improved berthing conditions for the fishing fleet in
inclement weather.
IV. Project Costs
5.49      The project cost streams for the economie calculation have been
made by removing customs duties, local taxes, and price contingencies from
the financial cost of the project. This expresses economic costs in terms
of 1976 prices.
5.50      These costs include:
(i) civil works and supervision costs of the project;
(ii) PAD capital expenses for routine and periodic
maintenance over the 50-year expected life of the
basic infrastructure; and
(iii)   PAD costs for relocating people involved in catering
services displaced by the project, and for conversion
of the buoy tender berth to fishing vessel operations.



- 67 -
These cost streams are as follows:
Berth                PAD
Construction        Additional
Cost         Capital Costs        Total Costs
--------------(in CFAF Million)----------------
1977                             1529               -                 1529
1978                             1368               50                1418
1979                             609                50                 659
1980                               64                -                  64
1981                                               150                 150
1982                                               150                 150
1983                                                10                  10
1984                                                15                  15
1985                                                25                  25
1986                                                45                  45
1987 and after                                      55                  55
V.   Economic Return
(j) Overall Economic Return
5.51      On the basis of former assumptions for quantification of benefits,
the project will yield an overall rate of return, i.e. for all port users, of
about 23% over a 50-year period, assuming that all economic benefits and costs
will remain constant after 1987 when full capacity of the fishing port is
reached. The benefits expected in 1980, immediately after completion of the
project, amount to about CFAF 1 billion, i.e. about 28% of the construction
costs of the fishing wharf. The calculation also shows that postponement of
this construction by one year would reduce the expected net present value (10%
discount rate) by about CFAF 470 million. These figures indicate that the
project is well timed. The economic return based on port-users' savings alone,
i.e. operational cost savings for cargo ships and the fishing fleet which will
accrue to traffic expected in the "without" case (excluding benefits accruing
from additional induced traffic) is estimated at 16%. A sensitivity analysis
was carried out assuming an increase of 15% in construction costs and a
decrease of 20% in benefits. In this unfavorable case, the project would
still yield a satisfactory return of about 17%.
(ii) Rate of Return for Senegal
5.52      The economic return for Senegal alone, i.e. excluding all benefits
accruing to foreign fleets or benefits of foreign-owned processing plants
and wages of expatriates transferred abroad, is estimated at 17% and 13%
under the sensitivity analysis assumptions stated in the previous paragraph.
The economic return based on port users' operational cost savings only is
estimated at about 11%.
5.53      A sensitivity analysis carried out as part of the project appraisal
produced the following results:



- 68 -
Economic Return
Project Cost        Project Benefits           Total       for Senegal
Estimate            Forecast                     23            17
Estimate            Reduced 20%                  21            16
Increased 10%       Forecast                     21            16
Increased 20%       Forecast                     20            15
Increased 15%       Reduced 20%                  17            13
Estimate            Vessels operating
savings only                16            il
VI. Project Risks
5.54      The economic evaluation confirms that the proposed Dakar fishing
port project is justified primarily by the expected general improvements
in port operations. In addition, the project will provide means for the
expected important development of shore activities. Since the project pro-
vides an adequate rate of return even without considering additional traffic
to be generated, there is no real risk element involved. However, in order
that Senegal may benefit to the maximum from the project and fully utilize the
facilities to be provided, the Government has provided assurances that it will
apply all appropriate incentives to assure the growth and modernization of the
Dakar-based fleet. These incentives relate mainly to: (i) organization and
operations of the various departments involved in the administration, control,
and planning of fishing activities; (ii) exploitation of fishery resources;
(iii) effective utilization of credit institutions and agencies involved in
promoting fishing; (iv) vocational training and creation or development of
fishery research institutes.
5.55      The Government will discuss with the Bank in mid-1977 its overall
investment program in the industrial fishing sector during the next economic
development plan period 1977-81. The proposed project provides for execution
of a study to establish a plan for action for development of the sector over
the next ten years; the study is expected to include a marketing survey of
potential exports for Senegalese fish products to major European and African
countries.
5.56      The availability of fish to justify the proposed project construction
may be considered as an issue, but fish resources off the Senegalese coast
are being continuously monitored by competent organizations (para. 3.04), and
the best estimates indicate that almost 900,000 tons of various species can
be caught annually without depleting the stocks.



- 69 -
VI. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Impact of the Project on the Government's Finances
Financial relations between PAD and Government
6.01      In 1967/68, the Government's equity interest in PAD was CFAF 5.4
billion. Since then there have been minor variations, depending on the
adjustments effected in respect of the original assets, and the Government's
interest now represents about 63% of total equity. Originally it was anti-
cipated that the Government would contribute to the cost of developing the
port, including the First Port Project, but since 1961 development costs have
been financed from PAD's own resources with external borrowing as necessary.
The Government, however, waived customs duties for materials and equipment
imported for executing the first project; essentially the same arrangement
will apply under the present project, except that two specific taxes (turnover
tax and licensing fees) will not be waived (para 4.29). PAD's contribution to
the Government's finances is represented by the capital and maintenance cost
of some buildings in the port area given to the Government free of charge, the
deposit of surplus cash with the Treasury without interest (para. 2.19), loss
of interest on outstanding accounts -- substantial in recent years -- owed
by Government and public undertakings (paras. 6.07-6.09), and payment of taxes
(other than income tax).  Income tax was waived till 1972/73, and the Govern-
ment has agreed under the present project to exempt PAD from paying income
taxes till completion of the project.
Increase in net Government revenues flowing from the project
6.02      Although the Dakar industrial fishery sector accounts for only about
4% of Senegal's GDP, it makes a significant contribution to public revenues
in the form of direct and indirect taxes, and fees from fishing rights.
Hence, the sector is vital to Government. The proposed project will directly
or indirectly contribute to increased net Government revenues according
to the following estimates.



- 70 -
Nature of Additional Revenue/Expense
Amount (CFAF million at 1976 constant prices)
1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   Total
a) Additional Revenues
Additional Taxes and Fees
1. Dakar fleets                 22        42         62          78      204
2. Ship repair enterprises       2          6         9          13       30
3. Ship supplies                 2          5         7           7       21
4. Handling & stevedoring        4          9        14          21       48
5. Bunkering                    71        136       210         283      700
6. Processing plants            60        117       186         226      589
7. Processing/canning plants  14           17        22          25       78
Sub-total              175        332        510         653    1670
8. Taxes on PAD
(other than income tax)      6          7          8           8      29
Total Taxes and Fees         181      339        518         661    1699
b) Net non-repatriated
profits of mixed
enterprises                     28       48         83         124     283
Total Additional Revenues       209       387       601         785    1982
6.03      The table shows that over the period 1979-83, the Government is
likely to earn gross additional revenue of about CFAF 1,982 million
(US$8.1 million equivalent). Assuming that during the same period approximately 20%
of this amount it used as additional expenses for developing the fishing
sector, the annual net additional revenue will aggregate about CFAF 1,600 million
(US$6.5 million equivalent). This latter amount could be expected to increase
progressively over time, appreciably more so in subsequent years. Under these
circumstances, it is felt the Government can afford to waive customs duties on
the project and recovery of income tax from PAD until completion of the project
expected in 1980-81 as agreed (para 6.01).



- 71 -
B. Past Financial Performance of PAD
6.04      The following table summarizes PAD's actual revenue and expenditure
for the last three fiscal years based on audited accounts.
/1            /2            /2
1972/73       1973/74       1974/75
---------(In CFAF million)--------
Operating Revenue                              1266           1473        1714
Working Expenses                                552            601         812
Depreciation, amortization and
provision                                     204             232         373
Operating Expenses                              756            833        1185
Net Operating Revenue                           510            640         529
Non-Operating Revenue                            73             74          32
Non-Operating Expenses
Interest                                        42             50          42
Other                                            -            111          34
42            161          76
Net Non-Operating Revenue (Deficit)              31            (87)        (44)
Net Income                                      541            553         485
Income Tax                                      -              184          -
Net Surplus                                     541            369         485
Working Ratio (%)                                44             41          47
Operating Ratio (%)                              60             56          69
Return on Average Net Value of
Fixed Assets in Use (%)                       7.7             9.0         7.1
Coverage of interest charges by
Net Operating Revenue (x)                    12.1            12.8        12.6
Coverage of debt service by
cash generated from operations(x)             6.4             7.3         8.3
/1   Excluding adjustments recommended by auditor.
/2   Including adjustments recommended by auditor for subject year and
preceding years.
6.05      Of the operating revenue, charges on passengers and goods constitute
the largest item (44%), followed by rents (33%) and charges on vessels (13%),
the balance being miscellaneous revenue. The increase in revenue is mainly
due to revision of tariffs. Traffic increased between 1972/73 and 1973/74, but
has declined since then. The largest element of the working expenses is staff
costs (60%), other important items being materials, repairs and maintenance
(14%), and purchases of water, electricity, fuel and lubricants (16%). During
the period, there was an increase of 50% in the first two items, and of 100%
in the last. Depreciation is higher because of new capital works undertaken,



- 72 -
and the provision in 1974/75 includes some adjustments suggested by the
auditor. Working and operating ratios deteriorated on account of the
proportionately larger increase in expenses than in revenue, but are sat-
isfactory.  The financial rate of return (before tax) compares favorably
with the minimum of 6% stipulated for the first project. However, the rate
would have been less had the relative assets been revalued at replacement
costs. Coverage of interest charges and the total debt service has been
adequate.
6.06      A summary of the balance sheets is given below:
1972/73/1    1973/74/2    1974/75/2
---------(In CFAF million)--------
Net Fixed Assets in Use                      6882           7273          7673
Work in Progress                               49             38           201
Total Net Fixed Assets  3                   6931            7311          7874
Investment in "SODEMHE"-                     -               138           139
Net Current Assets                           1087           1103          924
Total Net Assets                       8018           8552          8937
Financed from:
Long-term Debt                          715            655           588
Equity                                 7303           7897          8349
Total                             8018           8552          8937
/1   Excluding adjustments recommended by auditor.
/2   Including adjustments recommended by auditor.
/3   Societe Dakaroise de Mise Hors d'Eau, a ship-repair company in which
PAD has an interest.
6.07      Of the fixed assets in use as of June 30, 1975, land accounted
for only CFAF 277 million, the balance being depreciable assets. The values
represent historical costs. Among the current assets, cash diminished con-
siderably from CFAF 765 million at the end of 1972/73 to CFAF 130 million
by 1974/75 mainly due to heavy capital expenditure. At the same time, re-
ceivables mounted during the period from CFAF 455 to 849 million. Thus,
although the ratio of current assets to current liabilities improved from
7.3 to 10.6, PAD's liquidity position weakened. The receivables, as of
June 30, 1975, represented 49% of the gross operating revenue as against
a maximum of 15% agreed to under the first project, a target which was prob-
ably overly optimistic and did not envisage transfer of PAD's internal ac-
counting to the Centre des Etablissements Publics (para. 2.15); 45% of these
receivables were over a year old and a substantial portion comprised the dues
of Government departments and public establishments. PAD has since made
earnest efforts to speed up recoveries, and the provisional accounts for
1975/76 show that receivables have been reduced to about 36% of gross revenue.



- 73 -
6.08      Since it is essential to further improve PAD's liquidity (especially
on account of its obligations under the proposed project), agreement has been
reached on the details and the implementation of a plan requiring PAD to take
strict additional effective measures to progressively reduce its accounts
receivable to acceptable levels by December 31, 1977. Regarding the ordinary
accounts receivable, i.e., those relating to port operations, the plan includes
the following measures: (i) payments of debts for PAD's services will be due
in 30 days instead of 60 days from end of billing month; (ii) PAD entry
permits will not be renewed for clients who had not paid by December 1976
their accounts receivable up to January 1976; (iii) the Ministry of Finance
will in principle pay directly to the port bills incurred by other Ministries;
(iv) all PAD clients not having regular accounts will pay cash for services
rendered; (v) accounts receivable which PAD considers unrecoverable will be
systematically written off; (vi) computerized facilities for billing, account-
ing, and statistics will be installed in PAD by mid-1977. Implementation of
this plan is expected to enable reduction of ordinary accounts receivable to
not more than 25% of gross revenue at December 31, 1976, 20% at June 30, 1977,
and 15% at December 31, 1977.
6.09      Special accounts receivable (comprising receivables pertaining
to services for lights and buoys, Dakar-Goree ferry, buildings for marine
police, and any other special service) will be reduced, inter alia, by: (i)
PAD imposing a tax on ships, specifically to meet the costs of lights and
buoys, to make up the deficit not covered by annual Government subsidy; (ii)
PAD will not undertake new investments for Government unless these are pre-
viously covered by Treasury bonds; (iii) Government will pay CFAF 106 million
owed to PAD for the Dakar-Goree ferry before June 30, 1977. As a result of
these measures, the level of special accounts receivable is expected to be
reduced from about CFAF 200 million at present to CFAF 100 million by June 30,
1977, and further to about CFAF 50 million by December 31, 1977.
C. Methods and Assumptions for Financial Analysis
6.10      The financial projections for 1975/76 to 1982/83, summarized below,
are based on the following main methods and assumptions:
1.   The figures for 1975/76 represent provisional actuals, while
the estimates for 1976/77 take into account the budget figures
which allow for higher revenue resulting from revision of tar-
iffs in July 1976, representing an overall increase of 10.6%
over the budgeted revenue for 1975/76.
2.   For the period prior to expected completion of the project in
1980/81, additional generation of revenue of at least CFAF
100 million in 1977/78 and in 1978/79 has been assumed; this
will necessitate a 5% general increase in tariffs, or suit-
able selective revisions. For subsequent years, the assumption
is that further revenue will be generated in amounts of CFAF



- 74 -
383 million, CFAF 156 million, and CFAF 335 million in
1980/81, 1981/82, and 1982/83 respectively. Increase in
the first two years will be principally to cover higher
depreciation and debt service charges, and should fall
mainly on fish traffic, since this traffic will until
that time be subsidized by general traffic. In 1980/81
fish traffic should generate at least CFAF 317 million of
the CFAF 383 million indicated above, which will necessitate
an approximately 73% increse in the relative tariffs.
There appears to be room for such an increase at that
time, as the existing wharfage rates on fish traffic are
low, ranging in ad valorem terms from 0.50% to 6% of
landed value; these rates would be halved in the case of
fresh fish or fish products exported or transshipped.
Also, sufficient experience should by then have been
gained from implementation of the proposed ad valorem
tariff system to determine any deterrent to the growth of
fish traffic, and to apply appropriate alternative tariff
increases on commodities other than fish. In 1982/83, an
increase in tarif fs of CFAF 335 million will be necessary
on assumed revaluation of assets as of June 30, 1983;
part of the increase can possibly be imposed on fish
traffic, but no allowance for this has been made at the
present time.
3.   An increase in the cost of staff has been allowed for each year
to cover normal increments on account of inflation (6%) and
expansion following traffic growth (4%); in the case of fishing
activities, the cost of the contemplated additional staff has
been estimated and included.
4.   Annual increases in the cost of materials, repairs and mainte-
nance have been provided to cover likely escalation (6%) and
traffic growth (4%); the cost for the new facilities under the
project has been estimated and included.
5.   A statement of estimated income and expenditure relating to
fishing activities has been prepared on a hypothetical basis
assuming tariff increases as in (2) above.
6.   Net debit or credit for old structures demolished or
reconstructed in project execution, after allowing for
the cost of any usable materials salvaged, would be taken in
the project. Scrap value of other assets to be demolished
during project construction has been assumed to be insigni-
ficant.
7.   Non-project or ordinary capital expenditure would not ex-
ceed an annual average of CFAF 500 million.



- 75 -
8.   All project fixed assets would be capitalized after com-
pletion and commissioning,i.e., in 1980/81.
9.   Depreciation has been calculated on the estimated cost
of project assets other than land and intangible assets
by the straight-line method and according to their estimated
life based on broad categories. Reclaimed land is capital-
ized at direct costs. Expenditures on advisory services and
training are capitalized and amortized as intangible assets
over ten years. Investment in the Synchrolift system will
be amortized over 20 years. Approximate revaluation of fixed
assets as of June 30, 1978 and June 30, 1983 has been calcu-
lated on the basis of current replacement costs estimated by
indexation and allowing for the residual life of the various
categories of assets, and depreciation has been provided on the
revised asset values.
10.   The entire project cost will be financed by contributions as
shown in the financing plan.
11.   Income tax will not be recovered from PAD until 1980/81.
12.   At least 25% of PAD surplus cash will earn interest through
authorized investment in short-term Treasury bonds.
D.  Forecast Financial Performance 1975-83
6.11      On the basis of the foregoing assumptions, particularly that PAD
will generate necessary additional revenue, the summary forecasts of revenue
and expenditure accounts are the following:



- 76 -
(in CFAF million)
1975/76 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81 1981/82 1982/83
Prov. Actuals  Estimates ---------------------Forecasts--------------------
Operating
Revenue          1935    2007       2200      2387      2491      2940      3270    3695
Working Expenses   873    1062        1160      1270      1381      1492       1625    1772
Depreciation,
amortization &
provision         385      400       517       539       512       646       670      813
Operating
Expenses         1258    1462       1677      1809      1893     2138       2295    2585
Net Operating
Revenue           677      545       523       578       598       802        975    1110
Non-Operating
Revenue            -         1        10        12        14        15         20      25
Non-Operating
Expenses
Interest         36       39       141       185      262       296        286      268
Other            -        -         33        -        -         -          -       100
36      39       174       185       262       296        286      368
Net Non-Operating
(Deficit)         (36)    (38)    (164)    (173)    (248)    (281)          (266)   (343)
Net Income          641      507       359       405       350       521        709     767
Income Tax                                                                      157     177
Net Surplus          641     507       359       405       350       521        552     590
Working Ratio (%)   45        53        53        53        55        51         50      48
Operating Ratio (%) 65        73        76        76        76        73         70       70
Average Net Value
of Fixed Assets
in Use            7920    8301       9881    11320    11319    13989        16587   19414
Return on Average
Net Value of Fixed
Assets in Use,
before tax (%)      8.5      6.6       5.3       5.1       5.3       5.7        5.9     5.7
after tax (%)                                                                  4.9      4.8
Coverage of interest
charges by Net Oper-
ating Revenue (x) 18.8    14.0         3.7       3.1       2.3       2.7       3.4      4.1
Coverage of debt
service by cash
generated from
operations (x)      9.8      8.3       4.8       4.1       3.1       3.7       3.2      3.6
6.12      The operating revenue includes the additional generation indicated
in para. 6.10.  The working and operating ratios increase until  1979/80, and



- 77 -
remain generally stable thereafter within acceptable limits. PAD has agreed
under the proposed project to maintain a working ratio not exceeding 60% until
1979/80, and not exceeding 55% thereafter. The rate of return declines in
1977/78 following revaluation of assets, but is maintained thereafter through
generation of the required additional revenue. PAD has also agreed under the
proposed project that it will take all necessary measures to achieve minimum
rates of return as follows: 6% up to 1976/77, 5.5% in each year until 1980/81
or until the date of project completion whichever is later, and 4.75% from
1981/82 or the year from which income tax is levied for the first time. The
Government has confirmed that PAD will be exempt from paying income tax until
completion of the project. Coverage of interest charges by net operating
revenue, and of total debt service by cash generation from operations, remains
adequate throughout the project period.
6.13      The rough estimates of income and expenditure accounts attributable
to fishing activities are summarized below.
(in CFAF million)
1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83
Operating
Revenue           193      243       301       346     397        752       946      1020
Working Expenses   108       135       148       162      223        274      299       327
Depreciation,
amortization &
provision          34       43        58        62      63        198       199       220
Operating Expenses 142       178       206       224      286        472      498       547
Net Operating
Revenue            51       65        95       122      111       280       448       473
Non-Operating
Revenue            -         1         1         1        1          1         5        7
Non-Operating
Expenses
(Interest)         -         6       110      157      240        279       275       262
Net Non-Operating
(Deficit)          -        (5)    (109)    (156)   (239)        (278)    (270)    (255)
Net Income (Loss)   51        60       (14)      (34)   (128)          2       178      218
Income Tax                                                                     41        52
Net Surplus
(Deficit)          51       60       (14)     (34)   (128)          2       137       166
Working Ratio (%)   56        55        49        47       56         36       32        32
Operating Ratio (%) 73        73        68        65       72         63       53        54
Average Net Value
of Fixed Assets
in Use           1282    1557       1674     1776    1706        4301      6840      7176
Return on Average
Net Value of
Fixed Assets in
Use,
before tax (%)      4.0      4.2       5.7       6.9     6.5        6.5
after tax (%)



- 78 -
6.14      The operating revenue for 1976/77 includes some additional revenue
generated by the July 1976 tariff revision and assumed attributable to fish-
ing activities. The revenue for subsequent years includes the additional
amounts to be generated as discussed in para. 6.10 (2), where the point is
made that on completion of the project, fish traffic must bear most of the
higher depreciation and debt charges to avoid a protest from the commercial
port interests. However, if this proves impracticable, an alternative will
be to apply an annual overall tariff increase (for fish and other traffic)
of at least 6% up to 1980/81, thus maintaining the tariff levels in real
terms. In that year, a 10% overall increase will be necessary, and this
will then have to be applied also in succeeding years. The working and
operating ratios increase until 1979/80, and decline thereafter due to the
proportionately large increase in operating revenue. The financial rate
of return, which remains stable from 1979/80, is slightly higher than that
estimated for the Port as a whole (the fishing port as well as the commercial
port) because the percentage of increased net operating revenue is calcu-
lated on an appreciably lower asset base. Net loss is realized until 1979/80,
indicating that interest charges will fall mainly on general traffic; there-
after, net operating revenue becomes adequate to cover interest charges
and enable the realization of appreciable net income.
E. Cash Flow and Financing Plan
6.15      A summary of the sources and application of funds over the project
period (1976-1981) is shown below:
US$ million
CFAF million      Equivalent      Percentage
Source of Funds
Internal                               2339               9.55
Less: Debt Service                      1350              5.51
Net Internal                            3689             15.06           44
Proposed Borrowing
(CFAF million)
IBRD                1372
CCCE                1470
BADEA               1764               4606              18.80           56
Total                             8295             33.86           100
Application of Funds
Capital Expenditure:
Project                           5745             23.45            70
Non-project                       2520              10.28           30
Increase in Working Capital               30              0.13           -
8295             33.86          100



- 79 -
6.16       As detailed in paras. 6.10 and 6.11, net cash arising from opera-
tions would be inadequate for the Port's needs unless additional revenue is
generated. About CFAF 1139 million of the internal funds represents PAD's
agreed contribution to the proposed project. The terms of the proposed loans
to help finance the project are as follows: (i) IBRD Loan to the Government
from the "Third Window" facility - 25 years including 7 years of grace, with
interest at 4.2% p.a. 1/; the proceeds of this Loan will be re-lent to PAD on
the same terms as a conventional IBRD Loan, i.e. 20 years including 4 1/2
years of grace, with interest at 8.2% p.a. 1/ (ii) CCCE loan - 20 years includ-
ing 4 years of grace, with interest (including commission) at 5.5% p.a.; and
(iii) BADEA loan - 20 years including 5 years of grace, with interest at 5% p.a.
F. Balance Sheets
6.17       The following is a summary of the projected balance sheets:
(in CFAF million)
as of June 30   1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83
Prov.Actuals Estimates ---------------Forecasts--------------------
Net Fixed
Assets in Use        8168    8435    11328    11313    11325   16653           16521      22306
Work-in-Progress    100    1448         3542      4797      5422      -          -          -
Total Net Fixed
Assets               8268    9883    14870    16110    16747    16653    16521            22306
Investment in
SODEMHE,etc.          132      125       118       111       104        97        90         83
Intangible Assets    -          15       211       206       240       244       213        182
Net Current Assets 1106    1105          955      1060      1201      1759      2256       2997
Total Net Assets   9506   11128    16154    17487    18292    18753    19080              25568
Financed from:
Long-term Debt        516    1631       3372      4300      4755      4695      4470       4208
Equity               8990    9497    12782    13187    13537    14058    14610            21360
Total                9506   11128    16154    17487    18292    18753    19080            25568
Ratio of Current
Assets to Current
Liabilities          13.4   11.9       10.4      11.2      12.3       17.3       9.4       11.4
Debt/Equity Ratio  5/95   15/85    21/79    25/75   26/74    25/75             23/77      16/84
1/   The financial calculations in this report are based on a Bank lending rate
of 8.5% which was applicable during the quarter ended March 31, 1977.



- 80 -
6.18      The value of the net fixed assets increases in 1977/78 and 1982/83
on account of the planned revaluation, and in 1980/81 due to capitalization
of project assets. Additional land is estimated to cost CFAF 850 million.
Accumulated cash, representing mainly the provision for depreciation, is
estimated to increase from CFAF 517 million as of June 30, 1976 to CFAF 2,834
million as of June 30, 1983. This will eventually serve to meet PAD's finan-
cial contribution to a probable container port project as well as any future
extension of the new fishing port. The ratio of current assets to current
liabilities improves until the expiration of income tax exemption in 1980/81,
but receivables must not exceed the stipulated levels (paras. 6.08 and 6.09).
The debt/equity ratio is also acceptable, but PAD has agreed under the present
project that:
(i)  it will not incur any long-term debt, except
in prior agreement with the Bank, unless its
net revenues are at least 1.5 times its
maximum future debt service requirement; and
(ii) it will not incur non-project capital expendi-
ture exceeding an annual average of CFAF 500
million during the project period (FY1976/77-
FY1980/81) except in consultation with the
Bank.
G. Sensitivity Analysis
6.19      The main increase in traffic forecast is fish.  If, for sensitivity
purposes, a shortfall of 10% in the estimated fish traffic in 1979/80 is
assumed, the net operating revenue for the year will be reduced by about
CFAF 36 million. It should be possible to generate this additional amount
through tariff increases from fish traffic to maintain the stipulated rate of
return. However, should there be a shortfall of 30% in such additional traf-
fic, the necessary tariff increase will be on the order of CFAF 110 million.
Since generation of additional revenue of nearly CFAF 400 million in 1980/81
will be necessary to cover higher working expenses and depreciation, it may be
difficult to raise total additional revenue of about CFAF 500 million from
fish traffic within two years without inhibiting this traffic to some extent.
An alternative will be to increase tariffs on other traffic for which the Port
enjoys a monopoly, in agreement with the interests concerned. A similar
situation may arise in 1982/83 when the amount required to be generated from
tariff increases is approximately CFAF 350 million.



- 81 -
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations for the proposed Loan, the following principal
issues were discussed and agreements reached with the Government and/or PAD:
(i)  the Government will take all necessary measures to fully
implement the decree No. 73-779 of August 13, 1973 by June 30,
1977 or other date as agreed with the Bank and to modify
the same to allow broader financial autonomy to PAD
(para. 2.16);
(ii)  PAD will, with technical assistance provided under the
project, introduce (a) analytical accounting and a cost-
related tariff structure, and (b) an ad valorem tariff
system for fish traffic, both not later than July 1, 1978
(paras. 2.17, 2.20, 2.23 and 4.06);
(iii)  PAD will revalue its fixed assets by June 30, 1978, and
thereafter as frequently as necessary but at intervals
not exceeding five years, in consultation and agreement
with the Bank (para. 2.18);
(iv)  the Government will arrange for 25% of PAD's surplus cash
maintained with the Treasury to be converted into interest-
bearing Treasury bonds (para. 2.19);
(v)  details of all arrangements for project implementation
and supervision (in which the Bank will have the principal
role), including outline terms of reference for the proposed
consulting and technical assistance services, have been
agreed with the Government, PAD, and the co-financers
(paras. 4.37 and 4.41);
(vi)  civil works contracts will be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding, and only after the
proposed Loan has been approved by the Board (para. 4.40);
(vii)  to help assure successful implementation of the proposed
project, the Government will undertake appropriate incentive
measures to assure the growth and modernization of the
Dakar-based industrial fishing fleet, and a continued
increase in fish landings for processing by local industries
(para. 5.54).
(viii)  PAD will implement an agreed plan which prescribes strict
measures to progressively reduce its accounts receivable to
acceptable levels by December 31, 1977 (paras. 6.08 and 6.09);
(ix)  PAD will maintain a working ratio not exceeding 60%
until 1979/80, and not exceeding 55% thereafter
(para. 6.12);



- 82 -
(x)  PAD will achieve a minimum rate of return on net fixed
assets in use of 6% up to 1976/77, of 5.5% in each year
until 1980/81 or until the date of project completion,
whichever is later, and a minimum rate of return from
1981/82 (or the year from which income tax is levied for
the first time) of 4.75% (para. 6.12);
(xi)  PAD will not incur any long-term debt, except in agreement
with the Bank, unless its net revenues are at least 1.5
times the maximum future debt service requirement (para.
6.18).
(xii)  PAD will not incur non-project capital expenditure ex-
ceeding an annual average of CFAF 500 million during the
project period, unless in consultation with the Bank
(para. 6.18);
7.02      A condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan will be the
signing of co-financing agreements with BADEA and CCCE (paras. 4.32 - 4.36).
7.03      The proposed project is suitable for a Loan to the Government of
Senegal in the amount of US$6 million equivalent from the Bank's Third Window
Facility, with interest at 4.20 percent per annum; the first repayment date
of the Loan is January 15, 1983, and the final maturity date is January 15,
2001. US$5.6 million of the Loan proceeds will be re-lent to PAD on the same
terms as a conventional Bank Loan, i.e. 20 years including 4 1/2 years of
grace, with interest at 8.20 percent per annum, leaving $0.4 million allocated
for the fishing sector study to be executed by the Government.
April 5, 1977



S EN EGAIL
I),AIKArl l'I';ll]`lN:I' T PROJECT
'rraffic  - A.  Flsh LandinR ln Dakar Port (Dakar-based   ee only)
(000 tons)
llandliners    'frawlers     Pelagic Seiners      Tuna Loats         Total
1963           .7            3.2              2.7               10.4              17.0
1964           .7            2.6              2.6               10.6              16.5
1965           .9            2.6              3.0                5.7              12.2
1966          1.1            2.3              5.0                8.7              17.1
1967          1.1            3.1             12.8                9.4              26.4
1968           .7            5.6             15.6               12.2              34.1
1969           .6            6.5             18.2               11.6              36.9
1970           .4            8.9             14.8               12.0              36.1
1971           .7           10.3             13.3               14.5              38.8
1972           .6           12.3             21.9               12.71'            47.5
1973           .4           14.7             45.0                8.71/            66.8
1974           .2           14.5             50.1               15.9              80.7
1975           .3           1.5.7            45.8 /             1]2.7             74.5
1/ Excluding landings of SOSAP fleet in other African ports for temporary storage (about 5,000 t),              D
part of which are re-exported to Dakar for processing.                                                       .
./ Decrease due mainly to Ivorian fleet which temporarily stopped its operations in 1975 for
tiodernization and renewal.



S;NEGAL
DAKAR FISHING PO"  rROIECT
Trafftc Forecrat  - I.Pths Landinge (000 ton")
(for processing and local consoumption)
Grand  Total      ~Total Excapt
W   t   Wtth   DemerZ4        IlithOShrbP ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Jitou                                        Withctpu  Tunaou _             irothe        Wirhot        lUlth
Co~~~t~l  pc1a~~i        Dae rsalea                      shrbno                       OctopUEs                         Tuns                   <rocunded  figure)             Coastal  Pea,ic
l4ithout     lUth             Ilithouit    Wttls             Nithout       wlUt           Without      luth               Vtoi.        wt                iiot         ihVtoi                       Wt
3.S                                                         14.5                         79.3                          29.2
Dakar fi<ett           50.1                           11.2                                                                                       1__4                          1.4                           1
Foreign fleets          -3                                                                                                                       15.9                          1.0.1
S ub - tao tl       50.1                            11.2                           3.-                                                         15 -5                        27.3                          27.3
Tr~~~~,pordry storage  23.0              3.5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~108.059
Total liandingS      50.1                          23.0                            3.5                                                        31.4
1980
Daar4  fleets          81           89                22           22                3.7         4.0             6             7                16            19            129           141               48            52
Tt^;   81  69  37205.5                                    3.5          17                26            38            15            20 21                           27
Foreign l4e9 -23 -                                                                   3.7         4. 173  .7                                     26            19            154           203               S 3
SuU-total           si            69               32            37               5.0          5.5            10.5          27                              34            164           215               75           10
TemoptSY storalU      -      --                                   __                                                                                        38             159          207l               78          118
Total landinge       89           19               37            57               5.0          5.5             I                                                                         21 26  4 
1?87
DaIr fieets            89          149               23            24               3.7          4.0              7            7                16           19             139          203                5             61
Foigiji" fiesta                    -               .12.         20                1.3         1.5              3.15        27                165                          2.15         342                1             a
Fox-elgri ~ ~       ~                       3            4                 5.0          5 3.5          10.5         22                226           54             164          255                75          106
Teapc.rary                                                         __               -            -               -                                                                                          25 -A       -
Total lamdinas       89          1938                           64                5.0         5                0.22647169                                                              228                             3
Dakat fiCats    104          200                24           26                3.7         4.0             7            12                16           19             153          261                5161
*10           20                            15               .3.        15                 1-0          15-           ___           ___5
Foreign feetst        -                                           4                  .0         5.               05                             634_                       180           313                76          113
TsMapokrrY stor'g                                                 2                                                                                          1              8            308
Total lsatdings    104           2039                           66                5.0         5.5            10.5          27                2              115308                                                     4



OAKAR FISHIIN;G PORT PROlJECT
i'raffit_ Forecast- - C. titilization of Landings
(000 tons)
Processing
Total                Local              Temporary                                                       Fillets &  2/
Landings -          Consumption             Storage                Total             Frozen Fish         Assimilates -            Canning              Fishmeal
Without   With       Without   Wlth        Without   With       Witihout   WLth       Without   With       Without   With        Without   With        Without   With
Small Pelagic
1974       50        89         22          -          -         -         28          -         14         -           -        -            1         -         13          -
1980       81        89         20         20          -         -         61         69         38        42           -        -           4          5         19         22
1983       89       149         10         10          -         -          79       139         53        93           -        -           4          6         22         40
1987      104       200         10         10          -         -         94        190         64       132           -        -            5         8         25         50
Demersal Fiah
1974       23         -           I         -         il         -          il         -          8          -          3        -            -         -           -         -
1980       37        57          3          5          6        20          28        32         14        16          14       16            -         -           -         -
1983       38        64           5         5          5        20         28         39         14        20          14       19            -         -           -         -
1987       39        66          5          5          5        20         29         41         14        20          15       21            -         -           -         -
Sh rimp
1974        3.5       -          -          -           -        -           3.5       -          1.8        -           1.7      -           -         -           -         -
1980        5         5.5        -          -           -        -           5         5.5        2          2           3       3.5          -         -           -         -
1983        5         5.5         -         -           -        -           5         5.5        2          2           3       3.5          -         -           -         -
1987        5         5.5         -         -           -        -           5         5.5        2          2           3       3.5          -         -           -         -
Octopus
1974        -         -          -          -           -          _-                  -          -          -           -       -            -         _           _         _
1980       il        17          -          -           -          -        il        17          -          -          il      17            -         -           -         -
1983       il        22          -                -                -        il        22          -          -          Il      22            -         -
1987       il        27           -         -           -          -        il        27          -          -          il      27            -         -           _         _
Tuna
1974       31         -           _                    16          -        15         -          -          -           -       -           15         -           -         -
1980       26        38           -         -           -          7        26        31          -          -           -       -           26        31           -         -
1983       26        41           -         -           -          7        26        34          -          -           -       -           26        34           -         -
1987       26        41           -         -           -          7        26        34          -          -           -       -           26        34           -         -
Total
108         -         23          -          27          -        58         -         24          -           5       -           16         -          13         -
1974      160       207         23         25           6        27        131       155         54        60           28      37           30        36          19        22
1980)     169       282          15        15           5        27        149       240         69       115           28      45           30        40          22        40    .
1983                                                                                                                    29      5             14                    550 
1987      185       140         15         15           5        27        165       298         80       154           29      52           31        42          25
1/  Landings by Dakar-babed isud foteign fleets, including occagid>ial lanidings by foreLgn flects for temporary storage before re-export
2/  lncliding decorticated uhrijnp and octopus preparationls.



S FN9GAI
DAKAR FISIIING PORT PROJECT
Trafftc Forecast - D. Exports of Fish Products
(000 tons)
Total Exports
Frozen Fish        Frozen Fillets -         Canning             Fistimeal 3             Total           Temporary Storage   Frozeni Pro__Ucts
Wlithout   With      Without   With        Without   With       Without   With        Without   Wlth        Without   With        Without   With
Small P_laeic
1974        14                              -           0.7       -          3.3       -          18        -            -         -         14          -
1980        38       42           -         -           3        4           3.3       3.8       44        50            -         -         38        42
1983        53       43           -         -           3         5          3.8       7.4       60       106            -         -         53         93
1987        64      132           -         -           4         7          3.8       8.7        72      147            -         -         64       132
Demersal Fish
1974         8        -           2         -            -        -          0.4       -          10        -          il          -         21          -
1980        14       16          8          9            -        -          0.9       1.1       23        26           6         20         28        45
1983        14       20           8        il            -        -          0.9       1.4        23       32            5        20         27         51
1987        14       20           8        13            -        -          0.8       1.3        23       34            5        20         27         53
1974         1.6      -           0.8       -            -        -          -         -           2        -            -         -          2          -
1980         1.8    1.8           1.4       1.7          -        -          -         -           3        4            -         -           3         4
1983         1.8    1.8           1.4       1.7          -        -          -         -           3        4            -         -          3          4
1987         1.8    1.8           1.4       1.7          -        -          -         -           3        4            -         -          3          4
Octopus
1974         -       -            -         -            -        -          -         _           _        _            _         _           _         _
1980         -       -            4         7            -        -          -         -           4        7            -         -          4          7
1983         -       -            4         9            -        -          -         -           4        9            -         -          4          9
1987         -       -            4        il            -        -          -         -           4       il            -         -          4         il
Tuna
1974         -       -            -         -          11         -          1.8       -          13        -           16         -         16          -
1980         -       -            -         -          18       21           2.4       3.1        20       24            -         7           -         7
1983         -       -            -         -          18       23           2.4       3.5        20       27            -         7           -         7
1987         -       -            -         -          18        23          2.2       3.5        20       27            -         7           -         7
Total
1974        24       -            3         -          12         -          5.5       -         45         -          27          -         72          -
1980        54      60          13         18          21       25           7         8          95     Ili             6        27        101        138
1983        69    115            13        22          21       28           6        12        109       176            5        27        114        203
1987        80    154           13         26          22       30           7        13        122      223             5        27        127       250
I/  Based on 40% waste for demersal fiali fillets and 60% for octopus and ehrluip and crustacean preparations.
'i  *.k..,$ weigimt. C            9  g                mci,db  biCAl  "insurption, esRtimated at abouit 1000 tona/year.
3/  Incluiding ftslnieal production fron reduction of wastes of canning and fillet preparation pianLs.    IUsnX.0
1-,,1                 estimated at about 25% of production.



SENEGAL
DAKAR YISHING PORT PRO IECT
Estis,ated total Colts Lnd lenafits Streama
(Mllo   PAF)
Handling Costa                                                 Fleets                          Cargo *htp                      Other lenefits
Landtnge  YFiat Lons Sav!      ,       Saviega         flie S4vin    Cout Savingp              Production                        Operational                   Proceseinv   Fuel         Total
Total Costs   '000 t   Landinga   Export, Landingt  Export   treezer SPs  Transhipment   Dakar ileete  Ot!Ar   Bub-tottl 1   Savinas                           Sub-totsl 2    Plante    Sales   Benetite
1            2           3           4         5          6             7               8                 9           10          il             12             13             14         15          16
1977        1529
1978        1418
1979         659
1980          64          159         6         37          34        23            36              16                32           7          245           228             473            522         71        1066
19al         150                     62          39          40        25            38              16                34           7         261            283            544             400        61         1005
19az         150                      64         41          48        29            40              16                 37          8          283            345           628             350        51         1029
1363           in         169        65          43          56        31            43              16                 39          9          302           405             7n7            309        42         1058
1984           15                     68         47          64        34            45              16                 42          9          325            455            780            312        42         1134
1985          25                      75         51          69        36            47              16                45          10          349           504             853            317        43         1213
1986          45                      80         55          72        38            48              16                48         1i           368           553             921            320        43         12S4
1987          55          185         82         57          74        40            49              16                50          il          379           604            983             325        44         1352
and aftsr
hbqe
1    Total costa ilicludilng   haerf conntruction cost and PAO assoctated capital cost (para. 5.50).
2    Total land1n8a ,f t.e "Itlt   case; tn.l,,dlng landlnEe for eeporary starage befor. reexpurt by foretgn flsts (Tabla 2).
3,4  See pars&. 5.24 & 5.25 bhaed on l.sses estlwated fut 15 types of fiehing vessela and 6 types of frozen fieh producta for asporta.
5,6  See parae. 5.29 ro 5.31 for aoue selected types of fishing veasels as above and freezer fish carriers .'
7,8  Sec par... 5.32 and 5.33.
9,10  5;e  para. 5.4E Co 5,42  beoed on flehln,g operations of 15 types of fiahlng expected to cail ln Dakar during the perlod.
12   FIclL.ing tree-er rs,o  hlps operatintia for export of frozen filh prodncts  (pare. 5.38  and 5.39),
14t5  Eliaefitr  fr-  Indt,ctd tratfic  stich do not require significant addittonai irvesttent in fleet; (additional landins  trou the
eAPd, ted loprova znt of the Dtkar-L"sed fleets or 1aeding by forslg  fleets) nor in fisli plants (utillzetion of plants excees capacity). Su* para. 5.44 Sad 5,45.



SENEGAL
DAKAR ltSII!NG PORT PllR<FCT
Benefits for Senegal (-)
carigo ahtpa'                         Other banatita
Fisi-losa  savinit       Iandiuna-coat esvinga         freezer ahi'         Addti.onal  filtane                           oporarlonul                           Procea*tnaL  Fuel
L.dlnaa       iExporta    Landinas                             savirt  tl    evn  fleat production       pub-total I            e*linna        sub-totel 2          plante    Sales         Total 8iefeita
7-   3-          4                3~~~~~~ 6                                                        7                                    S 
1980    36             24          15                15              29                       25                   144                 176               320                420        71               811
1981    37             25          17                16              30                       27                   152                 214               366                321        61               748
1982    39             27          21                16              32                       29                   166                 259               425                281        51               731
1983    40             28          25                20              34                       31                   178                 308              486                 252        42               7bO
1984    43             31          26                22              36                       33                   191                 344               535                256        42               833
1985    46             33          27                24              38                       36                   204                 381               585                260        43               888
1986    49             35          28                25              39                       39                   215                 418              633                 264        43               940
1987    5'             37          28                26              39                       41                   222                 453               675                266        44               985
(a)  From Table 2 excluding benetits of foraign-onmed fleste and firme transferred abroad.  In
case of JoInt venture benefitu accruing to Sanegalese entrepreneurs were baaed on the composition
of Senegal/foretgn capital.
1,3  Based on Importance of landinga by Senepalese veselas and natuire of apecaes.  Percentage vhich vill
accriue to Senegal ranges frop 30% (anding of foreign fleeta) to r7s (sardines). Beneftta vill accrue
to Senegalese fleete or processing plants depending on uhare the veighing oparation takes place ( on the
qn8y or at the gte of proceising planta).
2,4  Benefits accr.ing to Senegalese-owned procesting plants.
5.   Denefits accruing to processing and cold etorage plants, net of benefits transferrad abro-d (301 of total benafite).
6. . ased on compoaittoni of landings by Sanegalesa  vessela and oparsting account of 12 major types et Il$hing
vessels of the Dakar-based fleet.
7.   See par4. 5.38 and 5.39.                                                                                                                                                                            a
8.   Ba.ed on operating accouate of 8 types of proceesing activitiee and cold-atorage plante and composttion of capitel
(Sensgaleseforelgn).
9.   Aumufing tdiat aIl bnafita (eoinly taxes> vill rematn la senegal.



ANNEX
Page 1
DETAILED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE ON PROJECT FILES
A.        GENERAL REPORTS AND STUDIES
A.1       Port Development, Finances and Operations
A.1.1     Master Plan Study for the Port of Dakar, BCEOM, November 1972
Report and Drawings
A.1.2     Implementation of the Master Plan of the Port of Dakar -
Development Forecast - Interministerial Meeting, June 9, 1975
Ministry of Public Works, Urban Development and Transport
A.1.3     Study on Management and Operations of the Port Authority of
Dakar - Bureau, Organisation et Methodes - General Secretariat
of the Presidency (May 1975)
(a) Volume I - Study of day-to-day operations
(b)         II - Finances
A.1.4     Supreme Court - Audit Commission - Special Report on PAD (1960-72)
A.1.5     Audited Accounts of PAD for 1971-72 to 1974-75
A.1.6     Audit Reports for 1972-73 to 1974-75
A.1.7     Study on PAD Data Processing System (1974 PAD, M. Seck)
A.1.8     Comparative Tariff Data, PAD, 1967 to 1974
A.1.9     Detailed Tariff Data, PAD, 1975 and 1976
A.1.10    Economic Study of Possible New Tarification System (PAD, 1975)
A.1.11    Characteristics of Equipment and Tariffs available for Port users
A.1.12    Preparation of the 5th four-year economic development plan
(1977-81) - Memo on Transport and Telecommunications
A.1.13    Comparative Traffic Data, PAD, 1972-75
A.1.14    PAD Operational Regulations
A.2       Fishing Sector - General
A.2.1     Ministry of Planning and Directorate of Oceanography and
Maritime Fishing -
General Report of the 4th Economic Development Plan on Fishing
A.2.2     Objectives and actual results in implementation of the 4th four-year
Economic Development Plan (Dec. 18, 1974).



ANNEX
Page 2
A.2.3     Evolution and Perspectives of the Rural Sector (Preparation
of the 1977-81 Economic Development Plan)
A.2.4     Orientation and Perspectives of the Industrial Sector and
Programs of Investment (Ministry of Industrial Development
and Environment - Preparation of the 1977-81 Economic
Development Plan)
A.2.5     Economic Accounts 1971-72 - Directorate of Statistics, Ministry
of Finance and Economic Affairs, September 1975
A.2.6     Annual Reports on Maritime Fishing Sector 1969-75
A.2.7     Report on Handliner Project and Caisse d'Encouragement a la
Peche et aux Industries Annexes
A.2.8     Project for an auction hall for fish in the Port of Dakar
December 1974
A.2.9     Project for the creation of a Central Fishing Market Hall for
the urban area of Dakar (July 1974)
A.2.10    Training Program for Maritime Fishing (February 1975)
A.2.11    Fishing Development Projects in Northern Casamance and creation
of a Fishing Center at Kafoutime (May 1975)
A.2.12    General situation of the Fishing Ports of Casamance (July 1975)
A.2.13    Project for renewal of canoes (July 1975)
A.2.14    Proposals on possible assistance of the World Bank in Maritime
Fishery in Senegal
A.2.15    The Handliner Pilot Project:  situation after 20 months of operations
A.2.16    Present situation of the Fishing Ports in Senegal
A.2.17    Senegalese fish processing plants situation in 1975
A.2.18    Dakar Artisanal Trawler Project (October 1975)
A.2.19    The Handliner Fleet of Dakar (December 1974)
Office de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique Outre-Mer (ORSTOM)
- Oceanographic Research Center of Dakar
A.2.20    The Trawler Fishing in Dakar from 1965-1972 (November 1973)



ANNEX
Page 3
A.2.21      First Estimate on Pelagic Resources on the Continental Shelf
of the North West African Coast (November 1972)
A.2.22      Pelagic Fishing Yield Charts on the North Western African
Continental Shelf (May 1973)
A.2.23      Horse Mackerel Stocks on Senegalese and Mauritanian Waters
A.2.24      First Estimate on the Actual and Potential Production of
Demersal Fish on Senegalese-Mauritanian continental shelf
FAO/IBRD Studies on Fishing in West Africa
A.2.25      FAO - The Fishery Economics of the West African Countries,
A Regional Study by R. Aubray (September 1971)
A.2.26      FAO - The Fishery Resources of West Africa by R. Aubray (June 1971)
A.2.27      FAO/IBRD - The Fisheries of West Africa, June 1973
A.2.28      FAO/IBRD - Draft Report on Artisanal Fisheries in Senegal - Identification
Mission - September 1976
SCET-International
A.2.29      Economic Development of Fishing in Senegal by Dr. R.A. Moal
(IBRD project), 1969
A.2.30      Handbook of Tropical Maritime Fishing, Volume I by Dr. R.A. Moal 1974
B.          REPORTS ON PROJECT PRE-INVESTMIENT STUDIES
B.1         Design and Construction Tender Documents for Extension of Fishing
Port in Dakar, PAD, September 1974
B.2         Analysis of Investment Cost, Fishing Port Extension, BCEOM,
March 1976
B.3 (a)-(e) Tender Documents for Lots. 1 - 5 Fishing Port Extension, Dakar
BCEOM, 5 Volumes, May 1976
B.4 (a)-(c) Financial and Economic Study of Fishing Port Extension in Dakar
SCET-International/SONED, 3 Volumes, December 1975
B.5         FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program - Fisheries Identification Mission
(August 1974)
B.6         The Fisheries of Senegal - A Study by Dr. R.A. Aubray, FAO, June 1976



ANNEX
Page 4
C.        SELECTED WORKING PAPERS ETC. PREPARED BY THE EVALUATION MISSION
C.1       Economie Evaluation
C.1.1     Characteristics of Dakar Industrial Fishing Fleet - actual and
forecast
C.1.2     Investment Costs for Modernization and Extension of the Fleet
C.1.3     Operating Costs of Fishing Vessels
C 1.4     Fish Landings by species and type of vessels - actual and forecast
C.1.5     Utilization of Fish Landings.  Export forecast of fish products
C.1.6     Operating Costs of Processing Plants and Related Services
C.1.7     Investment Forecast in Processing Plants and Cold Storage
C.1.8     Berthing Requirements for Fishing Vessels.  Proposals for new wharf
C.1.9     Summary Tables on Economic Costs and Benefit Stream
C.2       Financial Evaluation
C.2.1     Income Statements of PAD and Statements of Source and Application
of Funds of PAD, Consolidated, 1972/73 to 1982/83
C.2.2     Income Statements of PAD, Fishing Activities, 1975/76 to 1982/83
C.2.3     Balance Sheets of PAD - Consolidated 1972-73 to 1982-83
C.2.4     Statements of PAD Traffic - Import and Export - 1971-72 to 1982-83.



S SENEGAL                                                      f              M  A U R                                                   I T A  N                                 f A
LOCATION OF FISHING PORT
SE   LAi ~_1-
EXISTIN G PAVE D  ROA DS                                                                                                                                                                Gn,io S               L            r             i K
-       RPAVED LAAS UNDER CONSTRLICTION              o                                                                                                                                                           )
GRAVEL ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                       b /  \
-   --ERTH ROADSS                                                                                                                                                                                                           e
R--i-  AILROADS                                                                                                                                                                              n                                  EGo           E
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES            /,
b-T           e ro           M       u    l kh.e                                                                                               <       %       -        oS              W
NAn                              nhol          ak       oone   d2 sZn                                       7                                  neIebl.
NgOJiET  hO-ATION                       . n          nobo, O/con
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oNo B,,^\,  `                                                                                        -X 
O         LOCAT                                                      or                                                                                                                                                                     Tu 4'o  I
D.Bo.o  N5 ,d
1okm~~       A   =Ai T/ U    Ir't 
Mod obo \        -4 T                                                              v                                G    'b n       N     E ,      5, d
O1                     E     N2~S O7OSOO        ,N
,310a~~~~~~~~~~~COC~~~~~~~,  y,,.~~~~~k.1                                                                N~.k K-






IRD 12251R
'f_,  g  <  A    u  ,                                          SENEGAL
;YACHT CLU8                     DAKAR PROPOSED FISHING PORT PROJECT
Existing Pod and Approaches
_9 a   '5`  t   fSHOWING ZONING
9                  979.H/; -, VNPOrC  OL nRM
9W1t -               '.:                                                            R9oi Works                       i
----P09* Boundo,y
N4,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                          CS*oms oodory
m0 200  000  00  00    1000
'7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '                      IETERS
'7                                                       O      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000    2000    20
990RECLAME
~~~~/  ~ ~ ~      ~        ~        ~        ~       ~         
;Ete~~~~~~~~ 997 0                                                                         D A K  A R
0                0'00ER                          A  N   C  H  O  R  A   G  E
07'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
ewr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b : 
L x  ' N  '1 -\ \             /    \        |                               "",b ,Q h, 11EEIr .sO;uY 6"k~~~~~MAU 1 TN 1 
\ atN gor,esffn,7L ;^N c) z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NE G MAURTAL
70        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
*9-~~~~~~~~~~~t            T       'f\                                       tg_5     
1t.  S    t  a                 X       ~~~~~~~~~~Wind Regime              JP5             _
i                               <   r 7 ,, 6 '. 0  :z i . , M                                                      G   E    z
9  97~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Go.NE






IBRD 12252
g MAUR~~ITANIA /\|Sd
SE NEGAL
DAKAR PROPOSED FISHINGPORT PROJECT
i                      ~~~~~PROJECT DETA~L
SE EA                                         OeC osfo   s>/ S   NA.VIGATION AIDS                     RJTD A
i. _9 qMALI //ttuD g r~~~MAINTENANCE   
| l5SSAU(, GUINE-A  2   .   /X<   <  /`  -  F-++ii  `
.  xdHr sSo oa ta/1 may do rm! //y Z xf -- Fvlur t r rucfbor md CIWMKdn
pC~~~~~~~  No. ~   ~        ~       ~       ~      SA 
yyLjodit   : dlZe                        /(Mt /fECS
//` \k           -                         ',',';  ',`"",t','`,X        A> S   S'--NG.
/r, S\     Q//                     A/'       ' ,'             - . -M-A;,K..T
JX`/                                  //-`"t-s`-`
ciSXh
AY5~~~At 5L<                                  X        /



