CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1405 T-SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Dakar Fishing Port Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PORT AUTONOME DE DAKAR
Dated June 7, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and PORT AUTONOME DE DAKAR (hereinafter called PAD).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween the Republic of Senegal (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million
dollars ($6,ooo,ooo), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that PAD agree to under-
take such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
PAD, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be made available to PAD on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS PAD, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PAD shall carry out Parts I, II and III A of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist PAD in (i) the supervision
and control of the civil works under Part I of the Project,
(ii) the implementation of Part II of the Project, and (iii) the
carrying out of the study included under Part III of the Project,
PAD shall employ engineering, management, accounting and tariff
consultants and experts in such number and with such qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment as shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) PAD undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by PAD to replace or repair such goods.


﻿(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PAD shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrover to be used exclusively for the Proj-
ect.
Section 2.05. (a) PAD shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) PAD: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to iden-
tify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan so relent to it and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) PAD shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment
of PAD and any relevant records and documents.


﻿Section 2.06. PAD shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, PAD shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiv-
ing the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. PAD shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and
operation) of the facilities included in the Project and shall
furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) PAD shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) PAD shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
or the performance by PAD of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PAD
Section 3.01. PAD shall at all times manage its affairs,
plan the development of its properties and facilities and maintain
its financial position in accordance with appropriate adminis5rative,
financial, engineering and port management practices under the
supervision of experienced and competent management; and shall
cause its plant, equipment, properties and facilities to be main-
tained and operated and all necessary renewals and repairs thereto
to be made, all in accordance with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and port management practices.
Section 3.02. PAD shall maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. PAD shall take all steps necessary to maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which
are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.04. Except in the normal course of business, PAD
shall not, without prior consultation with the Bank, sell, transfer,
distribute or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets
which shall be required for the efficient conduct of its operations.


﻿Section 3.05. PAD shall implement a plan satisfactory to
the Bank for the resettlement of the persons engaged in small-
scale trade activities in the port-zone who will be displaced
under the port zoning plan.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PAD shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. PAD shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of PAD and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PAD shall take or cause to be taken from time to time all
action within its power (including the introduction and implemen-
tation of revised tariffs and rates in consultation with the Bank)
as shall be nece--sary or required on its part to produce revenues
sufficient: (i) to cover (A) the operating expenses of PAD (including
adequate provision for depreciation and maintenance) and taxes,


﻿9
if any, and (B) debt service; and (ii) to yield an annual return
of not less than 6% for its fiscal year 1976/1977, 5.5% for each
of its fiscal years from fiscal year 1977/1978 through the fiscal
year during which the Project shall have been completed, and 4.75%
for each of its following fiscal years, on the average net value
of PAD's fixed assets in operation.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) above:
(i) the term "debt service" shall mean the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund pay-
ment, if any), interest and other charges on debt;
(ii) the annual return shall be calculated by dividing
PAD's net operating income for the fiscal year
in question by one-half of the sum of the net
value of PAD's fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that year;
(iii) the term "net operating income" shall mean the
difference between:
(A) gross operating revenue accruing from PAD's
services, and
(B) operating, maintenance and administrative ex-
penses, including adequate provision for
depreciation, and income taxes, if any,
but excluding interest and other charges
on debt; and


﻿- 10 -
(iv) the term "net value of PAD's fixed assets in
operation" means the gross book value of such
assets less the amount of accumulated depreciation,
both as valued from time to time in accordance with
Section 4.05 of this Agreement.
Section 4.04. In carrying out Part II of the Project, PAD
shall, with the assistance of the consultants and experts employed
pursuant to Section 2.02 of this Agreement and not later than
July 1, 1978 or such other date as the Bank may agree, introduce
and thereafter maintain (i) an analytical accounting system,
(ii) a new cost-related tariff structure acceptable to the Bank,
and (iii) a new ad valorem tariff system, acceptable to the Bank
and PAD, for fishing traffic.
Section 4.05. In view of determining appropriate tariffs,
and for the purposes of Section 4.03 of this Agreement, PAD
shall, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
methods of valuation acceptable to the Bank and in consultation
with the Bank, revalue by June 30, 1978 or such other date as
shall be agreed with the Bank its fixed assets in operation
during its fiscal year 1977-1978 and thereafter revalue such as-
sets at intervals not exceeding five years, such intervals to be
determined in consultation with the Bank.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PAD shall take all steps necessary to maintain for each of its
fiscal years a working ratio of not more than 60% through its
fiscal year 1979/1980 and 55% thereafter.


﻿- 11 -
(b) For the purposes of this Section, the term "working
ratio" means the sum of the operating, maintenance and administra-
tive expenses, excluding depreciation, taxes (if any), interest
and other charges on debt (if any), and surplus cash to be deposited
with the Borrower's treasury, accountable to the fiscal year in
question, divided by the gross operating revenues accountable to
the same fiscal year.
Section 4.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PAD shall not incur any debt if its net revenues for the
fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-
month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever amount is
the greater, shall be less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service
requirements on all debt (including the debt to be incurred) in
any succeeding fiscal year. For the purposes of this Section:
(i) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a loan agreement providing
for such debt or, in the case of a guarantee of debt,
on the date of execution and delivery of the agree-
ment providing for such guarantee but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt shall be outstand-
ing;
(ii) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues from
operations adjusted to take account of PAD's
tariffs in effect at the time of incurrence
of the debt even though they were not in effect
during the twelve consecutive months to which
such revenues relate, less operating, administrative


﻿- 12 -
and overhead expenses, including adequate maintenance
expenses and provisions for taxes, if any, but be-
fore provision for depreciation, interest and other
charges on debt;
(iii) the term "debt service requirements" means the ag-
gregate amunt of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and
(iv) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the cur-
rency of the Borrower debt payable in another cur-
rency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of
the rate of exchange at which such other currency
is obtainable by PAD, at the time such valuation
is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt
or, if such other currency is not so obtainable,
at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Bank.
Section 4.08. PAD shall take all necessary measures to
reduce its current receivables to a level satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 4.09. During the implementation of the Project,
PAD shall consult with the Bank prior to making any expendi-
tures, or commitments for expenditures, for fixed or capital
assets (including major renewals and replacements of assets),
other than those included in the Project, if such investments
exceed an annual average of CFAF500,000,000.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of PAD thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)  a date 20 years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of
this Section, the Bank shall promptly notify PAD of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145  (wUl)
For PAD:
Port Autonome de Dakar
B.P. 3195
Dakar
Republic of Senegal
Cable address:                Telex:
PORCOMER                      4o6


﻿- 15 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of PAD may be taken or executed by the Director
of PAD or such other person or persons as the Director of PAD shall
designate in writing.
Section 6.03. PAD shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the
person or persons who will, on behalf of PAD, take any action or
execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed
by PAD pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
PORT AUTONOME DE DAKAR
By /s / Andrg Coulbary
Authorized Representative


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    International Competitive Bidding
1.    Contracts for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    (i) Bidders for the works included in Part I of the
Project shall be prequalified as described in
paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines. Bidders
shall be prequalified on the basis of five separate
lots corresponding to each one of the individual
Parts I A through E of the Project.
(ii) Prequalified bidders shall be invited to (A) tender
separately for each one of the five lots referred
to in subparagraph (i) above, and (B) tender globally
for all the lots for which they have been prequalified.
(iii) If more than one bidder shall have been selected for
carrying out Part I of the Project, PAD shall
afford such bidders the opportunity to enter into
arrangements under which the bidder selected for the
carrying out of Part I A of the Project shall take the


﻿- 19 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, PAD shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and PAD and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


