Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10610-CRA
SThA  APPRAISAL REP(rJT
CfINA
SECOND SHUIOU FDROELECTRIC PROJECT
August 10, 1992
MICROFiCHE COPY
Report No. :1o61o-CHA    Type: (SAR)
Title:   SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC  PROJECT
Author: TRE:MATH, B
Ext.: 82891 Roora:F10045 Dept.: ASTEG
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department 11
E-ast Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a resticted distibion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwlse be disciosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALNTS
(As of January 31, 1992)
Currency   =   Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00   -   100 fen
$1.00   =   Y 5.q3
Y 1.00   =   $0.18
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
km    =     Kilometer (= 0.62 riles)
kWh   =     Kilowatt hour (= 860.42 kcals)
GWh   =     Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
TWh   =     Teraw&tt hour (1,000,000,000 kilowatt hours)
kW    =     Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW    -     Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
GW    =     Gigawatt (1 million kilowatts)
kcal  =     Kilocalorie (= 3.97 British thermal units)
kV    =     Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA   =     Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MBtu  =     Million British thermal units
MJ    =     Mega-joule (1 million joules)
MVA   =     Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
GVA   =     Gigawatt-ampere (1 million kilovolt-ampere)
m     =     Milligram
*,-    =    Cubic Meter
toe   =     tons of oil equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BERI   -  Beijing Economic Research Institute for Water Resources and Electric
Power
ECIDI  -  East China Investigation and Design Institute
FPEPB  -  Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau
FPG       Fujian Province Grid
GFP    -  Government of Fujian Province
GNP    -  Gross National Product
GOC    -  Government of China
HIPDC  -  Huaneng International Power Development Corporation
IER    -  Independent Evaluation of Resettlement
MKE    -  Morrison Knudsen Engineering Company
MOE    -  Ministry of Energy
MOF    -  Ministry of Finance
MWREP  -  Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
NEPA   -  National Environmental Protection Agency
PCBC   -  People's Construction Bank of China
SAA    -  State Audit Administration
SBC    -  Special Board of Consultants
SCADA  -  Supervisory Control and Data Aquisition System
SEIC   -  State Energy Investment Corporation
SPC    -  State Planning Commission
SRRO   -  Shuikou Reservoir Resettlement Office



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:            People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:         Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau (FPEPB)
Amounts               $100 million equivalent
Terms:               Twenty years, including five years grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate, with level principal
repayments.
Onlendinq Terms:     The proceeds of the loan will be onlent from the Borrower
to FPEPB under a subsidiary loan agreement, with a 20-
year term, including five years grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate, with level principal
repayments. FPEPB will bear the foreign exchange risk
and the commitment charges.
Proiect Obiectives
and DescriDtion:   Background.  The Bank's involvement in the Shuikou Hydro-
electric Scheme dates from its inception in 1987. In
view of the long gestation period of the project, the
Bank approved a loan (Loan 2775-CHA) covering the initial
implementation period and agreed to consider a second
loan covering the later years of implementation. The
first loan has served to support the introduction of
modern planning, procurement and construction methods,
and the enhancement of environmental and resettlement
policies. Achievements to date include: relocation of
the railway and other infrastructure; completion of exca-
vation and placing about 75 percent of dam concrete;
commencement of powerhouse equipment erection; and reset-
tlement of about 57,000 peopl..  Construction is current-
ly on schedule. Studies dealing with optimal mixed sys-
tem operation, power system planning, and automated con-
trol of the power grid, have also been largely completed.
Obiectives. The proposed second loan would help finance
the completion of the ongoing Shuikou Hydroelectric
Scheme, thus furthering the objectives of the first
phase. In addition the project would promote: (a)
transfer of modern power system technology; (b) power
price reform; (c) management training to assist the power
bureau to cope with increasing demands placed on it by
decentralization; and (d) optimal system expansion.
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



D ii -
Proiect Descriotion. The proposed project would first
pro de for the completion of the Shuikou Hydroelectric
Scheme, all components of which were partly or fully
covered covered under the first loan. These are: (a)
construction of a concrete gravity dam (101 m high) with
associated spillway, powerhouse and navigation lock; (b)
provision and installation of seven 200 MW generating
sets; (c) environmental management and resettlement of
some 67,000 people; and (d) consultancy services for
design, procurement and construction management. In
addition, the second-phase project would include: (a)
increased capacitv of navigation facilities by construc-
ting a shiplift in addition to the originally proposed
shiplock; (b) provision of an automated control (SCADA)
system for the Fujian power grid; (c) implementation of
an action plan for tariff reform; (d) provision of tech-
nical assistence and training for planning, commercial
and financial management, and project-related technology
and meaagement; and (e) a study to explore hydro-based
seasonal energy storage options in Fujian Province and
completion of studies on system planning and operations.
Benefits and
Risks:              Benefits.  The proposed project will provide reliable and
economical electricity supply to the Fujian Province,
without major adverse environmental impacts. It will
help Fujian to cope with a rapidly growing industrial
demand resulting from the province opening to the outside
world and will contribute to a further improvement in the
living standards of the population. The project is part
of the least-cost investment program for the Fujian grid,
which has an IERR of 11.4 percent based on the average
tariff required to meet financial covenants, and 19 per-
cent, valuing incremental consumption using, as "willing-
ness to pay," the price paid for new consumption under
the multitier tariff currently applied in Fujian. Indi-
rect benefits arise from an improvement in navigational
conditions in the Min River, upgrading of infrastrt^ture
and housing as part of the resettlement program and
avoidance of thermal generation with associated environ-
mental impacts of burning 1.6 million of standard coal/
year.
Risks. The risks generally associated with hydroelectric
projects, related to potential cost and schedule over-
runs, are very low for the current project, in which
foundations and river bed work are complete, only one
flood season remains prior to dam completion, and the
first generating unit is on schedule for commissioning in
June 1993. Similarly, the risk of poorly handled reset-
tlement has largely receded with successful implementa-
tion to date. The risk remains that some people affected
by the resettlement program will be disadvantaged during
the period taken to bring new production systems up to



- iii -
full capacity. This risk is being minimized by the Inde-
pendent Evaluation of Resettlement (IER), and assurances
being obtained from the Government that it will ac'; on
the results of the IER to supplement incomes as necessary
during the transition period.
Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign       Total
…------- ($ million) --------
Preparatory Works                                 10.5          -         10.5
Resettlement                                      23.4          -         23.4
Civil works                                       24.3         45.3       69.6
Metal works                                        8.5         11.7       20.2
Electric and mechanical equipment                 47.3         26.7       74.0
Engineering and construction supervision          10.0          3.5       13.5
Administration                                      5.5         -          5.5
Technical assistance and training                  0.2          1.5        1.7
Base cost /a                                 129.7         88.7     218.4
Physical contingencies                                9.0         7.1       16.1
Price contingencies                                   6.6         4.2       10.8
Total Proiect Cost                           145.3        100.0     245.3
Interest during construction /b                     50.0         25.7       75.7
Total Financina Recuired                     195.3        125.7     321.0
Financina Plan
Government (SEIC)                                195.3         25.7      221.0
IBRD                                               -          100.0      100.0
Total                                        195.3        125.7     321.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                  1993         1994        1995         1996         1997
…---------------- ($ million) -------------------
Annual                   32.0         53.3         13.3         1.2          0.2
Cumulative               32.0         85.3        98.6         99.8        100.0
Economic Rate of Return:  19 percent
La  The project is exempt from taxes and duties.
/ Interest during construction (IDC) is based on onlending rate for pro-
jected disbursement of loan proceeds. Foreign currency portion of IDC is
based on Bank loan variable rate.



v
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE  ENERGY  SECTOR   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
A. Overview  . . . . . .1
B. Energy Sector Issues  .. .  . . . . .  . . .        .       2
C. Energy Sector Strategy  . .. .  .  . .  .. .  .  .  .  .  .   .  5
D. Bank Role in the Energy Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
II.  THE POWER SUBSECTOR . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
A. Background  . . . . . . . .    ... .......  . . .  .        7
B. Institutions Planning and Technology Transfer . . . . . .    7
C. Power Pricing ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ....  .  8
D. Subsector Issues and Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
E. Role of Bank in the Power Subsector . . . . . . . . . . .   10
III.  THE BENEFICIARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
A. Legal Status and organization . . . . . . . . . . .  .     11
B. Management  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..... .  .  .  .   .   11
C. Staffing and Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
D. Planning, Budgeting and Control . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
E. Accounting  . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    13
F.   Audit    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
G. Electricity Tariffs . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .         14
H. Billing and Collection  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .   .    16
I. Computer Applications and Information Management  . . . .   17
J. Insurance ..* .  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . .   .    .    17
This report is based on the findings of preappraisal and appraisal missions
which visited China in April 1990 and June/July 1991. Participating in the
missions were Messrs/Mmes. Y. Albouy (Principal Energy Economist), S. Shum
(Senior Financial Analyst) (preappraisal), B. Trembath (Senior Power Engi-
neer), 0. Koenig (Senior Economist) W. Partridge (Senior Anthropologist) (both
missions); H.E. Sun (Financial Analyst) and D. Graybill (Consultant) (apprais-
al). The report was prepared by B. Trembath, H.E. Sun and 0. Koenig. Peer
reviewers comprised: A. Ceyhan (Senior Power Engineer), K. Jechoutek (Princi-
pal Econamist), M. Rasheed (Senior Financial Analyst), and S. Guggenheim
(Environmental Specialist). The Division Chief is Janet de Merode and the
Department Director is Shahid Javed Burki.



- vi -
IV.  POWER MARKET AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
A. Background on the Ftjian Province  . .   . . . . . . . .   18
S. Energy Resources of Fujian  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
C. The Fujian Power Grid (FPG) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
D. Power Demand:  Trends and Forecasts . . . . . . . . . . .   19
S. Investment Program.. . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
V. THE PROJECT.. . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
A. Project Background and Objectives . ... ... . .   .        23
B. Project Description . .    .........  .  . .. .....  .   23
C. Project Impl ientation and operation   ...    . ...    24
D. Resettlement and Environment Aspects  . . . . . . . . . .   26
E. Project Cost .   . ....... . .... .... . . . .    29
F. Financing Plan  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . . .     . *. o
G. Procurement . . .. .  .......           . .. . . ... .    31
H. Disbursements . . ....      . ....... .  . ...   33
I. Monitoring and Reporting.                  ... . . .    33
VI.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS . . .       ... . . . .   34
A. Introduction.. . . . . . 0  34
B. Past and Present Financial Performance  . . . . . . . . .   34
C. Financial Performance Targets . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
D. Future Finances.. . t . .  36
E. Financing Plan  . . . . . .. . . . . . .   37
VII.  JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   39
A. Project Benefits  ... .  .   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . 39
B. Project as Least Cost Generating Alternative  . . . . . .   39
C. Project Size and Timing ................ .    40
D. Economic Rate of Return . ........ . . . . .   40
E.   Project  Risks   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  *.  40
VIII.  AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . .  . . . . . .   42
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1   Distribution of FPEPB's Sales - 1991 . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
4.1   Economic Growth and Power Generation in Fujian Trends
and Forecasts  . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . .    20
4.2   Comparison of Latest Forecast for FPG with Shuikou I Forecast  20
4.3   Investment Program for the Fujian Province Grid  .. . . . . .   22
5.1   Cost Estimate  . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
5.2   Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
5.3   Summary of Procur?ement Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
6.1   FPEPB's Key Financial Indicators, 1986-90      . .    . . .  . . .   35
6.2   Key Financial Indicators, 1991-2000  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   36
6.3   FPEPB's Financing Plan, CY92-96  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   38



- vii -
ANNEXES
1.1   Production and Consumption of Enargy and its Composition .......  44
1.2   organization Chart of MOE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    45
2.1   Installed Capacity, Electricity Generation, and Sales
in the Power Subjector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    46
2.2   Gruwth Index cG Electricity Generation and Primary
Energy  Demand                      . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  47
2.3   Electricity Consumption by Sector .  . . . . . .     . . . .    48
3.1   FPEPB Organization        . . . . . . . . . . .        . . . .    49
3.2   Performance Indicators for FPEPB . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   50
3.3 Staff of FPEb .. . .   .    . 51
3.4   FPEr" s Existing Training Facilities and Expansion Program . .   52
3.5   Financial Management Training .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
3.6   Sales and Tariffs by Category - First Quarter 1991 . . . . . .   56
3.7   Action Plan for Tariff Structure Improvements  . . . . . . . .   57
3.8   Terms of Reference for Tariff Study  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   59
3.9   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Training
for Planning and Commercial Management . . . . . . . . . . . .   62
4.1   Installed Capacity, Generation and Energy Sales of FPEPB . . .   65
4.2   Economic Growth and Electricity Consumption in Fujian 1980-90    66
4.3   Supply and Demand Balance in the Regions Supplied by FPEPB . .   67
4.4   Demand Forecasts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   68
5.1   Salient Physical Features of the Project . . . . . . . . . . .   71
5.2   Organization Chart of SHPC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   73
5.3   Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   74
5.4   Resettlement Plan and Implementation Experience  . . . . . . .   75
5.5   Major Environmental Impacts and Environmental Management Plan    81
5.6   Project Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   86
5.7   Procurement Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   99
5.8   Disbursement Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  101
6.1   Financial System Followed by Chinese Power Bureaus . . . . . .  102
6.2   Annual Financial Statements of FPEPB .            . . . . . .   105
6.3   Assumptions to FPEPB's Firancial Projections . . . . . . . . .  108
7.1   Economic Analysis of Power Plant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  114
8.1   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File  .    118
1AiP
1   Fujian Power Grid (IBRD 23596R)



CH xNA
SECOND SHUIXOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Overview
1.1       China has made remarkable progress in developing its energy
resources over the last four decades and has become the third lar-vpa. producer
of commercial energy in the world.  In 1990, the country's prit..W.,  inmercial
energy supply amounted to 727 million tons of oil equivalent (toe), while
final consumption was about 686 million toe. Still, energy consumption per
capita is low, about 0.6 toe, or one-third of the world average. Coal is the
most important source of commercial energy, accounting for about 74 percent of
total prrduction. Oil (19 percent), hydroelectric power (4.6 percent), natu-
ral gas (2 percent), and small quantities of shale oil and geothermal power
make up the balance. Production and consumption of commercial energy for the
period 1978-90 are given in Annex 1.1. The industrial sector accounts for
62 percent of total consumption, followed by households (24 percent), services
(9 percent), and agriculture (5 percent). About 20 percent of oil and 2 per-
cent of coal production are exported, accounting for about 7 percent and
1 percent, respectively, of China's merchandise exports.
Energv Resources
1.2       China has large coal reserves of about 900 billion tons, of which
30 percent are proven. It produced 1.1 billion tons of raw coal in 1990, and
aims to produce 1.4 billion tons by the year 2000. The best quality coals are
found in North China, where Shanxi and Inner Mongolia each have reserves of
over 200 billion tons. However, insufficient transport capacity makes it dif-
ficult to move this coal to the large consuming centers.
1.3       China's hydroelectric Potential is estimated at 1,900 TWh a year,
but only about 9 percent of it has been developed. Most of the potential is
located in four major river basins in the Southwest (70 percent) and Northwest
(12 percent), about 1,500 km away from the main demand centers. The long ges-
tation period and large capital costs of hydroelectric projects have also
inhibited a faster development.
1.4       China's ultimately recoverable reserves of crude oil have been esti-
mated at some 80 billion tons, of which 16 percent are proven. The country
produced 138 million tons in 1990, and the target for year 2000 is 200 million
tons. Natural gas reserves are estimated at 33 trillion m3, of which 2.6 per-
cent are proven; production was 15 billion m3 in 1990. About 50 percent of
gas produced is nonassociated gas, the bulk of which is located in Sichuan.
Most of the gas is used as feedstock for fertilizers and petrochemicals.
1.5       Noncommercial biomass energy accounts for about one quarter of total
energy consumption. It currently exceeds environmentally sustainable supply
levels, causing shortages of rural household fuel and deforestation problems.



-2-
GOC is addressing the problem, by promoting more efficient use of biomass
fuel, tree planting, and fuel substitution.
1.6       Known uranium reserves in China are eufficient to sustain 15,000 MW
of nuclear Power for 30 years. Qinshan nuclear power plant (300 MW), near
Shanghai, was commissioned in 1992, and Daya Bay (2x900 MW) is planned in
1992/93; 70 percent of Daya Bay's output is Jntended for nearby Hong Kong.
The construction of a few additional nuclear power plants is planned before
the year 2000, primarily in regions which lack coal or hydroelectric
resources.
1.7       Other energy resources play a small role in energy supply and are
used mostly in remote areas. Geothermal energy has been found in more than
3,000 locations covering nearly all provinces and autonomous regions. In
Ttbut, the Yangbajing geothermal power plant supplies about 20 percent of the
electricity consumption in Lhasa's power system.
Institutions of the Enerav Sect.or
1.8       The Ministry of Energy (MOE), established in 1988, has primary
responsibility for policy, planning, and regulations regarding the rational
development and use of energy resources. MOE oversees various companies and
administrations respcnsible for operations in individual energy industries.
Annex 1.2 shows the organization chart of MOE.
1.9       The State Energy Investment Corporation (SEIC) was established to
handle project financing in the coal and electricity industries. SEIC onlends
funds for projects of national importance and represents the GOC in the joint
financing of projects with other parties; it is expected to operate as a reve-
nue earning entity. Both MOE and SEIC operate with the guidance of the State
Planning Commission (SPC), which has ultimate authority for project approval,
budget allocations, and financing arrangements.
Enerqv Investments
1.10      Energy investments in the 1980s were planned assuming GNP growth
rate of 7.5 percent. Actual growth, and more so industrial growth, exceeded
the targets by a significant margin, which nas exacerbated energy shortages
already existing at the outset. In the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1985-90), GOC
gave high priority to energy and also to transport, a bottleneck in the devel-
opment of energy resources. I 1989, investments for capital construction in
the energy sector amounted to .' 43 billion ($12 billion), 28 percent of the
total for state owned enterprises, as against 21 percent in the early 1980s.
The power sector accounted for 62 percent of the total. Some 20 percent of
energy investments were financed by foreign loans and direct investments.
B. Enerav Sector Issues
1.11      In addition to the already noted shortages, the main energy sector
issues are: (i) the high energy intensity of the Chinese economy; (ii) the
dominance of coal and associated environmental problems; (iii) the need to
improve scale and technology of energy industries; (iv) inappropriate energy
pricing; and (v) the weak investment funding system.



-3-
Inteneitv of Enerav Use
1.12      China's consumption of commercial energy per capita is low, but con-
sumption per unit of GDP is high compared with other countries. The structure
of the Chinese economy, the use of inefficient technology and inadequate
energy management practices are all major contributing factors. Since the
early 1980s, GOC has placed a strong emphasis on efficiency improvement.
Between 1978 and 1990, the average growth in conmercial energy use was about
half that of GNP, and the energy intensity per unit of GNP was reduced by
about one third (Annex 1.1).   Targets for the 1990s are based on a growth
rate of 3 percent for primary energy, and 6 percent for GNP, implying that
about half of the increase in enp--vy services will have to come from e!fi-
ciency improvements.  Meeting this target will require very strong energy
conservation programs.
The Dominance of Coal and Related Environmental ProbLems
1.13      Coal dominates in industrial, electric power and household energy
uses. Many environmental problems stem from this heavy use of coal and from
the dispersed, small-scale applications of coal in industry and households.
These include water pollution from disposal of mining wastes, ash disposal in
dense urban areas, sulphur dioxide and particulate emissions. The latter are
particularly serious because of the high ash content of the coal used, and
incomplete combustion due to poor matching of coal. quality to boiler type.
1.14      These environmental implications highlight the need for stronger
regulatory enforcement and more incentives and investments towards coal con-
servation and environmental impact mitigation. Cleaner fuels should also be
explored particularly for households, but the scope for substitution is lim--
ited by insufficient confirmed natural gas resources and increasing absorption
of oil production by transport and petrochemicals. Emphasis on hydropower is
increasing but major resources are far from main load centers.
Scale and Technoloav in Energv Industries
1.15      Over half of the coal produced in China is from small-scale mining
operations using traditional technologies such as hand hewing or drilling and
blasting. There is considerable potential for developing medium-sized mines
utilizing semi-mechanized or mechanized systems, with good coal washing facil.-
ities. This, together with improved design and technology in larger, cen-
trally controlled mines, would reduce safety and environmental problems while
improving output and coa) W.uality.
1.16      Large-scale Dower development will improve energy efficiency and
environmental protection. New power plants, with large unit capacities con-
sume about 25-40 percent less coal per kWh than older smaller plants, and
23 percent less than the current average. Particulate removal is also
improved.
1.17      There is also potential for productivity improvements in the vetro-
leum sector by upgrading technology in exploration, oil field development and
recovery techniques. Improvements in operating and maintenance practices and
better reservoir management would also help to raise sector productivity.



..4
Enerquv Ptiginq
1.18      Energy prices have risen substantially over the past five years.
Coal prices have risen due to expansion of the free market which accounts for
up to 50 percent of sales in some regions, with market prices in East China,
for example, close to international prices. However, while the administered
price of coal has been raised, it iB still below supply cost.
i.19      While the average price levels ol "ome light Petroleum products are
close to international prices, average prices of crude oil and heavy fuel oil
are substantially lower. Producer prices for natural qas are also distorted
and should be adjusted to encourage exploration and rescurce development.
1.20      Electrici_ty prices have increased substantially since 1987/88 due to
the "new plant/new price" dual pricing policy. However tariff structures are
very complex and include substantial distortions. The "old" administered
price has also been raised to reflect coal price increases, but has not kept
up with total cost increases (paras. 2.11-2.13).
1.21      The recent increases in coal and electricity prices are encouraging
conservation and sound investment decisions in the sector, but full benefits
will not be realized while the dual pricing system for energy remains.  Plan
prices below market encourage consumers to use  lels covered by the plan
regardless of suitability, while suppliers focus on fuels offering market
prices, neglecting user requirements in the administered sector. For example,
low prices for clean burning town gas discourage investments in increased
supply. Similarly, the low "old" electricity tariff applying to older users
provides little incentive for efficiency improvement, while new more efficient
industries pay a "now" price which may exceed the economic cost. A unified
price system would simplify price management and eliminate rent-seeking behav-
ior, and raising plan prices towards market prices would enable the sector to
generate the financial resources necessary for its expansion.
1.22      Other improvements in price structure would also foster more effi-
cient use and development of energy resources. Present coal prices do not
fully reflect differences in quality and electricity tariffs insufficiently
reflect differences in supply costs for various voltage* or consumption pat-
terns.
1.23      In summary, China needs strong price incentives to support its
energy conservation policy and rationalize energy investment funding. It must
continue to raise energy prices, close the gap between administered and market
prices of coal, and correct distortions in price structure. Energy prices
would still remain very competitive from an international viewpoint. GOC is
committed to its overall price Laform program, and has recently reduced rubsi-
dies in a number of basic commodities, such as grains, cement, and steel. It
has also indicated its readiness to phase out dual pricina for coal and elec-
tricity, and energy is one of its priority sector for price reform.
Investment Fundq.na System
1.24      While the share of funds channeled into the energy sector is now
approaching acceptable levels, investment funding has suffered fro.n distorted
pricing policies which led to a suboptimal development of energy sources.



-5.-
Energy enterprises may not retain a substantial portion of their internally
generated cash, and to reduce financial pressures on the central government,
responsibility for investment funding has gradually been shifting to the prov-
inces. In the coal subsector, local production now exceeds state production
but is not operating at the scale required for mayimum productivity and
safety. In the power subsector, power shortages have led some local enter-
prises to invest in their own power plants, and the investment approval system
biases investment in favor of less efficient, small-scale plants, which do not
reqaire clearance or financial contribution by the central government.
C. Energy Sector strateav
1.25      GOC is working to eliminate energy shortages in an environment of
rapid economic growth, the key objectives being to: (a) accelerate the expan-
sion of electric power and oil/gas production; (b) expand and improve the
scale of coal production; (c) increase thie efficiency and change the forms of
coal utilization; (d) minimize the environmental impact of energy use; (e)
rationalize energy prices and investment funding; and (f) encourage the trans-
fer of modern know-how and technology to energy industries.
1.26      Allcwing the power subsector a larger share in final energy consump-
Lion will help to modernize the Chinese economy, reduce overall energy inten-
sities, and curtail pollution through the harnessing of hydropower, more effi-
cient technologies, and larger-scale plants. The same holds true for the oil
and natural gas subsect3rs, both of which yield cleaner, more efficient fuels
than coal. Continued development of coal mining is inescapable, but it must
occur with higher efficiency, safety, and environmental acceptability.
D. Bank Role in the Energy Sector
1.27      The Bank has supported 11 projects in electric power, five in petro-
leum (including one gas) and one in coal. In all cases, the objectives were
technology transfer, introduction of modern management practices, and the
development of efficient, large-scale energy production. Through its sector
work and project-related technical assistance, the Bank has assisted in stud-
ies on energy pricing and investment policies, and recently sponsored seminars
on power and coal pricing, coal utilization and energy conservation.
1.28      With Bank assistance, GOC has made good progress in evaluating eco-
nomic costs of electric power and coal, and developing approaches to price
reform. On this basis, in the power subsector, the Bank has sponsored the
formulation of tariff action plans adapted to the needs of individual grids.
For coal, pricing guidelines have been developed for various grades and loca-
tions, but GOC needs to move decisively along these lines, which should be
more feasible now that inflationary pressures have diminished. Plans for a
large increase in administered coal prices are still alive and the Bank will
continue to promote rationalization of coal prices.
1.29      A coal transport study, conducted jointly by the Bank and various
Chinese institutes, developed a model to identify optimal infrastructure
investments, while a coal utilization study evaluated options to improve coal
use and reduce its environmental impact. For the petroleum subsector, semi-
nars organized in China have dealt with gas utilization and subsector manage-
ment. Improving investment planning and operations in the power subsector has



-6-
been an objective of many Bank operations (paras. 2.17 and 2.18), and an
energy conservation study is under way as part of the Bank's sector work,
which will outline options and priorities to address the energy efficiency
issues faced by China in the 1990s. The study is broad in scope, covering
macroeconomic policy and investment issues. This study is intended to provide
a basis for an expanded dialogue with the government on energy efficiency, and
a yet stronger Bank assistance program, in part through further assistance on
energy conservation in the Bank's program for industry.
1.30      Future Bank operations in the energy sector will continue to support
rational and sustainable energy development, technology transfer, price
reform, energy efficiency and conservation, improved environmental management,
improvements in regulatory framework, modern enterprise management, and
greater autonomy and accountability of the sector.



- 7 -
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. Background
2.1       China is the fourth largest electricity producer in the world.  In
1990, installed capacity reached 135 GW, and generation 618 TWh. Thermal
plants (90 percent coal fired) accounted for 74 percent of capacity, and
80 percent of generation, with hydro plants providing the balan-e. Plant use
and transmission losses account for 6.9 percent and 8.0 percent cf generation
which is acceptable but could still be improved. By 1990, the average net
fuel consumption in thermal units had decreased to 428 g of standard coal per
kWh, and MOE's target is to reduce it to 368 g/kWh by the year 2000. Histori-
cal trends for supply and demand of electricity are detailed in Annexes 2.1
and 2.3.
2.2       Electricity generation increased at an average annual rate of
7.5 percent during the 1980s, slower than GDP (8.9 percent), but significantly
faster than total commercial energy consumption (5.0 percent). Industry
accounts for 69.4 percent of electricity consumption, while 17.3 percent is
consumed by agriculture including rural households, 2.0 percent by transport
and communications, and only 11.3 percent by municipal and residential users.
Gross generation per capita in 1990 was about 540 kWh per year, as against
more than 8,000 kWh in OECD countries, and a world average of 2,200 kWh in
1989. Residential and commercial consumption has increased rapidly (14-16 per-
cent per annum) over the last ten years, but is still very low, and will be an
important factor in future demand growth. Some 94 percent of townships and
85 percent of villages are electrified.
2.3       During the 1980s, demand increased faster than generating capacity,
such that in 1988 shortages were estimated at about 20 percent of industrial
demand, imposing a substantial constraint to economic growth. During the
Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90), capacity increased from 87,000 MW to 135,000
KW, exceeding the targeted increase by 37 percent, due to accelerated commis-
sioning of thermal capacity. This rapid expansion, and the economic slowdown
of 1989/90, provided some breathing space in a few regions, including East
China and Fujian, but supplies to existing customers are still strictly
rationed, and new connections are closely screened.
2.4       For the period 1991-95, generating capacity is planned to grow at
about the same rate as the economy. This may prove to be conservative. Even
with concerted efforts in energy conservation and demand management, a faster
growth is conceivable, in view of the planned redeployment of basic industries
and of the rapid growth of the residential component. Power investments will
remain high, considering also the need to allow the retirement of old, small
coal-fired plants, which are less efficient and more polluting.
B. Institutions Planning and Technoloov Tra..sfer
2.5       Institutions.  MOE oversees all strategic aspects of power develop-
ment. Under MOE are six regional power administrations, which coordinate
planning and operation of seven regional grids encompassing 22 provincial or
municipal power bureaus. Eight provincial power bureaus operate in isolation.
A number of research and design institutes, training centers, colleges, and



universities are also affiliated with MOE, as well as 16 construction compa-
nies, mostly involved in power projects.
2.6       Huaneng International Power Development Corporation (HIPDC), under
MOE, was created in 1985 to raise funds, construct, and operate power plants
partly financed by bilateral and supplier's credits, or commercial bank loans.
HIPDC has so far constructed twelve thermal plants including one in Fujian,
location of the proposed project. Corporations, such as the Ertan Hydroelec-
tric Development Corporation, have also been created to develop major hydro-
electric programs. These corporations, sell their production to the grids,
and may reinvest their earnings into future power development.
2.7       The power industry in China employs about 1.5 million people.  Less
than 30 percent have received formal education beyond junior secondary level.
As a result, there is a shortage of trained manpower, notably in technical and
administrative areas. MOE, in conjunction with provincial power bureaus, has
initiated a long-term program to upgrade staff skills at all levels. The
training component of the proposed project will complement this program in
developing human resources to suit the needs of FPEPB (para. 3.9).
2.8       Power System Plannina.  Power system planning is the responsibility
of MOE's Planning Department, which reviews the plans proposed by regional
power administrations and bureaus. Planning and design for thermal power
plants and transmission networks, are carried out by regional electric power
design institutes. For major hydroelectric projects, these tasks are carried
out by central and regional hydropower design institutes.
2.9       Least-cost generation planning techniques for thermal systems were
first introduced through technical assistance from the International Atomic
Energy Agency. Extensions to hydro and mixed systems and network planning
were introduced in Sichuan and East China, under the Planning Support and
Special Studies Project (Credit 1835-CHA). The first Shuikou project financed
studies in transmission planning, and optimal dispatch in mixed systems. The
proposed project includes a program to upgrade the operations of FPEPB's plan-
ning department.
2.10      Modern Technologv Transfer.  To achieve China's ambitious goals for
the power sector, the transfer of appropriate modern technology is crucial.
The Bank is helping to provide such technology, related to large coal-fired
units, including environmental aspects. Technology transfer is also being
provided for large hydroelectric projects, in areas such as construction plan-
ning and management, sophisticated mechanical and electrical systems, and
environmental assessment. The Shuikou power plant, which will be completed
under the proposed project is an important vehicle in this regard.
C. Power Pricing
2.11      Average electricity prices, after remaining practically unchanged
since the early 1970s at less than seven fen/kWh, have increased rapidly since
1985, particularly in 1989/90. The current tariff structure is a complex com-
bination of "old" administered rates, "new" rates for energy generated by new
plants, and surcharges. In addition, customer contributions finance a large
portion of distribution expansion. A key component of recent increases has
been the surcharge, added to the "old" rates, to reflect coal price increases;



-9-
other mark-ups, though less significant, have also been added to reflect, for
example, higher overhaul costs. In many provinces, mark-ups ranged from five
to seven fen/kWh in 1990, following substantial coal price increases in
1989/90. A second key component of recent tariff policy has been the "new
plant, new price" policy. Whereas old plants were financed by state grants,
new plants are largely debt financed, and higher prices are charged for their
energy, to yield adequate funds to cover debt service. These "new" rates, or
guiding prices applied to industrial users for consumption above quota, can
range from 20 to 30 fen/kWh, well above the old rates. Additionally, a sur-
charge of two fen/kWh was introduced in 1988; it is collected from industrial
users, but transferred to Provincial Power Construction Funds.
2.12      As the weight of the "new rates" increases with system expansion,
average rates continue to increase. However, the current tariff system is far
too complicated, and not sufficiently transparent.  Moreover, the adjustment
of "old" rates has not kept pace with cost increases except for coal. These
low rates applying to many customers (and even lower preferential rates apply-
ing to some basic industries) provide little incentive for efficiency improve-
ments, while incremental consumption and new industrial users are charged at a
level which may exceed Long-Run Marginal Cost (LRMC). There are other sub-
stantial distortions, although some progress has been made in recent years.
To provide better incentives for demand regulation, peak/off-peak and seasonal
rates have been introduced, some preferential tariffs have been eliminated,
and recently first steps have been taken in a few regions, towards the unifi-
cation of multi-tier tariffs. However, the use of time-of-day rates should be
expanded, and tariffs should better reflect costs associated to different
demand patterns, to encourage customers to improve their load factors and to
be connected at higher voltage levels.
2.13      MOE and the State Pricing Administration have recently formulated a
policy for the next five years which addresses the issues discussed above; it
is based on five major points: (i) continued increases of tariff level to
improve the sector's internal cash generation; (ii) gradual unification of
rates within each region; (iii) phasing out of preferential tariffs; (iv)
improvement of tariff structure, notably in relation to maximum demand charge;
and (v) extended use of time-of-day rates, and of seasonal rates in hydro
regions. The proposed project includes the implementation of an action plan
to restructure FPEPB's tariff in line with this policy (Annex 3.7).
D. Subsecto? Issues and Strategy
2.14      The major issues facing the Chinese power subsector are:  (i) acute
power shortages; (ii) inadequate power pricing and investment funding; (iii)
protracted implementation periods for large projects; (iv) environmental
impacts of power supply; (v) weak interconnection within regional power Sys-
tems; (vi) scarcity of skilled manpower; and (vii) outdated methods for plan-
ning, operation, and financial management.
2.15      The Government's basic policy is to modernize, expand and increase
the efficiency of the sector, to meet the demands of industrial development
and improve the living standard of the population. This policy translates
into the following strategy: (a) expand coal-fired thermal capacity at mine-
mouths, near ports and load centers to reduce rail transportation, and use
higher grade coal in urban centers; (b) rehabilitate smaller thermal units or



- 10 -
replace them with larger, less polluting, and more efficient plants; (c) acce-
lerate hydroelectric development; (d) increase investments in extra high-volt-
age transmission lines; (e) reform the pricing system; and (f) adopt modern
techniques in planning, design, construction and, environmental impact mitiga-
tion.
E. Role of Bank in the Power Subsector
2.16      The Bank has supported the Government's sectoral strategy through
sector work, policy dialogue, and lending operations, with a particular focus
on institution building, enterprise reform, and the transfer of appropriate
modern technology. The Bank has helped to finance ten large power generation
projects, five thermal and five hydro, and one high-voltage transmission proj-
ect. Through these operations, the Bank has helped to introduce: (i) latest
techniques in generation, transmission and distribution planning, and system
operations and control; (ii) modern equipment for generation, pollution abate-
ment and system control; (iii) new methods of project planning, design, con-
struction management, and environmental assessment; and (iv) improved finan-
cial planning and management practices. Virtually all these topics are
addressed to some extent under the first and proposed second Shuikou projects.
2.17      To support price reform, the Bank financed a first tariff study
under the Beilungang Thermal Power Project (Loan 2706-CHA), which introduced
marginal cost pricing principles which have now gained wide acceptance in
China. Since then, the Bank has continued an active dialogue with GOC on
power pricing. Action plans for tariff restructuring have been formulated, and
financial covenants under Bank projects have helped to improve power price
levels. Through the Second Beilungang Thermal Power Project (Loan 2955-CHA),
the Bank is extending its policy dialogue to deal with reorganization, manage-
ment, and regulation of power bureaus.
2.18      The implementation of most of the ongoing Bank financed projects in
the power sector has been satisfactory, largely on schedule, and within bud-
get. The first power operation, Lubuge Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2382-CHA),
was successfully completed. The second power operation, the 500 kV Xuzhou-
Shanghai Transmission Project (Loan 2493-CHA), was commissioned on schedule.
The Yantan Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2707-CHA) is also progressing satisfac-
torily. Some early problems were encountered in the implementation of the
first Shuikou project (Loan 2775-CHA) (paras. ._3-5.11), but these problems
have been solved. Construction of the Ertan Hyd.oelectric Project (Loan 3387-
CHA) and of Daguangba Multipurpose Project (Loan 3412-CHA and Credit 2305-CHA)
has started successfully. Some of the thermal projects encountered early
delays due to procurement problems and poor coordination among suppliers.
These problems have now been resolved, and construction is almost back on
schedule.
2.19      Lessons learned from the previous power projects in China have been
taken into account in preparing the proposed project. In particular the early
problems encountered in implementation of the first phase project (paras.
5.10-5.11), have been overcome by strengthening project management; increasing
consultant support in critical areas; clearly defining authority and responsi-
bility of owner, engineer and contractor; ensuring adequacy of resettlement
budgets; strengthening environmenta; management and providing for an indepen-
dent evaluation of resettlement.



- 11 -
III. THE BENEFICIARY
3.1       The beneficiary of the proposed loan would be the Fujian Provincial
Electric Power Bureau (FPEPB).
A. Legal Status and Organization
3.2       FPEPB is a state-owned enterprise under the jurisdiction of MOE.  It
is a legal entity with contractual and self accounting responsibilities and
has the mandate for execution, within its jurisdiction, of the national plan
for power generation with associated capital investments. It sells power
directly to final consumers or in bulk, and in conjunction with the provincial
pricing bureau sets sales tariffs and remits taxes to the state. It is also
entrusted, by the Government of Fujian Province (GFP), with supervising the
management of, and issuing technical instructions to, the publicly-owned local
electric power enterprises which are not under the jurisdiction of FPEPB. A
charter for FPEPB has been issued which is acceptable to the Bank.
3.3       FPEPB is headed by a director appointed by MOE.  Under the director
there are four deputy directors, accountable for, respectively: (i) planning
and construction of the local power plants and utilities; (ii) operations and
technical matters; (iii) administration, personnel, training, and finance; and
(iv) political affairs. In addition, the director is assisted by a chief
engineer, chief economist, and chief accountant. Operations are carried out
through units engaged in power generation, transmission, distribution, con-
struction, manufacture and repair, each of which is headed by a chief report-
ina to a deputy director.   The organizational structure of FPEPB is shown in
Annex 3.1.
B. Management
3.4       Within the current institutional framework, whereby the central
government maintains a high degree of control over the power subsector, FPEPB
appears to be well managed. Recent performance indicators are shown in Annex
3.2. During the last five years, average coal consumption of thermal plants
decreased 9 percent, network losses decreased from 8.2 percent to 6.9 percent,
and kWh sales per employee increased by 53 percent. In addition, FPEPB pre-
pares accounting information in a timely manner, maintains effective billing
and collection systems, and has a plan for an integrated management informa-
tion system (paras. 3.29-3.31). However, the ins itutional framework is
becoming less centralized and the bureau is receiving greater financial auto-
nomy and decision-making authority, and needs to prepare itself for these new
responsibilities.
3.5       Traditionally, all major project investments have been financed by
the state government. However GOC has decided that, in future, coastal prov-
inces including Fujian should take primary responsibility for raising funds to
finance all major power investments. To meet this challenge, FPEPB will need
to upgrade its management and financial planning capabilities. Training pro-
grams in these aspects have commenced under the first loan and will be
extended, with new emphases, under the proposed loan.



- 12 -
3.6       FPEPSB is capable of formulating its expansion program and designing
and constructing medium-sized thermal power projects (up to 200 MW) and trans-
mission facilities (110-220 kV). For hydroelectric projects, FPEPB is able to
design medium-size plants (25-250 MW), but construction is usually carried out
by contractors. For the large Shuikou project, all segments of implementation
have been contracted to external parties (paras. 5.7-5.11).
C. Staffing and Training
3.7       At the end of 1990, FPEPB had a total staff of about 18,234, with
279 working at its headquarters in Fuzhou. Except for a core group of key
technical and managerial personnel assigned by MOE, virtually all of FPEPB's
employees are recruited locally. Most are hired on a permanent basis except
for laborers contracted for construction.. Some 4,686 (26 percent) have
received professional training beyond secondary level. Technical staff with
formal university education are centrally trained and assigned to FPEPB at the
rate of about 20 per year. Staffing of FPEPB is shown in Annex 3.3.
3.8       The education division of FPEPB administers three schools for train-
ing of technicians, skilled workers and administrative personnel. For aca-
demic year 1990, about 600 students were enrolled and teaching staff totalled
451. FPEPB's existing training facilities and their expansion plan are summa-
rized in Annex 3.4. According to this plan, FPEPB expects to meet its
recruitment needs for skilled workers and technicians from 1991 onwards.
3.9       A training component will be included in the proposed loan covering
specialized studies associated with the project and a second phase of training
of FPEPB and MOE accounting and financial staff (Annexes 3.9 and 3.5). The
first phase of this program, financed by the first loan, included an overseas
training component which is scheduled to take place in March/April 1992.
D. Planning. Budoetina and Control
3.10      The provincial power bureaus are responsible for developing annual
and five-year production and investment plans which are integrated into the
national plans and approved, through MOE, by SPC. Traditionally, these plans
emphasized quantities of inputs and outputs. Financial planning was confined
to attaching monetary values, predetermined by MOE, to the planned quantities.
While a bureau's plan might be revised to reflect changes in inputs and out-
puts arising from changed or unforeseen circumstances, the plans would not
normally be revised to reflect differences between the planned prices and
those actually paid. Further, under the present financial system in China,
heavy emphasis is placed on the annual budget as a controlling tool and finan-
cial planning beyond one year is generally not undertaken.
3.11      The above planning system functioned satisfactorily in a highly
centralized economy where controlled prices ensured negligible inflation, and
investments were financed almost exclusively by grants. However, as part of
economic reform, prices have escalated, loans have largely replaced grants and
centralized control is being replaced by increased financial autonomy and
decision making authority. In earlier Bank-financed power projects, signifi-
cant steps were taken towards strengthening financial management, focusing on
training in modern techniques of cost control and debt management. This
training was centrally managed by MOE/SEIC so as to promote coordination and



- 13 -
interaction among the various bureaus. A number of training seminars in China
and overseas training were carried out, and the results are positive. Future
training activities will build on these experiences. MOE/SEIC are in the
process of desioning a financial management training program to extend over
the next three years in consultation with the Bank. An outline of the finan-
cial management training program for Bank-financed power bureaus is included
in Annex 3.5. The planning department also needs to upgrade its methodology,
hardware and software notably as regards demand analysis, load forecasting,
load research, and medium-term planning. Part of this will involve the busi-
ness management (commercial) department who will also benefit from load
research programs for tariff analysis. The project includes technical assis-
tance and training for the planning and commercial departments, presented in
Annex 3.9.
3.12      The proposed project would further the Bank's objective of strength-
ening the financial management of the power utilities. An assurance has been
obtained from FPEPB that. by April 30 of each Year. it will continue to fur-
nish to the Bank a rolling lona-term financial plan containino Rroiected
income statements, sources and uses of funds and balance sheets for a period
of eiaht years.
E. Accountina
3.13      As in the case of all state enterprises in China, the power bureaus
follow a unified Chinese accounting system promulgated by MOF in their finan-
cial reporting to the Government. It is based on double-entry bookkeeping and
historical valuation. Accrual basis accounting is used by enterprise and con-
struction units, while government units are on a cash basis. The Chinese
accounting system has been satisfactory in the context of a highly centralized
and closed economy. However, while the recent economic reforms in the country
have resulted in changes in the financial system, corresponding changes in
accounting practices are apparently lagging. For example, present Chinese
practice uses historical rather than prevailing foreign exchange rates in
reporting foreign loans. Hence, the impact of exchange rate fluctuations is
not reflected in the enterprises' financial statements. At the Bank's
request, for projects financed by the Bank, the foreign loans in the financial
statements are accounted by prevailing exchange rates in the annual audit
reports furnished to the Bank.
3.14      Fixed Assets Accountina.   In accordance with Chinese accounting
practices, the power bureaus mainta'n two separate sets of accounts, one set
for capital construction and the other for operation. Since these two sets of
accounts are not consolidated, the balance sheet for operation does not
include construction work-in-progress and the related financing. As in the
case of earlier Bank-financed projects, FPEPB would consolidate the capital
construction account with the operation accounts for the audited financial
statements and rolling financial plans to be furnished to the Bank.
3.15      Revaluation of Fixed Assets.  The Chinese financial system does not
employ the concept of fixed asset revaluation. In the past, asset revaluation
would not have greatly affected FPEPB's financial status because of low infla-
tion over most of the last 40 years and the low foreign content of the
bureau's existing assets. However, with recent inflation, asset revaluation
becomes more important. A pro-forma revaluation was conducted during



- 14 -
appraisal of the proposed project which indicated a reduction in the average
rate of return on assets of about 7.5 percent for the period 1991 through
2000. Since the adoption of a revaluation policy would have impacts beyond
power sector, it will not be addressed solely in the context of the proposed
project. It is a component of the continuing policy dialogue between the Bank
and CnC. MOF's Department of Accounting Affairs Administration is currently
working on the overall framework of concepts for new accounting standards.
The revaluation concept is one of the issues being considered in the exercise.
F. Audit
3.16      As for other Bank-financed projects in China, the Foreign Investment
Audit Bureau of the State Audit Administration (SAA) will have overall respon-
sibil-ity for auditing FPEPB's accounts. Under SAA's supervision, the actual
auditing work will be conducted by the Audit Bureau of Fujian Province. This
arrangement is satisfactory. However, mainly due to the special features of
Chinese accounting, agreement has been reached with SAA that for most Bank-
financed projects, including power operations, tnere would be improved disclo-
sure of accounting policies and supplementary financial information, to pro-
vide an adequate illustration of the financial performance and status of proj-
ects/entities. Technical assistance for SAA and the provincial auditing
bureaus will continue to be financed under IDA credits.
3.17      In November 1985, following the establishment of the Audit Depart-
ment within the former MWREP, an internal audit division within FPEPB was set
up. Staff at each operating unit were also assigned to carry out the internal
audit functions by conducting thorough examinations of all accounts of the
unit, at least annually as per regulations. Their work is subject to review
by the audit division staff through periodic and spot checks, aimed at ensur-
ing accuracy and compliance with MOF regulations.
G. Electricity Tariffs
3.18      The average rate level of FPEPB has increased from 7.3 fen/kWh in
1985 to 8.8 fen/kWh in 1987, and progressed substantially since then, to reach
15.2 fen/kWh in 1990, and an estimated 16.5 fen/kWh for 1991. The 88 percent
increase between 1987 and 1991 is equivalent to 27 percent in real terms, and
the average electricity price in Fujian is now one of the highest in China.
This does not include the effect of the 2.0 fen/kWh surcharge, collected since
1988 from industrial customers, and earmarked to the Provincial Power Con-
struction fund. Financial projections indicate the need for an increase of
only about 16 percent in real terms between 1991 and 1994, to meet financial
covenants. The tariff would then be about 19 fen/kWh in 1991 yuan and would
remain close to that level thereafter, which is close to the estimated long-
run average incremental ccst (Annex 7.1).
3.19      This impressive evolution of the tariff results primarily from the
three-tier system currently applied to industry and bulk sales. The tariff is
based on three prices: an "old" price, a "new" price for energy generated by
FPEPB new plants, and a "Huaneng" price for energy generated by the HIPDC
Fuzhou plant (para. 2.6). The Huaneng price is used for new customers and
incremental consumption beyond 1985, for consumers on the coast and in Fuzhou.
In the interior, a combination of the two new prices is used, while for some
sectors, new consumption is billed exclusively at FPEPB's "new" price. Under



- 15 -
this arrangement, FPEPB acts as a marketing agent for HIPCD by charging a
commission to cover distribution costs and losses and selling Huaneng energy
at a specified price (28 fen/kWh in 1991). As only a small share of revenues
from sales of Huaneng energy accrues to FPEPB, the high overall tariff level
did not reflect on FPEPB's finances.
3.20      Some progress was also made since 1985 on the "old" tariff, due to a
surcharge for coal price increases amounting to 3.3 fen/kWh by end 1991,
applying to most uses except lighting. However, in contrast to the "Huaneng"
price, this surcharge is lower than in many other provinces. FPEPB's revenues
were also enhanced by a reduction of sectors eligible for a preferential "old"
tariff (although these low rates still apply to 14 percent of sales to large
industry), and by a selective application of time-of-day pricing.
3.21      Sales and rates by tariff category for the first quarter of 1991,
are given in annex 3.6. The Huaneng price was 28 fen/kWh (for large industry,
maximum demand charges add another one to two fen/kWh), more than three times
the "old" tariff price, and almost five times the price of about 6 fen/kWh
charged to protected industries. The Huaneng price, based on debt service
requirements over a period which is much shorter than plant life, appears
higher than the estimated economic cost of generation for a thermal system
[about 23 fen/kWh in Fujian at 1991 prices (Annex 7.1)].
3.22      The high price charged to new industries, as compared to neighboring
provinces, might hinder the development of basic industries expected over
coming years to balance Fujian's industrial structure (unless new preferential
treatments are applied), while the low "old" prices (and, more so, the prefer-
ential rates) provide insufficient incentive for efficiency improvements in
older, less energy-efficient industries. Moreover, new rates are based only
on kWh consumption and are the same for all voltage levels of supply. Thus,
high-voltage, high-load-factor users (such as large basic industries) subsi-
dize small, low-voltage industries for which electricity accounts for a
smaller share of production costs. For large industry the demand charge has
become very small in regard to the new energy rates, and incentives for load
factor improvements are minimal.
3.23      The present tariff is extremely complex to manage, inequitable and
hard to understand by customers, does not reflect the structure of supply
costs, and is far from providing optimal incentives for demand regulation. To
address these issues, the proposed project includes an action plan (Annex
3j7), which has been prepared by FPEPB with the support of regulatory author-
ities. During the first phase of this plan, the primary focus will be on
implementation of already prepared measures for the unification of industrial
tariffs, to achieve by end 1993, a single unified tariff, with adequate demand
charges and price differences between voltage levels. This will require,
inter alia, transforming the present marketing arrangement with Huaneng (para.
3.19), into a suitable purchase contract, providing incentives for optimal
dispatch of the plant, while ensuring debt service coverage.
3.24      In parallel, acceptable adjustments will be made to other categories
(commercial, lighting, agriculture, residential) which have so far been
shielded from the effects of higher new plant costs. In particular, the com-
mercial lighting rate, presently the same as for residential uses, will be
adjusted in 1992, to be consistent with other nonresidential rates after uni-



- 16 -
fication of the thrce-tier system. This will eliminate the need for separate
billing ot lighting consumption. The first phase of the action plan is
expected to yield an average revenue by end 1993 of about 21 fen/kWh, close to
estimated financial requirements for 1994.
3.25      During the first phase, a study (Annex 3.8) will be carried out, to
define further measures to be implemented in 1994/95, in order that tariffs
better reflect the structure of economic supply costs, and improve incentives
for demand regulation (notably through time-of-day/seasonal rates); this study
will also address bulk rates and purchase tariffs from independent producers.
Assurances have been obtained from FPEPB. that it will imDlement a plan for
Dower traffic structure imDrovements acceptable to the Bank in a manner satis-
factory to the Bank. including the completion of the first Phase by Decem-
ber 31. 1993.
H. Billing and Collection
3.26      FPEPB's sales by consumer categories are shown in the following
Table 3.1.
Table 3.1:  DISTRIBUTION OF FPEPB'S SALES - 1991
Consumers          Energy Sales       Sales Revenue
Number              (GWh)        %   (Y million)
Lighting                 118,052       88       845        10       136         11
Large Industry             1,805        1     4,272        53       612         50
General Industry La       11,298        8       785        10       138         11
Agriculture                4,234        3       120         1         10         1
Bulk Supply                   40        -     2,074        26       333         27
Total               135,429     100      8.095       100     1.229        100
/a  Includes small industry, commercial and transportation customers.
3.27      FPEPB conducts billing and collection through the sales offices of
its eight power supply bureaus.  All industrial consumers and bulk purchasers
pay in advance, three times per month, based on estimated usage derived from
their production or sales plans.  At the end of the month, meters are read and
adjustments to reflect actual usage included in the first bill for the next
month.  Industrial and commercial customers are all metered individually.  Low
voltage customers are billed monthly based on actual usage. Many households
are metered individually, but some domestic consumption is metered at the
apartment building level with charges recovered from individual residents
through internal billing. Agricultural consumption is generally metered at
FPEPB's lowest voltage step down transformers serving the particular commune;
the commune arranges appropriate distribution of charges among individual
farmers.



- 17 -
3.28      Industrial and commercial consumers and bulk purchasers pay their
bills in advance through direct debit to their bank accounts. Domestic and
agricultural consumers make payments to meter readers or to FPEPB's district
offices, usually within seven days of receipt of their bills. These arrange-
ments have established a reliable cash flow from sales and maintained FPEPB's
accounts receivable from power sales at very low levels, averaging less than
2 percent of annual sales over the past five years.
I. ComDuter Avylications and Information Management
3.29      FPEPB and its subordinate units are currently equipped with both
mainframe and mini computers, and over 300 microprocessors. Computera are
mainly used for: off-line scientific calculation, automatic operation of
hydropower stations, thermal power and transformer stations, management infor-
mation systems, design institute CAD system, and load control system. Chitan
hydropower plant has set up a demonstration supervisory control and data
acquisition (SCADA) system, and Fuzhou and Xiamen power supply bureaus are in
the process of designing similar systems. A SCADA system for control of the
FPG is a component of the proposed project. FPEPB and the eight power supply
bureaus have already computerized most of their data processing functions,
such as financial reporting, material management, personnel record management,
payroll, reliability and safety analysis, and planning.
3.30      The progress of FPEPB's computerization program has been satis-
factory. Eight local area networks (LAN) have already been set up. It is
expected that the networking between FPEPB's headquarter and its subordinate
units will be completed in 1993. The interconnected system between PPEPB and
MOE is currently in planning stage.
3.31      The Fuzhou power supply bureau has completed and put into operation
a pilot load control system with 207 terminals. This system rationalizes the
usage of electricity among customers. The target is to expand this system to
include 1,000 terminals, covering 70 percent of the Fuzhou load. These tar-
gets are expected to be achieved by 1993. The installation of a load control
system is planned for other cities in Fujian over the 1992-96 period.
J. Insurance
3.32      According to a notification jointly issued by MOP, the People's
Insurance Company of Ch'na, the People's Bank of China, and the Agricultural
Bank of China in 1983, all of FPEPB's fixed and current assets are eligible
for commercial insurance coverage. In 1990, about two thirds of FPEPB'a total
assets had insurance coverage and total premium paid was about Y 1.74 million.
The balance was self-insured by FPEPB. So far, it has maintained a sound
liquidity position, which would allow it adequately to self-insure ore third
of its assets against normal level of risk. Main items not insured are con-
struction work-in-progress and main civil works (such as dams).



- 18 -
IV. POWER MARKET AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN
A. Background on the Fujian Province
4.1       Fujian is a coastal province of southeastern China, with a pcpula-
tion of about 30 million. The economy of Fujian has grown extremely rapidly
during recent years, primarily due to the creation of special economic zones
open to foreign investors. Industrial production took off in 1984/85, ini-
tially growing at 25 percent per year, and then at an average of 19.7 percent
per year between 1985 and 19V0. Agriculture also progressed durisig these five
years, although at a more modest 6.3 percent per year, its share in gross
value of agricultural and industrial output (GVIAO) declining from 30 percent
to 19 percent (Annex 4.1).
4.2       On the coast, Xiamen emerged as a major industrial center, well
served by international airlines. The electric railway, now under completion,
should further facilitate communication between the various centers of the
region and offer new opportunities for industrial development. Fujian, showed
relative resilience to the economic slowdown of 1989/90. The influx of direct
investment from outside, notably from Taiwar., China, remained sizeable, and
several major projects are under construction or in preparation, including a
refinery, petrochemical and fertilizer complexes in Mei-Zhou Bay, three steel
mills, a new chemical complex in Fuzhou, and two paper mills. This new empha-
sis an the development of basic industries during the Eighth Five-Year Plan
will help to balance Fujian's industrial structure, marked by a strong devel-
opment of manufacturing industries in recent years. As a consequence, growth
of energy demand is expected to remain strong.
B. Enerav Resources of Fuiian
4.3       Fujian is relatively well endowed with energy resources.  Coal
reserves amount to 976 million tons, of which 480 million tons are exploit-
able. Production was 8.6 million tons in 1988, (or 5.8 million tons of stan-
dard coal), of which 29 percent was consumed by power plants. This coal has a
low sulfur content but a rather poor calorific value, requiring oil to support
combustion in power plants. Mines are not close to main load centers, and
local coal is used primarily in mine-mouth plants. Coal from other provinces
accounted for one third (raw tonnage) of consumption in 1989, and is expected
to account for *nore than half by the late 1990s.
4.4       The Province has no significant oil or natural aas resources.  Cur-
rently, all petroleum products are imported from other regions, but the new
refinery, to be completed in 1992/93, will produce close to two million tons
of gasoline and diesel, and 73,000 tons of kerosene annually, meeting all
provincial requirements for petroleum products.
4.5       The province has a good hydroelectric wotential, and in 1990 hydro
energy accounted for 50 percent of generation on the interconnected grid.
Theoretical potential is 10,460 MW, of which 8,880 MW is exploitable with a
potential energy of 36.6 TWh per year. Only 21 percent of this potential had
been exploited by 1988 (1871 MW for a generation of 6722 GWh). Shuikou (1400
MW) will account for 16 percent. After Shuikou, only three sites of more than
250 MW remain to be developed: Muyangxi (320 MW), Mienhuatan (600 MW), and



- 19 -
Jiemian (400 MW). Some 44 percent of the total potential (3,920 MW), is in 65
mid-size plants (25-250 MW), of which only 11, with capacity totalling 655 MW,
have been exploited; thus further development of mid-size plants is possible,
if they prove to be competitive with coal plants. The balance of the hydro
potential is in sites of less than 25 MW, many of which have been developed to
supply isolated regions; however, their dry-season output is limited.
4.6       Even though the hydro potential of Fujian is substantial, it is only
equivalent, in energy, to the total expected generation requirements of the
year 2000. Thus, from a long-term point of view, hydroelectricity should be
used, to the extent possible, to meet peak and intermediate loads.
C. The Fulian Power Grid (FPG)
4.7       Fujian is not connected to neighboring provinces.  In 1990, the
Fujian Power Grid (FPG) covered 56 counties and municipalities, out of a total
of 65. Some networks still operate in isolation. Demand in isolated systems
increased moderately (6.4 percent per year) since 1985, but its share in the
total decreased from 24 percent to 14 percent in 1990; Jianyang in the north
and Ningde in the east account for about half and are to be connected to the
main grid by 1995.
4.8       FPG, a 220/110 kV grid, connects the plants of FPEPB, the mini-hydro
plants operated by county or municipal power bureaus, and, since 1989, the
plant owned and operated by HIPDC (para. 2.6). Total FPG generation was
11,750 GWh in 1990. FPEPB's own plants produced 52 percent of that energy,
the HIPDC plant accounted for 20 percent, and mini-hydros and industrial
plants for 28 percent. The weight of FPEPB in FPG's power generation has
decreased significantly since 1980, when it was 81 percent; it is expected to
increase markedly with the commissioning of Shuikou. Purchases from mini
hydros and from HIPDC accounted for one third of energy sent out by FPEPB in
1990 (Annex 4.3).
4.9       The 700 MW HIPDC plant is equivalent to 50 percent of FPEPB's own
generation capacity, and is by far the most efficient thermal plant in Fujian.
However, today, due to deficient pricing arrangements, but also due to opera-
tional constraints and to the lower price of local coal, it does not operate
as a base load plant. The pricing arrangements are expected to be reviewed
under the tariff action plan (para. 3.23).
D. Power Demand: Trends and Forecasts
4.10      Electricity demand has grown rapidly, in line with the fast pace of
economic development of the region. Tatle 4.1, below, indicates the past
growth and forecasts of gross value of industrial and agricultural output,
total generation in Fujian, FPG generation and peak demand. Further details
on demand trends and forecasts are given in Annexes 4.1-4.4.
4.11      The impressive growth during the second half of the 1980s provides a
measure of Fujian economic dynamism. There was a slowdown in 1990, due to
economic circumstances, and aggravated by typhoons, and this translated into a
growth of electricity generation of "only" 7 percent for FPG, as against
17 percent during the previous four years. But demand picked up in early 1991
and increased by almost 16 percent during the first semester.



- 20 -
Table 4.1: ECONOMIC GROWTH AND POWER GENERATION IN FUJIAN
TRENDS AND FORECASTS
growth Rateo lnercent/annumr
1980-85      1985-90       1990-95    1995-2000
Ind. & agri. output               12.7          16.2           9.0          8.3
Energy generation Fujian            9.3         12.1          10.0          8.5
Energy generation FPG               8.6         15.0          12.3          8.8
Peak demand FPG                    9.4          14.1          12.3          9.2
Sales FPEPB                        8.4          12.6          13.6          9.9
Elasticity Gener./Output            0.73         0.63          1.11         1.02
4.12      Despite the high demand growth rates of the past 10 years, electric-
ity generation per capita was only 450 kWh in 1990, 83 percent of the national
average. Several large industrial projects have been approved or are under
construction (para. 4.1), and the demand of the electric railway was already
significant in 1991. Although a sustained economic growth at the pace of the
last five years seems improbable, there is still a large potential for high
demand growth. The forecast in Table 4.1 above, based on Fujian's economic
objectives for the Eighth Five-Year Plan, is reasonably prudent, and the pos-
sibility of a higher demand growth cannot be discounted. Even though the
planned growth is significantly lower than the trend in the past five years,
the planned forecast is well above the appraisal forecast for the first
Shuikou loan, as seen in Table 4.2. Incremental generation requirements for
the period 1990-95 are expected to be 60 percent larger than estimated in
Table 4.2: COMPARISON OF LATEST FORECAST FOR FPG WITH THE SHUIKOU I FORECAST
Maximum load               Reaulred oeneration
Actual                         Actual
latest         Forecast        latest          Diff-
Year        Forecast       forecast          (1986)        forecast         erence
-------- (MW)    ----          ---       (GWh) (-)
1985                            963                           5,839
1986           1,080          1,069            6,630          6,901            4.0
1987           1,200          1,228            7,350          7,990            9.0
1988           1,300          1,407            8,000          9,360           17.0
1989           1,410          1,675            8,700         10,982           26.0
1990           1,650          1,860           10,100         11,750           16.0
1995           2,608          3,320           15,960         21,000           32.0
2000                -         5,150                -         32,000
1986. As a result, Shuikou generation will only be equivalent to 53 percent
of that increment as against 84 percent envisaged in 1986. In terms of peak-
ing capacity, Shuikou will be equivalent to the five-year increment of peak
demand, as against the 1986 eetimate of 146 percent of that increment.



- 21 -
4.13      It is clear that there is high uncertainty on electricity demand
growth in Fujian, not only related to economic growth, but also to the rela-
tionship between electricity and industrial production, which can change sig-
nificantly when rapid economic growth is accompanied by substantial structural
changes. In this context, the flexibility of the investment program to cope
with this uncertainty, becomes as important as the accuracy of the forecast.
It seems reasonable, considering also financ.al constraints and preparation
status, to plan hydro plants on the basis of a moderate forecast, and to have
a portfolio of well prepared thermal projects, with well established, easily
mobilizable financing sources.
E. Investment Program
4.14      The first phase of the Shuikou project included a 560 km tie-line to
Hangzhou, linking the Fujian and East China grids. However, exceptional load
growth in the Fujian grid led to a reexamination of its economic viability.
In 1991, Beijing Economic Research Institute for Water Resources and Electric
Power (BERI) carried out a thorough study of the Fujian and East China systems
with and without the tie-line. Their report indicated prima facie, substan-
tial potential benefits from the tie-line but only about 30 percent of thene
benefits arising from absorption of available hydro capacity from Shuikou and
subsequent hydro schemes. Most benefits arose from delay of new thermal plant,
because of reserve capacity sharing, and a theoretical reduction in reserve
capacity because of noncoincidence of peak loads of the two systems.
4.15      However further examination of the latter benefits indicated a prob-
able overestimation. Firstly, increased reliability was valued in the study
by a theoretical reduction in coal plant capacity; gas turbine plant or pumped
storage plant would be a more appropriate proxy, and if this were assumed then
reserve capacity benefits would be halved. Secondly, the FPEPB, as the poten-
tial investor in the tie-line doubted that there would really be an increase
in reliability of their own system, by connection to East China, since while
both systems fall short of ideal reserve capacity requirements, the East China
system is historically less reliable than the Fujian system, and this situa-
tion may continue during the planning period.
4.16      There is also considerable doubt whether peak levelling benefits can
be achieved in practice, and to whom these benefits would accrue. The nonco-
incidence of peaks is random and not reliably predictable in the case of
Fujian and East China and theoretical transfers may not materialize, consider-
ing the two systems do not have unified despatch arrangements, and a situation
of general shortage in both systems.
4.17      Taking the above factors into account, the estimated benefit/cost
ratio reduced to 0.75 and, under a higher growth scenario, to 0.64. FPEPB'o
position, which was endorsed by BERI, MOE and other central government agen-
cies, was that with economic growth rates tending to exceed planned targets,
an environment of relative shortage could persist throughout the decade, such
that the risks of the tie-line investment are too great. In this context MOE
noted, that although interconnection of iolated systems is part of their
overall stra'egy for development of the power sector, energy transfers over
major tie-lines so far constructed have fallen well short of expectations. It
was therefore decided to postpone the tie-line, but to configure the Shuikou
switchyard to allow future interconnection, when the supply demand balance



- 22 -
stabilizes. The Bank recognized the concerns expressed, and agreed to delete
the tie line from the project scope.
4.18      FPEPB's investment program is summarized in Table 4.3 below.
Table 4.3: INVESTMENT PROGRAM FOR THE FUJIAN
PROVINCE GRID
Project              Capacity (MW)  Commissioning Year
1. Hydro
Shuikou              1,400 (7x200)         1993-95
Muyangqi Cascade       320 (2x125)         1996-97
(+2x35)
Mienhuatian            600 (4x150)         2000-01
2.   Thermal
Xiamen Shongyu       1,200 (4x300)         1994-97
Huaneng II             700 (2x350)         1998-99
Meizhouwan             600 (2x300)         2000-01
Zhangping II           200 (2x100)         2000-01
4.19      The tie-line study drew attention to the persistence of a strong
seasonality of Fujian hydro power in the long term. The main implications are
that a significant proportion of coal fired thermal plants will be effectively
on standby. FPEPB therefore agreed to include in the project scope, a reeval-
uation of the Fujian Province hydro inventory, focusing on identifying schemes
which could provide seasonal energy storage to the Fujian system.   Also the
possible role of gas turbines as reserve for extreme situations is worth
exploring. Assurances have been obtained that FPEPB will carry out this hydro
inventory reevaluation, with timin., specialist assistance and terms of refer-
ence satisfactory to the Bank.



- 23 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Background and Objectives
5.1       Proiect Backaround.  The Shuikou Hydroelectric Scheme is located on
the Min River, about 84 km upstream of Fuzhou, the capital of Fujian Province.
The Bank Board approved the first loan for the Shuikou Hydroelectric Project
in January 1987. The loan amount of $140 million, requested by GOC, was rela-
tively low in comparison to the estimated foreign and total costs of $547.3
million and $1,087.8 million. The first loan was earmarked for financing of
the first four years of construction, and in consideration of the monolithic
nature of this large project with an eight-year construction period, it was
understood that the Bank would consider a request for a second loan for the
remaining period of the project. Nevertheless, GOC agreed to provide finan-
cing for the entire project, irrespective of the Bank's provision of a second
loan.
5.2       Proiect Objectives.  The principal objectives of the first-phase
project were to:
(a) develop a major hydro site to meet the growing energy requirements
of the Fujian and East China grids;
(b)  employ the most modern technology available for speedy construction;
(c)  link the East China and Fujian grids;
(d)  promote more effective 'ntegrated operation of mixed hydro thermal
systems;
(e)  provide training in management of international contracts for large
civil works and in financial management of power utilities; and
(f)  enhance environmental and resettlement policies.
5.3       The objectives of the proposed project include the above, except
that MOE and FPEPB have decided not to construct the tie-line at this stage.
Improving power pricing arrangements in the province has also been included as
one of the objectives for the proposed project.
B. Proiect Description
5.4       The proposed project would first provide for the completion of the
Shuikou Hydroelectric Scheme, all the components of which were covered under
the first loan. These are detailed in Annex 5.1 and summarized below:
(a)  construction of a 101 m high concrete gra'ity dam, with associated
spillway, powerhouse, navigation facilities;
(b)  switchyard and transmission to connect the project to the FPG.
(c)  supply and installation of seven 200 MW generating sets and asso-
ciated electrical and mechanical equipment; and



- 24 -
(d) environmental management and resettlement of some 67,000 people.
The project would also include:
(a) construction of a supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)
system for the Fujian Province Grid;
(b) continuation of consultancy services for design, procurement and
construction management for the Shuikou development and for the
SCADA system;
(c) completion of system planning and operation studies commenced under
the first project, and a new study to reevaluate the hydro-inventory
of Fujian province (para. 4.15);
(d) implementation of an action plan for tariff reform (para. 3.23); and
(e) provision of technical assistance and training programs in finan-
cial management, planning, commercial and financial management, and
project-related technology and management.
5.5       The proposed navigation facilities have been upgraded in that FPEPB
are now proposing to construct a three flight shiplock plus a shiplift, the
shiplift replacing the raft lift originally proposed. The feasibility study
for the SCADA system was financed under the first loan. Bid documents are
scheduled to be completed by December 1992.
5.6       With the deletion of the tie-line, reinforcement of the Fujian
220 kV transmission system is required, beyond the direct connection to the
grid included in the project scope. The grid expansion has been designed and
scheduled with the assistance of transmission planning software and technical
assistance provided under the first project. FPEPB has secured financing for
the expansion program from SEIC. Assurances have been obtained from FPEPB
that the transmission expansion program will be carried out in accordance with
a schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Proiect Implementation and Operation
5.7       Engineering.  Since its inception, design of the development has
been carried out by East China Investigation and Design Institute (ECIDI).
Throughout the first phase ECIDI was assisted by Morrison Knudsen Engineers
(MKE) of San Francisco, in design review, specialist advice, ICB contracts and
design management. Up until end-1991, MKE had provided some 264 staff-months
of services for design and construction management. Design management systems
have been notably effective enabling ECIDI to produce over 4,000 drawings by
the end of 1991, meeting the requirements of the construction schedule. MKE
advice will continue into the second phase, in relation to shiplift design and
procurement, dam instrumentation and any other areas where the need for spe-
cialist assistance is identified. In addition, a Special Board of Consultants
(SBC) was appointed and has so far met on eight occasions at critical stages
of design and construction. Specialists are added to the Board as required to
deal with current critical issues including environmental and resettlement
issues.



- 25 -
5.8       A special organization, Shuikou Hydroelectric Project Construction
Corporation (SHPC) was set up to act as the "engineer" for construction super-
vision. MKE also provides assistance to SHPC in supervision and contract and
project management. Initially, SHPC was not very effective in project manage-
ment, which was attributed to: (a) inadequate quality and quantity of staff;
(b) insufficient autonomy; and (c) inadequate authority, despite a charter
indicating to the contrary. Bank supervision missions stressed the need to
strengthen SHPC, and for MOE to exert its influence on the contractor, to
ensure cooperation with and compliance with SHPC instructions. These measures
led to considerably increased effectiveness of SHPC, such that it now effi-
ciently supervises construction, deals with contractors claims and takes the
lead in scheduling initiatives (para. 5.11). The current organization chart
for SHPC is shown in Annex 5.2. Consultant support will continue into the
second phase in the areas of concrete construction, shiplift and other equip-
went erection, contract and claim management, cost and quality control, and
any other area where specialist assistance is required.
5.9       Construction.  After ICB, the main civil contract was awarded to The
Fujian Hua Tian Construction Joint Venture, involving Maeda Corporation of
Japan and three Chinese partners. The bid was the lowest by a considerable
margin, but after extensive clarifications and deliberations, the Engineer
judged the construction method to be reliable, and the bid to represent the
lowest evaluated price. The Bank indicated no objection to the evaluation and
award. The construction echedule (Annex 5.3) provided for commencement in
January 1987, commissioning of the first unit after 6% years (June 1993) with
the six subsequent units commissioned at four month intervals. There were
three critical intermediate dates related to the river diversion arrangements,
in October 1989, October 1991 and April 1992. In addition, there was a criti-
cal date for handover to the powerhouse erection contractor in December 1991.
The schedule is demanding, even by the standards of an experienced interna-
tional contractor. About 18 months into the construction period, it became
evident that the contractor could not achieve the required progress with
existing equipment on which his bid was largely based, and substantial addi-
tional purchases of new construction equipment would be required. Discussions
between the parties to the contract resulted in proposals for contractual
reorganization, with a Chinese partner taking over management responsibilities
from the Japanese partner, an increase in advance payment fronm 15 percent to
25 percent with repayment over a longer period, and increase in foreign
exchange proportion from 48.4 percent to 65 percent. The Bank agreed to these
contract amendments, and MOE supported the effort by transferring experienced
construction groups to the region to act as subcontractors. As a result of
these measures progress improved considerably.
5.10      A review carried out by FPEPB in February 1989, while indicating
that the first key diversion date could be met, revealed that progress in
later stages would again be affected by lack of equipment. The Bank was
therefore requested to finance the purchase of construction equipment by the
Owner, which would be hired to the Contractor. The Bank declined, taking the
position that equipment finance was the responsibility of the equity partners.
As expected, the Contractor met the critical date for river diversion in Octo-
ber 1989, but by this time concrete preparation activities critical to second
stage diversion were estimated to be some six months behind schedule. The
Bank and MOE considered that it was possible to recover from the delays, pro-
vided plans could be devised to simplify construction and enable some concret-



- 26 -
ing to be carried over from the second to the third diversion stage. ECIDI
investigated design changes, and SHPC took the lead in computerized scheduling
studies, resulting in a revised master schedule with diversion schedule
adjustments, but with the overall completion date maintained. By April 1,
1992, all critical diversion dates had been met and the first powerhouse bay
has been handed over to the erection contractor. It therefore appears that
the project will be completed on schedule.
5.11      operation.  Procedures for inspecting, maintaining and monitoring
high dams in China generally follow international practices and are considered
appropriate to the proposed project. Neverthelcss, assurances have been
obtained from FPEPB that it will (a) Rreoare. Prior to comoletion of the dam.
a Proaram of annual maintenance of the proiect works, which is satisfactory to
the Bank. (b) undertake periodic inspections of the dam and associated works
usina indevendent experts whose cualifications and exnerience are accentable
to the Bank, and (c) implement their recommendations.
D. Resettlement and Environment Aspects
5.12      Resettlement.  With a total reservoir length of 96 km and a water
surface area of 93.5 km2, the Shuikou reservoir will inundate about 2,000 ha
of farmland, 1300 ha of forest, 700 ha of reclaimed and cultivated wasteland,
137,000 fruit trees and about 20,000 dwellings, housing 67,000 people. The
resettlement plan, conforming to Bank guidelines, and implementation experi-
en? to date is described in Annex 5.4 and summarized in the following para-
-*.1i     The resettlement was planned within the framework of policy guide-
lines laid down by the State Council, which provided for:
(a) the social and economic reestablishment of affected communities with
living standards not lowered and preferably raised;
(b)  resettlement within the same county and preferably township;
(c) resumption of original employment, or training for alternative;
(d) realistic compensation levels; and
(e) reconstruction of public facilities.
5.14      Resettlement activities began in parallel with the construction of
the dam. However, after two years it became evident that, because of startup
delays and a budget eroded by inflation, it would be difficult to meet the
first resettlement target of 32,000 people by March 31, 1990, as required for
the second stage river diversion. FPEPB therefore modified the initial target
to cover the population at risk from a 1- in 10-year flood, and derived con-
tingency plans for larger floods. MOE and SEIC approved an increased reset-
tlement budget to offset inflation, and the Bank agreed to a reallocation of
$10 million of the loan to finance materials for resettlement. As a result,
the reduced initial target was met and resettlement was generally back on
schedule by end-1990. The second target, dictated by Stage III diversion,
resettlement of 55,000 people by the April 1992 flood season, has also been



- 27 -
met. Reestablishment of production systems was also delayed for the same
reasons as outlined above, but is now back on schedule.
5.15      The Bank staff carried out full reviews of the resettlement process
in April 1991, and July 1991. In both cases, the mission's aasessment of
resettlement already completed was very positive, but both missions expressed
reservations concerning two matters: (a) the approach to monitoring and
reporting of physical progress; and (b) the possibility of individual hardship
because of the time lag between reservoir impoundment and new production sys-
tems (e.g., fruit trees, fishing) reaching full production. It was noted that
the sense of well being of currant resettlers was partly due to the fact that
they were still generating income from their resumed land. As the date for
reservoir impoundment draws near, the first reservation appears to have been
overtaken by events, in that it seems highly likely that physical resettlement
activities will be completed on schedule by the end of 1992. However, the
lessons learned at Shuikou have been taken into account in later Bank-financed
projects, such as the Ertan Hydroelectric Project (Loan 3387-CHA) where a more
rigorous monitoring system was agreed.
5.16      Since physical resettlement activities were nearing completion, the
Bank decided to shift the emphasis of monitoring to end results of the reset-
tlement effort, rather than physical works. It was agreed that the previously
planned IndeDendent Evaluation of Resettlement (IER), would be designed to
provide timely warning to Government authorities of problems in reestablish-
ment of income or general welfare. The IER will be based on a sampling method
with a coverage of 15 to 20 percent of resettlers. Indicators monitored will
provide an assessment of:  social and economic living standard, public health,
opportunities for women and welfare of various occupations (aimed at identify-
ing particular groups requiring assistance). The contract for the IER was
awarded to ECIDI and signed in December 1991. The evaluation will extend over
the period 1992 to 1996. In 1992 and 1993, reports will be submitted in July
and December, and thereafter in December of each year. The proposed project
would increase the opportunity for the Bank to supervise the resettlement
effort throughout the transition period. Supervision will concentrate on
upgrading the institutional capacity of the organizations responsible for man-
aging and monitoring resettlement activities, and on monitoring the reestab-
lishment of income and welfare of resettlers. Assurances have been obtained
from the Borrower and FPEPB that they will continue to carry out or cause to
be carried out a resettlement vroaram satisfactory to the Bank.
5.17      Beyond the project implementation period, the Government will con-
tinue its financial support to help resettlers fully reestablish their stan-
dard of living. Main funding sources will be two funds established under
central government regulations (the Reservoir Area Fund and the Reservoir
Development Fund), specifically intended for this purpose. Assurances have
been obtained that the Borrower will monitor the relorts of the IER. take
action to accelerate the reestablishment of income and welfare in identified
Droblem areas. and make funds available to sustain incomes at acceotable
levels until they are fully restored.
5.18      The Bank is satisfied that the planning and implementation to data
is being carried out in accordance with Bank policy guidelines. Provided the
production development period is well handled, it is very likely that the
resettlement program will achieve its primary objective of being a positive



- 28 -
experience for those directly affected. Others in the region are also bene-
fiting from the expenditure locally of some $300 million including $200 mil-
lion for resettlement. The contention that power plants benefit distant
users, at the expense of local inhabitants does not apply to Shuikou.
5.19      Environment.  In addition to the social impacts of resttlement dealt
with above, physical impacts, potentially favorable and unfavorable, are sum-
marized below and discussed in Annex 5.5, together with the Environmental Man-
aement Plan (EMP), conforming to Bank policy guidelines, aimed at enhancing
favorable impacts, and mitigating unfavorable impacts. Assurances have been
obtained that the Borrower and FPEPB will carry out the EMP in a manner satis-
factory to the Bank.
5.20      The project will avoid thermal generation, involving burning of
1.6 million tons of standard coal/year, land use for thermal plant of 1000 ha
and for mining of 300 ha/year, gaseous and particle emissions of 65,000 tons/
year, solid waste of 500,000 tons/year, and water usage of 125,000 tons/year.
5.21      Long-term impacts on naviaation are very favorable.  Creation of the
reservoir and increase of downstream minimum flows will enable 500 ton ships
to navigate the 220 km reach from the ocean to Nanping city. Navigation
facilities in the dam have been designed to accommodate major increases in
river traffic (para. 5.5). Measures have been implemented to mitigate short-
term disruptions to navigation during dam construction.
5.22      Net effects on fisheries will also be positive.  The river section
upstream of the damsite affected by the reservoir, currently contains only a
few species and fish catches are nominal. There are no fish species with
major migrations through the damaite. Investigations carried out since
Shuikou I appraisal indicate that the project will have no significant effect
on eel production in the province, and there is no need for transport of eel
fry upstream. On the other hand, fish production from the reservoir and from
intensive fish farming around its periphery is expected to be substantial with
yields projected at 655 tons/year.
5.23      Negative effects on water aualitv usually associated with large
reservoirs, such as eutrophication, anoxic and low temperature discharges, and
sediment and nutrient trapping, are not expected to be significant at Shuikou,
since the reservoir volume is small in relation to river flow, and a high rate
of flushing exists. In fact, the project will have a positive effect on down-
stream agriculture and fisheries, since minimum dry season flows will be
increased, reducing salt water intrusion into the estuary. However, the EMP
addresses three water quality issues: (a) control of municipal and industrial
wastes discharging into the reservoir; (b) the development of a mathematical
model of the assimilative capacity of the reservoir, to establish parameters
for regulation of waste discharges into the river; and (c) the relocation of
one intake for Nanping water supply clear of the reservoir impoundment area.
5.24      No adverse sediment related effects are expected.  Sediment runoff,
trap efficiency and resulting depositions are low, such that projected dead
storage life is at least 500 yeare, and no significant downstream erosion is
expected. Bedload deposition at the head of the reservoir will be monitored
to warn of any backwater effects impacting flood control of Nanping City.



- 29 -
5.25      There are no significant effects on f1oodina.  Large floods will be
slightly attenuated below the reservoir. The reservoir will be operated at a
lower level during the flood season, and the floodway through the Nanping
footbridge will be widened, both to prevent any deterioration in flooding con-
ditions in Nanping city.
5.26      No adverse health effects are expected. Local authorities have con-
cluded that the project will not lead to the spread of water related diseases,
while improved water supply, sanitary facilities and medical facilities in
construction camps and resettlement areas are expected to result in a net
improvement in community health. The IER will monitor this aspect.
5.27      In construction and resettlement areas quarry, spoil and work areas
have been designed to minimize encroachment on agricultural land and the
river. Living quarters for the 3,500 person work force are of good quality,
and associated facilities are of high standard. Comprehensive programs to
control soil erosion in the newly created resettlement areas are underway.
5.28      Monitorina of physical progress of resettlement is carried out by
the Shuikou Reservoir Resettlement Office (SRRO). Social and welfare aspects
of the resettlement will be monitored as part of the IER. The FPEPB, which
has a specialist environmental unit, will monitor reservoir water quality and
sediment deposition. Other monitoring will be carried out by the appropriate
provincial and county authorities as part of their routine responsibilities.
In addition environmental and resettlement specialists are periodically added
to the SBC (para 5.7).
5.29      Overall, the net effect on the environment appears to be positive.
E. Proiect Cost
5.30      An updated cost estimate for the original project scope, excluding
the tie-line to East China, indicates an overall project cost of $658 million.
This compares with the original appraisal estimate for the came work of $733
million, with large increase in resettlement costs being more than compensated
by low contract prices for civil and equipment costs. With upgrading of navi-
gational facilities and additional scope referred to in para. 5.5, the total
project cost is estimated at $696 million, of which $239 million are foreign
costs. Details are included in Annex 5.6.
5.31      The estimated cost of the proposed project, covering expenditures
beyond the disbursement of the first loan until completion of construction is
$245.3 million, of which $100.0 million will be foreign costs. Details are
included in Annex 5.6 and summarized in Table 5.1. The first loan is expected
to be fully disbursed in the second quarter of FY93.
5.32      Cost estimates are based on actual expenditures up until 1991, with
base costs beyond 1991 at early 1992 cost levels. Physical contingencies have
been applied to costs beyond 1991 at the following rates: 10 percent for
civil contract, 20 percent for the shiplift which is at preliminary design
stage, five or seven percent for other equipment depending on whether bids
have been received. Price contingencies have been applied to expenditures
beyond 1991 at global foreign and local inflation rates, except for fixed
price supply contracts. Annual inflation rates assumed are 3.9 percent for



- 30 -
Table 5.1: COST ESTIMATE
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  as % of
---- (Y million) ----  ----( million) ----   total
Preparatory works          57.0        -     57.0   10.5        -    10.5
Resettlement              127.0        -    127.0   23.4        -    23.4         -
Civil works               132.2   245.6    377.8   24.3    45.3    69.6    65.0
Metal works                46.0    63.8    109.8    8.5    11.7    20.2    58.0
Elec. and mech.
equipment              256.8   145.0    401.8   47.3    26.7    74.0    36.0
Engineering and
const'n supervfn         54.4    19.1      73.5   10.0      3.5    13.5    26.0
Administration             29.8        -     29.8    5.5        -      5.5        -
Tech. assist. and
training                  1.0     8.5       9.5    0.2      1.5      1.7    90.0
Total base coat    704.2   482.0  1.186.2  129.7    88.7   218.4    41.0
Physical contingencies   48.9    38.6        87.5    9.0      7.1    16.1    44.0
Price contingencies        58.0    39.4      97.4    6.6      4.2    10.8    39.0
Total proiect
cost              811.1   560.0  1,371.1  145.3   100.0   245.3    4.C
Interest during
construction           272.0   139.6    411.6   50.0    25.7    75.7    34.0
Total financinQ
reauired        1,083.1   699.6  1,782.7  195.3   125.7   321.0    39.2
foreign costs, and for local costs, 6.0 percent in 1992 and 5.0 percent there-
after.
F. Financing Plan
5.33      The financing plan for the overall development and the proposed
project is as follows:



- 31 -
Table 5.2:  FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Local      Foreign       Total
IBRD                          -         100.0      100.0
Local loans (SEIC)        195.3          25.7      221.0
Total                195.3        125.7       321.0
5.34      The proposed Bank loan of $100 million equivalent would meet about
45 percent of the total cost of the project incurred, over the period November
1992 to completion at the end of 1995. It would be used to finance expendi-
tures during this period for:
(a) the ICB main civil works contract;
(b)  ICE contracts for the fIcst tWo generating units, metalworks, gener-
ator circuit breakers, powerhouse control system, grid SCADA system,
foreign supplied materials and equipment for shiplift; and
(c) consultancy services, studies and overseas training.
5.35      Financing provided by SEIC will be used to finance all local costs
and interest during construction on the Bank loan. The SEIC loan will carry
an average interest rate of 5.04 percent and a maturity of ten years beyond
project commissioning.
5.36      The Bank loan would be made to the People's Republic of China at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate for a 20-year term including five years
of grace, with level principal repayments. Assurances have been obtained that
GOC will anlend the Droceeds of the Bank loan to FPEPB under a subsidiary loan
aareement with a 20-year term including five years arace at the Bank's stan-
dard variable interest rate. FPEPB will bear the commitment charoes and for-
eian exchanae risk. A Proiect Agreement will be concluded between the Bank
and FPEPB. Execution of the subsidiary loan aareement satisfactory to the
Bank and alproval of the Loan Agreement by State Council would be conditions
of loan effectiveness.
G. Procurement
5.37      Procurement arrangements for the proposed project are summarized in
Table 5.3 and detailed in Annex 5.7. Bank financed contracts for goods and
works have been, or will be, awarded through ICB in accordance with Bank
Guidelines except that items, or groups of items estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $2 mil-
lion, may be purchased on the basis of at least three quotations from quali-
fied suppliers eligible under the Bank's procurement guidelines. Goods manu-
factured in China would be eligible for a 15 percent preference in bid evalua-
tion or import duties, whichever is the lower. Prior review would apply to
all contracts with a value greater than $200,000 (about 96 percent of the



- 32 -
Table 5.3: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million equivalent)
Total
Second
Procurement Method                   ICB     Other La      NBF Lb        ProjectLc
1.1  Civil works                    79.3      -            11.8             91.1
(50.3)                                  (50.3)
2.   Goods
2.1  Mechanical               13.2       1.0         23.7             37.9
equipment               (13.2)    (1.0)                         (14.2)
2.2  Electrical               28.6       1.0         37.4             67.0
equipment               (28.6)    (1.0)                         (29.6)
3. Consultancies
3.1  Engineering and                     4.1         11.9             16.0
supervision                        (4.1)                         (4.1)
3.2  Studies, technical                  1.8                           1.8
assistance and
training                           (1.8)                         (1.8)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1  Resettlement                                    25.0             25.0
4.2  Administration                                    6.5             6.5
Total                        121.1       7.9         116.3           245.3
'92.11    (7.91                        1100.01
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan.
La Shopping and Consulting Services.
Lb NBF: Non-Bank fia.4nced.
I_ Including physical and price contingencies.
loan). Other contracts would be subject to selective post award review. Con-
sultants have been or will be selected following the Bank's Guidelines for Use
of Consultants. The procurement procedures for non-Bank financed components
(financed by SEIC and sourced in China) will not significantly affect the
satisfactory execution of the project in terms of cost, quality or completion
time.
5.38      All contracts proposed to be financed by the Bank were commenced
under the first loan, except for the ship-lift, the grid SCADA system, and
technical assistance for tariff studies.  The major civil works contract is
being carried out by the Fujian Hua Tian Construction Joint Venture, involving
Maeda Corporation of Japan and three Chinese partners. The contract for two
turbines and generators being financed by the Bank is being carried out by a
joint venture of C. Itoh of Japan (agent for Hitachi Ltd.) and China Interna-
tional Trust and Investment Corporation (CITIC, agent for Harbin Electric



- 33 -
Machinery Works of China). All other ongoing Bank financed contracts have
been awarded to foreign suppliers. Similarly, new Bank financed contracts
will probably be awarded to foreign suppliers, since it is unlikely that
Chinese manufacturers will qualify.
5.39      Procurement under the first phase project is proceeding smoothly,
using the standard bidding documents developed jointly by the Bank and GOC.
Procurement is the responsibility of the International Tendering Company of
China who are now well experienced in ICB, ECIDI, and the consultants, who
review documents and evaluations for ICB works. Similar arrangements will
apply for the proposed project.
H. Disbursements
5.40      The Bank loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 100 percent of for-
eign expenditures for the main civil works; (b) 100 percent of foreign expen-
ditures of directly imported equipment and materials, 100 percent of local
expenditures, ex-factory of locally manufactured items, and 75 percent of
local expenditures for other items procured locally; and (c) 100 percent of
the cost of consulting services and overseas training. For expenditures
relating to training and contracts for goods and works each valued at less
than $200,000 equivalent, reimbursements would be made on the basis of State-
ments of Expenditure (SOEs). Documentation supporting the SOEs would be
retained by FPEPB and made available for review by Bank supervision missions.
To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account in US dollars, with an autho-
rized allocation of $5 million would be established in a bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Applications for replenishment would be
submitted monthly or when amounts withdrawn are equal to 50 percent of the
initial deposit, whichever occurs sooner. Retroactive financing in aggregate
amount of $5 million, would be provided under the loan for expenditures which
may be incurred before the signing date of the loan but after December 31,
1991.
5.41      The disbursement schedule for the proposed loan is given in Annex
5.8, together with the standard disbursement profile for all Bank-financed
projects in China. Because the proposed loan covers the second phase of an
ongoing pro3ect, where most contracts are already underway, the disbursement
profile is not typical. Cumulative disbursements are typical of the second
half of a normal S-curve. The project will be completed on December 31, 1995,
and the closing date will be December 31, 1996.
I. Monitorino and ReDorting
5.42      Satisfactory procedures for monitoring and reporting are in place
for the first phase project and will continue for the current project. These
include brief monthly progress reports and comprehensive quarterly reports.



- 34 -
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Introduction
6.1       FPEPB, as in the case of most power bureaus in China, follows MOF
financial regulations applying generally to state enterprises, and specific
MOE procedures for power bureaus based on MOF regulations. Under this highly
centralized system (Annex 6.1), FPEPB's operational and investment budgets
require government approval, its tariffs are controlled and virtually all its
surpluses are remitted to GOC. GOC, for its part, provides all investment
funds for approved projects. Historically, such funds were provided on a
grant basis, until in the early 1980s this changed to 100 percent debt finan-
cing, initially at subsidized rates, and now at commercial rates for new
investments. Within this framework, FPEPB has managed its finances satisfac-
torily.
6.2       More recently, GOC has indicated that it will phase out its loans to
FPEPB for new power project investments, on the grounds that Fujian Province,
a coastal province attractive to foreign financiers, is in a strong position
to raise its own funds. This follows the independent financing and develop-
ment of the Fuzhou thermal plant by HIPDC, and is in line with recent trends
to establish separate corporations for developing new power projects, espe-
cially hydro schemes. Unlike power bureaus, these entities are allowed to
retain and reinvest profits into new developments, and thus have more incen-
tives to increase their efficiency. As a result of GOC directive, FPEPB is
actively exploring alternative financing sources for its new projects.
6.3       As part of the ongoing economic reforms, GOC is reassessing the
present fiscal system, with particular focus on tax reform issues and option.
Since details of such reforms are still being formulated, there is consider-
able uncertainty concerning the specific parameters affecting FPEPB's future
finances. However, in keeping with the spirit of the Enterprise Law, economic
reform measures would be directed at enhancing the commercial orientation of
the state enterprises. Reforms over the past five years have led to improved
electricity pricing, a noticeable loosening in central control and increased
financial autonomy.
6.4       One of GOC's sectoral objectives is to strengthen enterprise finan-
cial management so that power bureaus can perform their increased financial
role efficiently and effectively. To support this objective, the proposed
project would continue the process of institution building initiated under the
first loan, including: (i) the extension of FPEPB's financial planning hori-
zon (para. 3.12); (ii) management training for FPEPB (para. 3.9); and (iii)
agreements with FPEPB on financial performance targets which would provide a
framework for financial discipline (para. 6.8).
B. Past and Present Financial Performance
6.5       FPEPB's income statements and balance sheets for the period 1986-90
are set out in Annex 6.2, and summarized in Table 6.1, below.
6.6       During the period 1986-90, FPEPB consistently reported modest prof-
its. In 1988 its operating income and rate of return dramatically increased



- 35 -
Table 6.1: FPEPB'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1986-90
(Y million)
Growth Rate
% p.a.
Year ended December 31              1986   1987   1988   1989   1990  (1986-90)
Electricity sales(GWh)             5,000  5,690  6,631  7,817  8,095    12.8
Average revenues (fen/kWh)           7.6    8.8   10.3   13.3   15.2    18.9
Operating revenues                   382    498    683  1,037  1,228    33.9
Operating income /a                   58     83    166      78    105    16.0
Net Income                            30     60    112      56     86    30.1
Net fixed assets in operation        921  1,194  1,505  1,803  2,053    22.2
Capital expenditure                  788    536    560    862    847       1.8
Operating ratio (%)                   85     83      76     92   90.5
Rate of return (%) Lb                6.3    7.8   12.5    4.8    5.8
Debt service coverage (times)        6.8    1.7    1.8    1.4    2.5
Current ratio                        2.0    2.2    2.6    2.0    1.8
Debt as % of debt & equity          54.8   61.4   65.9   69.7   66.7
/a Operating revenues less the aggregate of fuel, power purchases, adminis-
tration, operation and maintenance, and depreciation.
lb Based on historically valued average net fixed assets in operation.
from 1987 levels due to a higher proportion of hydro generation, (42 percent
vs 34 percent). In 1989 and 1990, the two indicators reverted to lower levels
as the thermal proportion, fuel cost, and, particularly, power purchase price
rose significantly. In 1990, FPEPB paid Y 599 million for purchased power
mainly from HIPDC, compared with Y 53 million in 1988.
6.7       Over the same five-year period, FPEPB's sales grew by about 62 per-
cent in total (13 percent/annum), while operating revenues increased by about
221 percent, due to a doubling of average revenue from 7.6 fen/kWh in 1986 to
15.2 fen/kWh in 1990. Despite this increase, the operating ratio deteriorated
from about 85 percent to about 91 percent, indicating that an overall high
tariff largely resulted from high Huaneng price did not match up to the high
cost incurred for the power supplied by Huaneng (para. 3.19). To meet pro-
jected cost increases and remain financially viable, FPEPB will need to
increase its tariff by about 6 percent a year in current terms over the period
1992-2000.
C. Financial Performance Taroets
6.8       Traditional indicators (such as rate of return and self-financing
ratio) have had limited significance in measuring the performance of power
entities operating in a highly centralized financial system. In particular,
since surplus funds are largely remitted to the Government in the form of
Adjustment Tax, self-financing ratio has been largely "notional" for most
Chinese power bureaus. However, it still can serve as an effective tool to
ensure adequate tariff levels. With a view to promoting prudent financial



- 36 -
management, assurances have been obtained from FPEPB regardina the followina
financial performance taraets:
(a)   it would take all measures.  includina but not limited to tariff
adiustments. to ensure that its internal cash aeneration is suffi-
cient to maintain a self-financina ratio of no less than 22 verceat
in 1992/93. 25 Percent during 1994/95. and 30 gercent thereafter;
(b)   it would incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast shows
its internal cash aenerat. ,n would provide a debt service coverace
ratio of no less than 1.3 times. before 1995. and 1.5 times there-
after; and
(c)   it would maintain a dv''-t/eauitv ratio of no more than 75/25 in
1992-96 and 70/30 ther.4fter.
These targets represent a strengthening of the financial performance indica-
tors stipulated under the first phase loan in that the previous break even
covenant has been upgraded to a self-financing covenant, the debt service
coverage has been increased to 1.5 beyond 1995, and the debt/equity coverage
has been added.
D. Future Einances
6.9         The projections of FPEPB's finances for 1991-2000 are presented in
Annex 6.3, and summarized in Table 6.2 below. The projections are based on
the assumptions contained in Annex 6.3, which include tariff adjustments
needed to allow FPEPB to achieve the above financial performance targets and
conform to the agreed tariff action plan.
Table 6.2: KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS 1991-2000
tY million)
Year ended December 31  1991  1992  1993  I22.  1225  1996  1997  I199   199   2000
Energy saLes (GWh)   9,272 10,499 11,899 13,485 15,294 16,794 18,465 20,312 22,321 24,576
Average price (fen/kWh)  16.5  17.7  21.0  22.4  24.4  25.3  25.7  25.9  26.7  29.3
Operating revenue    1,530 1,863  2,497  3,016  3,736  4,253  4.760  5,268  5,969  7,192
operating income       158   191   583   769  1,053  1,164  1,257  1,271  1,148  1,509
AnnuaL capital expenditure920  1,231  1,722  1,580  1,349  1,160  1,019  1,202  1,626  1,534
Rate Base            2,132 2,255  3,097  5,435  8,096  9,568 10,523 11,300 11,386 11,776
Long-term debt taccum.) 4,011 4,921  6,294  7,407  7,998  8,235  8,251  8,348  8,813  8,994
Debt service           140   193   288   493   990  1,154  1,280  1,291  1,247  1,469
Proj.
avg.
Year ended December 31  1991  1992  1993   19224   22   1296  1997  1.98   129   DU  1991-2000
Rate of return
Hist. valued assets lX) 7.4   8.5  18.8  14.1  13.0  12.2  11.9  11.2  10.1  12.8    12.0
Not.Reval. assets (X)  1.5   1.7   4.4   4.5   5.2   5.4   5.2   5.0   4.3   5.2        4.2
Self-financing ratio (X)  22    22    22    25    25    31    38    42    37    37         30
Operating ratio (X)   79.5  79.4  64.0  60.7  56.9  57.2  57.8  60.1  66.9  65.1    64.8
Debt/equity ratio (X)   68.3  69.7  72.2  72.6  70.5  67.3  63.8  60.5  58.6  55.4    65.9
Debt serv. coverage (timesR.7   2.5   2.5   2.0   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.6   1.6       1.9
Current ratio (times)    2.3   2.5   3.1   3.6   3.9   4.2   4.6   4.9   5.0   5.1        3.9



- 37 -
6.10      During the period 1991-2000, FPEPB is projected to maintain high
growth rates. Energy sales are expected to increase by about 165 percent over
1991 levels (11.5 percent a year), and net fixed assets in operation are
expected to grow by about 457 percent (21 percent a year).
6.11      From 1993 onwards, PPEPB's performance is expected to improve drama-
tically as the Shuikou hydroelectric plant is commissioned. Operating ratios
should drop from about 80 percent in 1992 to 57 to 67 percent from 1993
onwards. Similarly, the rate of return on historically valued assets will
improve from 5 to 9 percent in 1990-92, to 13 percent on average in 1993-2000.
6.12      FPEPB's finances are expected to remain satisfactory based on the
projected average tariff level. Revenues and net income will grow rapidly as
sales, and particularly average tariff level increase. The latter is pro-
jected to increase by 36 percent from 1992 to 1995 and by 18 percent in 1993,
dictated by rapidly growing debt service requirements. In fact, the projected
tariff levels are determined more by debt service coverage than self-financing
ratio targets. By 1998, FPEPB's self-financing ratio is expected to reach
42 percent,so as to achieve the required debt service coverage ratio of 1.5
times.
6.13      In line with prudent financial management practices, FPEPB needs to
monitor its rising debt carefully in order to achieve a better balance between
debt and equity. Based on the projected future investments and related finan-
cing arrangements, its capital structure would improve gradually over time.
Specifically, its debt/equity ratio is forecast to decline from a peak of
73/37 in 1994 to 55/45 in 2000, which is satisfactory.
E. Financing Plan
6.14      FPEPB's financing plan for the second phase project implementation
period (1992-96) is shown in Table 6.3. The investment program does not
include capital requirements of Fuzhou Thermal Power Station II owned by
HIPDC.
6.15      The present Chinese financial system prevents a power bureau from
financing more than nominal amounts of its investment program from internal
cash generation. In the case of FPEP3, precisely 100 percent of cash avail-
able for investment is earmarked for rex.ovations and distribution improvements
through the Special Fund allocation system. The proposed project (excluding
interest during construction) accounts for about 23 percent of FPEPB's total
fund requirements and the proposed Bank loan will meet about 8 percent of
FPEPB's financing needs during the period.
6.16      The estimated foreign exchange requirement of the proposed project
exceeds the proposed loan by $25.7 million, representing interest during con-
struction. SEIC has arranged for FPEPB to borrow the Yuan equivalent of this
amount from the People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) at 5.04 percent per
annum interest, with repayment over a 10-year period beginning upon completion
of the project in 1995. Arrangements have also been made to allow FPEPB to
purchase the needed foreign exchange from the Bank of China to cover interest
during construction.



- 38 -
Table 6.3: FPEPB's Financing Plan, CY92-96
Y million          $ million
Sources of Funds
Internal cash generation                             5,928               1,092
(less) increment in working capital                    513                 95
(less) repayment of loans                            1,838                338
(less) remittances to government                       368                 67
(less) special fund expenditures                       945                174
(less) interest charged to operation                 1,281                236
Cash Available for Investment                             983                181
IBRD loan (Phase I)                                     216                 40
Proposed IBRD loan (Phase II)                           543                100
Other loans for proposed project                      1,324                243
All other loans                                       3,977                732
Total borrowings                                  6.060              1.116
Total sources of funds                            7,043              1.279
Aitplication of Funds
Proposed project                                      1,645                303
Other construction                                    3,668                675
Interest during construction                            747                138
Renovations                                             518                 95
Distribution improvements                               465                 86
Total aDilication of funds                        7.043               1.297
L/ $1 = Y 5.43.
6.17      Besides the Shuikou project, the next planned major project, in
FPEPB's investment program (Songyu thermal power plant) also has a foreign
exchange component of 25 percent of project cost, which is assumed to be
financed by a foreign investor. Currently, FPEPB is actively seeking to form
a joint venture with SEIC, Fujian Provincial Government, Xiamen International
Trust & Investment Corporation, and a yet to be identified foreign investor.
The detailed institutional arrangements, capital and ownership structure of
the new venture, and its relationship with FPEPB are not yet defined. Given
these uncertainties, financial projections assume traditional financing
arrangements.



- 39 -
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Proiect Benefits
7.1       The proposed project will provide reliable and economical electric-
ity supply to the Fujian province, without major adverse environmental
impacts. It will help Fujian to cope with a rapidly growing industrial demand
resulting from the Province opening to the outside world, and will contribute
to a further improvement in the living standards of the population. overall
the energy generated by the Shuikou development will account for half of the
incremental energy supply to the Fujian grid between 1990 and 1995, during
which time energy demand is expected to grow at a rate of 12.3 percent per
year.
7.2       Indirect benefits arise from:
(a) improved navigational conditions in the Min River between Nanping
and Fuzhou, which will allow the capacity of river transport to
increase from its current level of about 250,000 tons/year to about
4.0 million tons of freight and 2.0 to 2.5 million m3 of timber;
(b) upgraded infrastructure and housing arising from the resettlement
program, and flow-on to others in the region from the expenditure
locally of some $300 million with $200 million for resettlement; and
(c) the avoidance of thermal generation, involving burning of 1.6 mil-
lion tons of standard coal/year, land use for thermal plant of 1000
ha and for mining of 300 ha/year, gaseous and particle emissions of
65,000 tons/year, solid waste of 500,000 tons/year, and water usage
of 125,000 tons/year.
B. Proiect as a Least Cost Generating Alternative
7.3       Prior to the appraisal of the first project, comprehensive studies
were carried out by BERI indicating that the project was part of the least
cost generation program for the interconnected East China and Fujian grids.
With the extraordinary growth of power demand in Fujian since the appraisal of
the first loan, further studies were carried out by the same research insti-
tute, leading to a recommendation not to construct the tie-line at this stage
(paras. 4.14-4.17), and developed the generation investment program for the
grid described in para. 4.18, which includes immediate development of the
Shuikou project to serve the FPG. Since there are no hydro schemes ready for
implementation, and the central government imposes restrictions on use of oil
for power generation, generation alternatives in the short term are effec-
tively limited to coal fired steam turbine plants. The analysis presented in
Annex 7.1, demonstrates that the equalizing discount rate (the rate at which
coal plants would be more economical than Shuikou) is about 19 percent, con-
firming the rationale for development of the project as early as possible.
C. Proiect Size and Timina
7.4       Full SuoDlv Level.  The original design studies for Shuikou consid-
ered various full supply levels. These studies convincingly demonstrated that



- 40 -
the optimum full supply level (FSL) should be the maximum possible within
imposed constraints. Powerhouses on the upstream tributaries, Shaqikou,
Afengqiao, and Gutianxi, dictate a maximum dry season FSL of El. 65.0 m. The
operating level during flood season (April to July) of El. 61.0 m was deter-
mined taking into account backwater effects during flood flows, and flood
control implications in Nanping City.
7.5       Installed Cagacitv.  Original design studies also considered various
installed capacities up to a maximum of 1,600 MW. For capacities above
1,200 MW, only benefits resulting from fuel savings due to additional energy
generation were considered, with no value taken for additional peaking capa-
bility. This was because of considerable time before full utilization of
peaking capability (during the dry season) by the interconnected grids. Since
similar considerations apply to Shuikou in the FPG, with full absorption in
the dry season not expected until the year 2003, the original optimization,
yielding an optimum capacity of 1,400 MW, would be expected to remain valid.
An updating of the original analysis, presented in Annex 7.1 confirms this.
7.6       Timing.  Commissioning date of the first generating unit is planned
for June 1993. The supply situation in 1993 is likely to be very tight, since
the demand is expected to grow by more than 800 MW between 1990 and 1993, and
the last major commissionings were the 700 MW HIPDC plant in 1989 and the 200
MW Shaqikou plant in 1989/90. The first two turbines of Shuikou totaling 400
MW are the only commissionings planned for 1993. Since the installation of
later units is justified by fuel savings alone (para. 7.5), and all energy
generated by subsequent units can be absorbed immediately after commissioning,
their installation at minimum practicable intervals is also justified.
D. Economic Rate of Return
7.7       The IERR of the Shuikou development was calculated using the esti-
mated economic costs of the project at end 1991 constant prices, with associ-
ated transmission and distribution. The end 1991 "Huaneng" price which is
applied to almost all new consumption, provides a lower bound estimate for
"willingness to pay" and was therefore used as a proxy for the economic value
of electricity. On this basis, the IERR is about 19 percent. The benefits
were also calculated using the tariff required to meet financial covenants.
The IERR thus calculated is about 14 percent.
7.8       The IERR was also calculated for the entire investment program of
the FPG for plants commissioned up until the year 2000. The rates of return
are 19 percent and 11.4 percent, based on the Huaneng price and on the average
tariff level for 1994. Both analyses are presented in Annex 7.1.
E. Progect Risks
7.9       The risks generally associated with hydroelectric projects are
related to potential cost and schedule overruns due to geological and hydro-
logical uncertainties, and contractor and construction supervision inadequa-
cies. For the current project, in which foundations and all river bed work
are complete, only one flood season remains prior to dam completion, and the
first generating unit is on schedule for commissioning in June 1993, the risk
of major cost or time overruns is very low. There is a risk that the some
people affected by the resettlement program will be disadvantaged during the



- 41 -
period taken to bring new production systems up to full capacity. This risk
is being minimized by the IER, and assurances being obtained that the Govern-
ment will monitor the reports of the IER, and make funds available to sustain
incomes at acceptable levels until they are fully restored (para. 5.18).



-42 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1       Assurances have been obtained:
(a)  from the Borrower that it will:
(i) onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to FPEPB on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.36);
(ii) continue to carry out or cause to be carried out a resettlement
program in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.16);
(iii) monitor the reports of the Independent Evaluation of Resettle-
ment, take action to accelerate the reestablishment of income
and welfare in identified problem areas, and make funds avail-
able to sustain incomes at acceptable levels until they are
fully restored (para. 5.17); and
(iv) carry out the EMP jointly with FPEPB in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 5.19).
(b)  from FPEPB that it will:
(i) continue to furnish to the Bank by April 30 of each year, a
rolling long-term financial plan containing projected income
statements, sources and uses of funds and balance sheets, for a
period of eight years (para. 3.12);
(ii) implement a plan for power tariff structure improvements
acceptable to the Bank in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
including the completion of the first phase by December 31,
1993 (para. 3.25);
(iii) carry out a hydro project inventory reevaluation, with timing,
specialist assistance and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 4.19);
(iv) carry out its transmission expansion program in accordance with
a schedule satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.6);
(v)  prepare, prior to completion of the dam, a program of annual
maintenance of the project works, satisfactory to the Bank,
undertake periodic inspections of the dam and associated works
using independent experts whose qualifications and experience
are acceptable to the Bank, and to implement their recommenda-
tions (para. 5.11);
(vi) jointly with the Borrower, continue to carry out or cause to be
carried out a resettlement program in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 5.16);
(vii)  carry out the EMP, jointly with the Borrower, in a manner sat-
isfactory to the Bank (para. 5.19);



- 43 -
(viii)  take all measures, includini but not limited to tariff adjust-
ments, to ensure that its ir ernal cash generation is suffi-
cient to maintain a self-financing ratio of no less than
22 percent in 1992/93, 25 percent in 1994/95, and 30 percent
thereafter (para. 6.8);
(ix) not incur additional debt unless a reasonable forecast shows
its internal cash generation would provide a debt service cov-
erage ratio of no less than 1.3 times before 1995, and 1.5
times thereafter (para. 6.8); and
(x) maintain a debt/equity ratio of no more than 75/25 in 1992-96
and 70/30 thereafter (para. 6.8).
8.2       Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
FPEPB and approval of the Loan Agreement by the State Council would be condi-
tions of loan effectiveness (para. 5.36).
8.3       Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable
for a Bank loan of $100.0 million to the People's Republic of China. The loan
would be for a term of 20 years including a five-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate, with level principal repayments.



CHINA
Second Shuikou Hydroelectric Prolect
Total Production and ConsumDtion of Enermy and Its ComDositlon
1978    1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989    1990
PRODUCTION                   628     646    637    632    668    713    779    855   881    913    958   1016    1039
(million of standard fue)
Proportion ()
Coal                       70.3    70.2   69.4   70.2   71.3   71.6   72.4   72.8   72.4   72.6   73.1   74.1    74.2
Crude OCl                  23.7    23.5   23.8   22.9   21.8   21.3   21.0   20.9   21.2   21.0   20.4   19.3    19.0
Naturai Gas                 2.9     3.0    3.0    2.7    2.4    2.3    2.1    2.0   2.1    2.0    2.0    2.0       2.0
Hydro Power                 3.1     3.3    3.8    4.2    4.5    4.8    4.5    4.3   4.3    4.4    4.5    4.6       4.8
CONSUMPTiON                  571     586    603    594    621    660    709    767    809    866    930    969      980
(million of standard fuel)
Proportion (%)
Coal                       70.7   '71.3   72.2   72.7   73.7   74.2   75.3   75.8  75.8   76.2   76.2   76.0    75.6
Crude Oil                  22.7    21.8   20.7   20.0   18.9   18.1   17.4   17.1   17.2   17.0   17.0   17.1    17.0
Natural Gas                 3.2     3.3    3.1    2.8    2.5    2.4    2.4    2.2   2.3   2.1    2.1    2.0         2.1
Hydro Power                 3.4     3.6    4.0    4.5    4.9    5.3    4.9   4.9   4.7    4.7    4.7    4.9        5.3
GNP Index                  100.0   107.6  116.0  121.2  131.8  145.4  166.6  187.8  203.4  225.8  250.6  260.5   274.1
(constant pdces)
Energy Intensity Index     100.0    95.4   91.0   85.8   82.5   75.9   74.5   71.5   69.7   67.2   65.0   65.1    62.6
(consumptionGNP)
Source: China Statistical Yearbook 1991.
Notes:
Excluding blo-energy, solar, geothermal and nuclear energy.
All fuels are converted Into standard coal with Ihermal enuivalent of 7.000 kilocalorie per kiloaram. The conversion factors are:
1kg of coal (5000 kca)          - Q714 kg of standard coal.
I kg of crude oil (10000 kcal   - 1.43 kg of standard coal.
1 cubic metre of natural gas (931S0 kca  - 1.33 kg of standard coal.
The conversion of hydropower Is based of the specific consumption of standard coal for thermal power genration of the year.



- 45  -                                          Anngx 1.2
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Energy
Minlster
Vice Ministers
-China Natonal Nuclear                           Electric Power
General Office    .   Z                 Industrv Corporatlon    II                 Ospatching Center
I-        sDepartment of                       China Natonal Oil &Energy Informaon Center
Policy 8 Legislaton                     Natural Gas CoIraton
Plann                     I  ChinOil Conal oatonr                       Electric Power Planning
D Oepartment ot Planning&l           7        Oil Corporaton                        & Engineering Institutions
DCaPitmnstructon                        China Northeast and                       Water Resources &
Ca iaCos nInner-Mongolia United                    Hydropower Survey
Department of Safety                    Coal Industry CorporaUon                      & Design Institutes
& Environmental Protection                _     _._.
___   -China NaUonal                                Colleges
Department of  l                  Coal Corporaton
ordination.I   Scientfic & Technical
China Natonal Local     1HResearch Institutes
= cOnmlc .oordent of                           Coal Mines
ordination                    Development Corporaton
Department of  
Enerae Conservation                    HiHuaneng Intemational Power
0eveloprnen t C orporatlon
|  Department of  
Science & Technolo v                         Regional Electric
|Power Administration
Oepartment of Education                 FCIChina InternatIonal Water &
D epartment of 
Intemabonal Cooperation    I                   China Huadian
.                           H    ~~~~~~~~~~~(Group) Corporation
OeF~partment of 
Personnel & Labor                       China EIecticity Cou     nc
Department of Electric Power                        Power Leading
r Group. State Council
OepaRtment of 
Hydropower Development                      Oil to Coal Conversion
Office State Council
O- -epa~Rment of Rural 
IEnergy 6 Electrification  I
D epartment of Coal
Department of Administration
I nief Enrineers Otffce
for Petroeum Industry
Chief EngIneers Office
for Nuclear Industr     i                                                                             ksr/wS1 118



46 -
Atnex 2. 1
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Installed Cg2acitv. Electricity Generation and Sales In the Power Subsector
Installed Capacity (MW)       Energy Generation (lWh)         Energy
Year          Hydro   Thermal  Total         Hydro    Thermal     Total     Sales a/ (GWh)
1949            163    1,686        1,849       710      3,600      4,310      3,460
1957           1,019    3,616      4,635      4,820    14,515      19,335     16,407
1965           3,020    12,056    15.076      10,414    57,190     67,604     56,802
1970           6,235    17.535    23,770      20,450    95.420    115,870        n.a.
1975          13.428   29,978     43,406      47,630   148,210    195,840    156,969
1976          14,655   32,492     47,147      45,640   157,490    203,130    164,698
1977          15,765   35,686     51,451      47,670   175,740    223,410    181,691
1978          17,277   39,845     57,122      44,630   211,920    256,550    210,239
1979          19,110   45,906     63,016      50,120   231,827    281,947    233,577
1980          20,318   45,551     65,869      58,211    242,416    300,627    251,639
1981          21.933   47,069     69,002      65,546   243,723    309,269    258,976
1982          22,959   49,401     72,360      74,399   253,279    327,678    275,299
1983          24,160   52,279     76,440      86,150   264,9P0    351,440    297,126
1984          25,547   54,373     79,920      85,780   290,207    376,987    319,600
1985          26,120   60,373     86,493      92,374   318,315    410,689    348,353
1986          27,542   66,276     93,818      94,480   355,091    449,571    357,057
1987          30,193   72,704    102,897    100,229   397,092    497,321     420,019
1988          32,698   82,799    115,497    109,177   435,888    545,065    464,013
1989          34,570   92,060    126,637    118,475   466,200    584,675    495,135
1990          35,370   99,630    135,000    126,000   492,000    618,000    527,154
Average Growth rates p.a.
1970-75       16.6%    11.3%      12.8%       8.2%      9.2%       11.1%
1975-80        8.6%     8.7%      8.7%        4.1%     10.3%       9.0%       9.9%
1980-85        5.2%     5.8%      5.6%        9.7%      5.6%       6.7%       6.7%
1985-90        6.3%     10.5%     9.3%        6.4%      9.1%       8.5%       8.6%
a/ Energy sales not Including uses by stations and captive plants.
Source: MOE



- 47 -
Annex 2.2
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Growth Index of Electricity Generation and Primary Enerav Demand
Installed Capacity  Electricity Generation  Growth Index
Total  Share of     Total      Share of        Primary      Electricity
Year    (MW)  Hvdro (%Y)    (TWh        Hydro (%b  GNP   Energy      Generatlon
1979    63,015.9     30.3    281.9      17.8      100      100         100
1980    65,869.1     30.8    300.6      19.4      103      107         107
1981    69,132.6     31.7    309.3      21.2      102      110         110
1982    72,359.6     31.7    327.7      22.7      106      116         116
1983    76,444.9     31.6    351.4      24.6      113      125         125
1984    80,116.9     31.9    377.0      23.0      121      134         134
1985    87,053.2     30.3    410.7      22.5      131      144         144
1986    93,818.5     29.4    449.6      2.0       138      159         159
1987   102,897.0     29.3    497.3      20.2      148      176         176
1988   115,497.1     28.3    545.1      20.0      159      193         193
1989   126,638.6     27.0    584.7      20.2      165      207         207
1990   135,000.0     26.2    618.0      20.4      167      219         219
Source: MOE



- 48 -
Annex 2.3
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Electricity Consumotion by Sectors
Natlon's                         Share of  Share of Rural  Share of
Total     Share of !ndustry (%6    Transport-  (including  Municipal &
Year       (TWhf     Whole Hcaw  LWMht   ation (%)  household (%)   Residential (%)
1949         3.5      69.1  34.4   34.7       0.6      0.6          29.8
1952         6.2      80.0  43.0   37.0       0.9      0.7          18.4
1957         16.4     82.9  58.6   24.3       0.4      0.7          16.0
1962        37.8      84.6  70.0   14.6       0.6     4.1           10.7
1966        70.0      84.1  69.1   15.0       0.6      7.8           7.5
1972        123.6     82.3  69.7   12.6       0.6    10.5            6.6
1976        164.7     78.3  64.6   13.7       1.1    14.1            6.5
1977        186.3     78.5  65.0   13.5       1.2    13.7            6.6
1978       214.9      79.0  65.9   13.1       1.1    13.7            6.3
e979       233.6      79.0  65.9   13.1       0.6    13.9            6.5
1980       251.6      77.9  64.5   13.4       0.6    14.9            6.6
1981        259.0     76.2  62.6   13.6       0.8    16.0            7.0
1982       275.3      76.0  62.0   14.0       0.7    16.0            7.6
1983        297.1     75.7  60.9   14.8       0.7    16.0            7.6
1984        319.6     75.2  60.5   14.7       0.8    15.9            8.1
1985        348.5     73.8  58.8   15.0       0.9    16.5            8.8
1986        379.7     72.9  57.7   15.2       1.2    16.4            9.5
1987        423.5     72.5  57.9   14.6       1.2    16.4            9.9
1988       461.3      71.3  57.3   14.5       1.9    16.4            9.9
1989       495.2      71.0  53.9   17.1       1.9    16.7           10.4
1990        524.7     69.4  52.1   17.3       2.0    17.3           11.3
Source: MOE



FUJIAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
Organization Chart
Th.I   1k ..8..,
3  ......
r4iss C-;@UE. Ce"d.,ls,                                        re-h,l Cosbz"a"                             C  a.
D"Px" c,,.     |~~1110smab so"S 01|sa;9Z "66564
Me.bbafts..  .Sm.    ps".                                        C.6......  *gat6      a C              ^,bak.6  @" Ts 
M... ae" irkdf
I.,. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~   ~   ~  .. Z
pT..&bims C.R.-
3 T .&lk. kb-



CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Performance Indicators for FPEPB
1981   1982     1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Installed Capacity(M     882    880      878    975   1.037   1.122   1.312   1.381   1.456   1.525
Hydro                  578    578       578    578    559    532    634    709    784    859
Thermal                304    302       300    397    478    591    678    672    672    666
Enerav Generation (_Whb    3    3.598    3.681   4.002   4.304   5.104   5.923   6.817   6.081   6.096
Hydro                 2,280   2,396    2,629   2,324   2,389   2,158   2,047   2,915   2,725   3,048
Thermal               1.043   1,200    1,052   1,678   1,915   2,946   3,876   3,902   3,356   3,047
Caoacitv Factor(%)         43     47       48      47     47      52     52      56     46      46
Hydro                   45      46       52     46      49     46      37     47      40     41
Thermal                 39      47       40     48      46     57      65      66     57     52
Max. demand (MW)          687    694      760    860    963   1,069   1,228   1,407   1,675   1,860
Energy sales (GWh)      3,212   3.475    3,656   3,965   4.483   5,004   5,690   6,631   7,817   8,095
Growth in sales (%)       6.9     &2       5.2    &5    13.1   11.6   13.7   16.5   17.9    3.6
Plant use (%)             2.9    3.4       2.8    4.0   4.39    5.58    6.24    5.73    5.48   4.99
T&Dlosses(%)              84      8.9      84     8.2   8.24   7.85    7.56    8.03    6.79   6.87
Average coal consumption
(gm of std coal per kWh)  552    555      547    547    531    516    503    495    493    482
Numberof customers       n.a. 77,142   81,389  87,509  92,179 127,802 176,154 192,894 251,173 264,594
Number of employees      n.a.    n.a.     n.a. 15,183  16,475  20,283  20,392  19,926  19,688  19,486
Saes per employee MWh)    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    261    272    252    290    342    397    415
NJ



- 51 -                            ANNEX 3.3
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Staff of FPEPB
(as of December 31, 1990)
Number
By Svecialtv
Technical staff                             2,628                        14
Administrative staff /a                     2,287                        12
Service staff                               1,920                        11
Operations staff                            9,299                        51
Apprentices                                   295                         2
Other                                       1,805                        10
Total                                      18 234                       100
By Functional Units
Power generation                            6,852                        38
Operator trainees                             295                         2
Transmission maintenance                      511                         3
Distribution maintenance                      551                         3
T&D construction                            1,907                        10
Substation                                  1,424                         8
Power supply                                  680                         4
Thermal power construction                  1,139                         6
Repair                                      1,932                        10
Dispatching and research                      415                         2
Design                                        349                         2
Education                                     450                         2
Administration                                270                         2
Others                                      1,450                         8
Total                                      18.234                       100
Ls includes finance and accounting personnel.
Source



- 52 -                            ANNEX 3.4
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
FPEPB's Existing Trainina Facilities and Expansion Proaram
Academic                   Existing              Plan of Expansions
1990        1991   1992   1993  1994  1995
Ouanzhou Electric Power Technological School
(Established in 1984, provides 4-year curricula for training of junior
secondary school graduates as mid-level technicians)
Total staff                      250           260    260   260    260    260
of which teaching staff       149           159    159   159    159    159
Students admitted                230           240    240   240    240    240
Students enrolled                957           949    949   950    960    960
Students graduated                 83          239    245   239    230    240
Fuzhou Electric Power Technicians' School
(Re-ebtablished in 1978, provides 2-year curricula for training of
secondary graduates as skilled workers)
Total staff                       168          198    198   198    198    198
of which teaching staff       106           116    136   136    136    136
Students admitted                263           280    280   280    280    280
Students enrolled                543           627    823   840    840    840
Students graduated               173           217      84   263    280    280
Zhanazhou Electric Power Cadre School
(Provides 2-year training for FPEPB mid-level technical staff and short
courses for FPFPB administrative/managerial staff)
Total staff                        33           33      33    33     33      33
of which teachir.g staff       13            13      13    13     13      13
Capacity                          100          100    100   100    100    100
Source: FPEPB.



- 53 -                           ANNEX 3.5
CHIN
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Financial Management Training
Background
1.        As state-owned enterprises, the power bureaus are bound by the
financial regulations established by GOC and the financial system h.3 thus far
been highly centralized. Until the recent economic reform, these enterprises
were essentially operating arms of the government and financial responsibili-
ties/autonomy were very limited; investments were largely funded by government
grants and the entities' surplus funds were mostly remitted to the government.
Indeed, the function of finance at these enterprises essentially has been
confined to financial reporting; managerial-orientation and modern treasury
functions (such as cash and debt management) are lacking. Further, under the
present Chinese system, heavy emphasis is placed on the annual budget as a
controlling tool, but financial planning generally is not undertaken beyond
one year. Within the present institutional framework, the power bureaus have
performed satisfactorily.
2.        Under the ongoing economic and enterprise management reforms in
China, the institutional framework is becoming less centralized with corre-
sponding increases in financial autonomy and responsibility for decision-mak-
ing at the state enterprise level. Reforms of the funding arrangements
between GOC and the state enterprises continue to evolve. As a first major
step, investments are being financed more by debt (mainly domestic loans) than
by government grants. For most of the Bank-financed power entities, the Bank
loan represents their first foreign borrowings; it is also novel for most of
these entities to bear the related foreign exchange risks. Separately, ini-
tiatives are being taken to improve financial management and control. These
initiatives include introducing computer applications and establishing an
internal auditing function. However, these initiatives are at an initial
stage of implementation and are limited in scope. In order to perform their
increased role efficiently and effectively, power bureaus will need to
strengthen their financial management, particularly with respect to planning,
cost control and debt management. Under the various Bank-financed power oper-
ations in China, provisions have been made for training _n financial manage-
ment. These training activities are centrally managed by MOE/SEIC. Recently
a training seminar conducted by Price Waterhouse (US and Hong Kong) was held
in Chengdu. In addition, overseas training was conducted by Electricite de
France. Finally, the Bank recently organized a seminar in Hangzhou to provide
an overview on corporate planning and financial management information sys-
tems.
Objectives
3.        The main participants in the financial management training would be
officials from the finance/accounting and planning departments of the various
Bank-financed power entities. The training activities are designed to famil-



- 54 .AMEEX 3.5
iarize these officials with selected topics in the modern financial management
of power utilities, covering both operation and project construction. This
objective would be achieved through a series of training seminars in China,
overseas training and study tours. Initial training activities would aim at
providing a general overview of the selected topics. Subsequent training
activities would build on the earlier experiences and provide in-depth dis-
cussions of the topics which are of particular importance and interest to the
participants.
Scope
4.        Two related and complex subjects, tariff design and system planning,
are being covered separately under Bank Group-financed studies. The major
topics of financial management training are outlined below.
Financial Control. Monitoring. and Evaluation
5.        For (i) operation; and (ii) project construction:
(a)  budgeting units and organization of responsibility centers;
(b)  transfer pricing, joint cost allocation;
(c)  performance indicators for monitoring and control;
(d)  methodology and procedure for cost management, including cost
accounting; cost of service analyses which could in turn provide the
basis for tariff design; budget preparation and control; assessment
of potential cost savings as well as stock management; and
(e)  organization and procedures for internal controls, including inter-
nal auditing and operational/management audit.
Long-Term Finacial Planning
(a)  methodology of long-term financial forecasting;
(b)  project financial evaluations;
(e)  coordination with investment planning and reiteration with capital
budgetirng; and
(d)  project financing, including various instruments of financing,
debt/equity structuring, foreign debt management--including evalua-
tion of different financing terms (covering different currencies,
interest rates, maturities, grace periods etc.), strategies and
instruments to minimize foreign exchange risks.
State-of-the-Art in Financial Management Technigues
*    including computer applications for billing and stock management,
financial reporting, budgeting, long-term financial planning, con-
trol and management information system.



- 55 -                           ANNEX 3.5
International Accounting Standards
Selected topics which are of particular relevance and interest to the power
bureaus, including for example:
(a) consolidated financial statements--Chinese accounting practice is
not to consolidate capital construction accounts with production
accounts. However, in order to provide an overall view of the power
bureau's financial position, agreements have been reached with the
various Bank-financed power bureaus that the financial statements
furnished to the Bank would consolidate the capital construction
accounts with production accounts;
(b) cash flow statements or statement of changes in financial position--
They are =  required for financial reporting in China.  To facili-
tate financial analysis and management by the power bureaus, agree-
ments have been reached with the Bank-financed power bureaus that
such statements would be prepared and furnished to the Bank.
(b) accounting for construction contracts;
(c)  information reflecting the effects of changing prices--this would
become increasingly significant as inflation recently has escalated
sharply in China; and
(e) accounting for the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates--
current Chinese accounting practice is an anomaly in this respect.
Contract Managmeent
*    commercial aspects of bidding documents, contract terms including
financial claims.



CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SaWe and Tarifs bvkg aorv - Fird Quarter 191l
TOTAL                                       ENERCY CHARGE                       DEMAND CHARGE
Power    Peak
Totl   Ene0y    Demand   Fator    Vailey
Prie   ChaWe   Chage    Charge   Chaw          Old Prbe        New Price       Huaneng
GWh                 --f&W i      -       -          GWh   UflWh    GWh UkWh         GWh  bkWh  MVA  YlkVA   MW    YIkW
UGHTING            207.0  18.96  16.96                                207.0  16.95
Below 1kv          188.3  17.00  17.00                                186.3  17.00
1-10kv and aboe     20.7  10.60  16.50                                 20.7  16.50
SMALL IND.& COMM   218.5  18.71  17.47               0.85     0.59    104.2   9.88      35.3  16.90     79.0  28
Below 1kv          100.9  22.48  20.22               1.27     0.90     38.8  10.80      10.9  1B.90     51.4  28
1-10kv              76.8  16.66  16.12              0.16      0.26     47.3   9.30      2.5  16.90      27.0  28
36kvand above       40.8  13.45  13.21               0.00     0.24     18.3   8.30      21.9  16.90      0.8  28
LARGEINDUSTRY   1065.0  15.39  13.37       1.69      0.11     0.22    M66.3   7.18    133.7  15.78    262.0  28   3,610    4.0   600    6.0
1-10kvgneral       520.0  17.16  14.83     2.23     0.26      0.44    284.4   8.10     97.4  15.78    138.2  28   2.520    4.0   250    0.0
1-1Okv(preftnfn     66.6   5.89   4.92     0.97      0.00     0.00    65.6   4.92       0.0   0.00       0.0    0     62    4.0    50    6.0
1-10kf (sbtota)    576.6  16.69  13.85     2.10      0.24     0.40    341.0   7.57     97.4  15.78    138.2  28   2,582    4.0   300    6.0
3SSvWgena          392.0  15.88  14.88     1.06    -0.04      0.00    231.9   7.70     36.3  15.78    123.8  28    920    4.0    80    6.0
36kv(pretea         96.4   8.22   4.40      1.82     0.00     0.00     96.4   4.40      0.0   0.00       0.0    0    108    4.0   220    6.0
35kv(gubtOt        488.4  13.97  12.7       1.21    -0.03     0.00    328.3   6.73      36.3  15.78    123.8  28   1,028    4.0   300    8.0
AGtICULTURE         37.3  10.62  10.52                                 37.3  10.52
Below lkw           28.8  1120   11.20                                 26.8  11.20
1-10kv               7.8   9.00   9.00                                  7.8  11.20
35kv and above       2.7   8.10   8.10                                  2.7   8.10
BULK SALES         632.2  17.73  17.73     0.00    -0.09      0.25    275.4   7.90      84.8  15.47    272.0  28       0    0.0       0    0.0
TOTAL           2,t10.0  18.48  15.31    0.84      0.09     0.24   1293.2   9.18    253.8  15.83    613.0  28   3.810    4.0   6oo    6.0          X



-57 -                                   3.E 37
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Acton Pian for Tariff Structure Improvements
Backgroun
1.        The tariff system currently applied in Fujian needs to be improved
to reflect equitably the costs of supply of the various types of consumption
categories, encourage an efficient use of electricity, simplify billing and
tariff management for the Power Bureau, and yield sufficient revenues to meet
the financial requirements of the Fujian Power Grid, including an adequate
contribution to investments. The following action plan has been designed to
address these issues, taking into account the specific circumstances of
Fujian. It will be implemented in steps, under the supervision, and with the
assistance of MOE and Fujian Pricing Commission authorities.
Main Objectives
2.        The main objectives of the action plan are to:
(a) gradually unify the current three-tier system applied to industry
and nonlighting commercial uses, and phase out preferential indus-
trial tariffs;
(b) adjust the commercial lighting tariff, with a view to eliminate
separate billing for lighting;
(c) apply appropriate differentials according to voltage level of sup-
ply, increase the weight of the demand charge, and extend the use of
time-of-day/seasonal tariffs, to better reflect costs of supply and
increase incentives for a rational use of electricity;
(d) gradually adjust tariffs for agriculture and residential uses to
reduce subsidies for consumers other than low-income groups; and
(e) rationalize FPEPB's tariffs for bulk supply and purchases from inde-
pendent generators.
Time Frame and Phases of the Action Plan
3.        The action plan includes two phases.  The first phase, extending
until end 1993, includes the unification of industrial and commercial tariffs,
the separation of commercial uses from the residential tariff, an increase of
the demand charge for large industrial users, and an acceptable differentia-
tion according to voltage level (see below). In a second phase (l994/9ij,
measures will be implemented to further improve the tariff structure (notably
through time-of-day/seasonal rates). These measures will be the subject of a
study to be carried out based on a detailed analysis of economic costs of
supply. This study will also address is,sues related to bulk-supply and pur-
chase tariffs (terms of reference attached).



-58 -                             ANEX 3.7
Measures to be Imnlemented in the First Phase
4.        Industrial and commercial tariffs will be restructured in steps, to
reach by end 1993, a unified structure, which will include a higher demand
charge and a reasonable differentiation according to voltage level. This
would be achieved through the following steps:
(a)  as soon as practicable, and no later than the fourth quarter of
1992, the two "new" rates applied to new consumption, will be merged
into one; this will require the transformation of the current mar-
keting agreement with HIPDC into a suitable purchase contract, tak-
ing into consideration the characteristics of the operations of the
electricity supply system.
(b)  the demand charge applied to large industry will be adjusted by a
factor of 2.5, (reflecting the increase of the average industrial
rate since 1985), and reasonable differentiations according to volt-
age level will be applied to the "new" energy charges (6 percent
between 10 and 35/110 kV for large industry, 10 percent between low-
voltage, 10 kV, and 35 kV for small industry);
(c)  for large industry, the increase of the demand charge will be com-
pensated by a reduction of the comprehensive new energy charges; for
small industry, the "old" energy charges will be adjusted to main-
tain reasonable consistency, for similar load factors, with the
tariff for large industry following the raise of the demand charge;
(d)  meanwhile, the "old" energy charges will be adjusted in steps, to
reach gradually the levels of the "new" rates, with which they will
ultimately be merged by end 1993 and
(e) preferential tariffs will be adjusted gradually, aiming at their
elimination by 1995.
5.        The tariff for commercial lighting will be separated from the resi-
dential tariff in 1992, and set at a level consistent with the expected com-
prehensive tariff for commercial and small industrial uses after unification
of the latter, which will eliminate the need for separate billing of lighting
after 1993.
6.        Pending the recommendations of the study, the tariff for agricul-
tural production, with possible exceptions for irrigation, will be adjusted
gradually to rate not less than that of the average tariff level. The residen-
tial tariff will be adjusted reasonably, notably to keep it above the average
price paid by large industry supplied at 35/110 kV.
Measures to be Implemented in the Second Phase
7.        The second phase will include the implementation of the recommenda-
tions of the study, as agreed following review by MOE and the Bank. This is
notably expected to include the extension of time-of-day/seasonal tariffs, the
adjustment of the residential tariff to bring it in line with other tariffs
for low-voltage supply, and the restructuring of bulk rates and rurchase tar-
iffs.



-59 -                             ANNlE 3m 8
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Terms Of Reference for the Tariff Study
A. Backaround
1.        The Fujian Power Grid is a mixed hydro/thermal system.  Peak demand
is growing rapidly, and reached 1,860 MW in 1990, for an energy generation of
11,750 GWh. The largest plant today is the coal fired 2*350 HIPDC Fuzhou
plant, and the main hydro plants are Shaqikou (300 MW) and Gutianqi (260 MW).
A significant portion of energy is provided by mini-hydro plants. Following
the commissioning of Shuikou (1,400 MW), the peak-shaving capabilities of the
system will be greatly enhanced, but the seasonal variations of the cost
structure are expected to be more pronounced.
2.        The Fujian Power Bureau is currently engaged in the implementation
of an action plan to reform its tariff structure. Until the end of 1993, the
main thrust of this action plan will be the unification of the current three-
tier system applied to industrial and commercial uses, covering also the tar-
iff for commercial lighting currently billed at the same rate as residential
uses. The demand charge will be increased, and adequate differences between
voltage levels will be applied. This first phase of the action plan should
lay the ground for further improvements to be implemented in a second phase,
to further increase the efficiency of the tariff structure. These improve-
ments are the subject of the proposed study, which will cover not only rates
for final consumers, but also bulk sales and purchase tariffs.
B. Objectives of the Study
3.        The tariff study will be carried out with the following objectives:
(a) to transfer to FPEPB modern methods of power tariff design based on
criteria of economic efficiency, financial adequacy, and fairness;
and
(b)  to look into the practical problem' raised by the transition from
current pricing arrangements, and to propose a concrete program of
implementation.
B. Scope of Wrk
4.        The study will consider the design of the power tariff structure in
the framework of the desirable evolution of the tariff level, as dictated
notably by financial covenants; it will cover sales at high, medium, and low-
voltage to final and bulk users, as well as purchase tariffs for independent
suppliers. The study should evaluate and highlight the relative mer-
its/demerits of the proposed approach in comparison to current ones and to
purely financial approaches.
5.        The study will include, inter alia, the following tasks.



-60 -                             ANNEX 3.8
(a) Reviewing existing pricing, metering, billing arrangements for final
users, bulk sales, and purchases from independent producers, as well
as current practices regarding the resale by power bureaus supplied
in bulk by FPEPB, connection charges, and the Power Fund surcharge;
(b) Analyzing system load and individual demand patterns by voltage
level, including seasonal patterns at the aggregate level and for
selected sectors, as well as the distribution of consumption of
residential Asers;
(c) Analyzing load dispatch and marginal economic costs of power genera-
tion, transmission, and distribution;
(d) Calculating marginal costs of service and comparing them with cur-
rent revenue levels for typical consumers;
(e) Designing alternative options for the improvement of rate structures
for sales to final consumers;
(f) Designing alternative rate structures for purchases from small and
medium independent producers, to optimize the use of these
resources;
(g) Designing alternative rate structures for bulk sales, consistent
with proposed options for retail tariffs;
(h) Analyzing the financial soundness of the proposed rates; and
(i) Recommending a target tariff structure and level, and an implementa-
tion strategy, including aspects relating to metering and billing
systems.
D. Method and Organization
6.        The Study will draw on the method, materials and experience gathered
from the East China Power Pricing Study, completed under the Beilungang Ther-
mal Power Project, and will make ample use of the expertise available from the
BERIWREP. However, the large share of hydropower and the emphasis on purchase
tariffs are relatively novel and specific features of the study; limited for-
eign consultancy services are recommended to assist on these aspects and
review the practical steps recommended for tariff improvements.
7.        The transfer of know-how will take place through an overseas study
trip, on-the-job training, and workshops at the inception stage and to review
the study reports.
8.        The study will be carried out jointly by FPEPB and the BERIWREP
under the auspices of the Ministry of Energy. It will be managed by a Steer-
ing Committee represerting both FPEPB and MOE and coordinated by a Pr.incipal
Investigator. The Committee will exchange views with the Bank on the progress
and findings of the study.



- 61                              A
9.        The study will make use of the output from recent systems planning
studies. Sample load measurements and analyses should be started as soon as
possible. Key dates in the timetable for the study are planned as follows:
Startup           January 1993
Interim Report           August 1993
Final Report           December 1993
The interim report would include a specific analysis and first recommendations
regarding bulk-supply tariffs.



- 62 -                            ANNEX 3
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Training
For Planning and Commercial Management
!ackgrQund
1.        The Fujian Power Grid (FPG) is a mixed hydro/thermal interconnected
system. It provides about 85 percent of electricity requirements of Fujian,
and isolated grids are expected to be connected to the main network in the
near future. Of the 11.8 TWh generated in FPG in 1990, half was from hydro-
electric plants. Due to the large share of hydroelectricity with limited
storage capacity, thermal generation will be increasingly seasonal and sensi-
tive to hydrological conditions. FPEPB is responsible for formulating the
demand forecast and investment program for the province, for the consolidation
of commercial statistics, and for the formulation of tariff proposals, includ-
ing for power supply bureaus which are not under its direct jurisdiction. In
1990, FPEPB's own generation together with that of the coal fired plant oper-
ated by HIPDC was about 72 percent of the FPG total. FPEPB's sales to its
direct customers account for about 60 percent of consumption in the FPG, the
remainder being supplied by local power bureaus who purchase in bulk from
FPEPB and have their own minihydro plants. FPG has registered record growth
rates since 1985, notably in industrial and residential consumption. It is
expected to continue to grow at a fast pace, although there is a large degree
of uncertainty on medium term demand. This will require a close monitoring of
the electricity market, improved load forecasting techniques, and enhanced
tools of demand side management (DSM).
2.        The Planning Department needs to upgrade its hardware, software, and
methodology, and increase computerization of its planning tasks and data man-
agement, in order to improve its operations in a complex planning environment.
Objectives of the Program
3.        The technical assistance program for the Planning and Business Man-
agement Departments is carried out with the following objectives:
(a) to transfer state-of-the-art methods for medium to long term demand
side analysis, load forecasting, and planning, and generally upgrade
the operations of the planning department;
(b)  to modernize the operations, hardware and software of the recently
created Business Management Department, as regards notably commer-
cial and tariff statistics, tariff management, market analysis and
load research as needed for tariff design;
(c)  to provide training to both FPEPB and MOE staff in the above areas,
notably through overseas study trips;



- 63 -                            ANNEX 3.9
4.        The program encompasses both the Planning and the Business Nanage-
ment Departments (the latter having functions close to that of a Commercial
Department in Western utilities). The business management department has sn
important role to play in the gathering of market data useful for demand anal-
ysis and for the load forecasts of the planning department, and demand analy-
sis and load research programs are needed by the Business Management Depart-
ment for tariff d?i'sign, or to develop other DSM programs, as well as for load
forecasting. The program does not cover tariff design as such.
Sc2pe of WoXk
5.        For both departments the program will include two phases.  The first
phase would include a detailed diagnosis of current operations, methodologies,
hardware and software, and the design of an action plan for proposed improve-
ments. The second phase would cover the implementation of the proposed plan.
6.        Areas to be covered include, inter alia, the following points.
Market Statistics. Demand Analysis. Load Research
(a)  detailed review of current praccices and proposals regarding collec-
tion, consolidation, and computerization of statistics on the elec-
tricity market, covering FPEPB, FPG, the isolated systems, and inde-
pendent generation (capacity, gross and net generation, peak demand,
number of consumers and sales by category of consumers or economic
subsector, and losses); particular attention will be given to losses
in systems supplied in bulk by FPEPB;
(b)  design of specific market analysis tools for the residential sector
(ownership of appliances, distribution of consumption per customer),
taking into account current metering practices, and for the analysis
of electric energy intensity by branch of industry and of its possi-
ble evolution;
(c)  design of load-research programs for tariff design and load-fore-
casting;
(d)  review of current practices and proposals regarding collection,
consolidation, and computerization of commercial statistics on con-
sumers, sales, tariff, and revenues by tariff category (FPEPB, and
power supply bureaus); this analysis should take into account the
possible extension cai time-of-day/seasonal tariffs;
(e)  review of current practices in load forecasting (consumption,
losses, net generation, including seasonal aspects, load curve fore-
casts, problems related to isolated networks and independent genera-
tion); proposals for improvements, notably in terms of load curve
forecasting, assessment of the impact of changes in the economic
structure on the load curve, assessment of the impact of possible
energy conservation measures;



a 64 -                           ANNEX 3-9
Generation lanning
(a) review of current practices, status of computerization, and links
between the Planning Department and other Departments involved in
the planning process;
(b) proposals for improvements of the medium term, multiyear generation
simulation and least-cost investment planning model; focus should
preferably be placed on the optimal operation of hydro plants, main-
tenance scheduling and dispatch of thermal plants, evaluation of
system reliability and discounted cash-flow for alternative invest-
ment programs, rather than on optimization algorithms for the lat-
ter; the output should facilitate the forecast of coal consumption
and expenditures to be used in financial forecasts;
Method and Qrganization
7.        The program will make ample use of the expertise available from
BERIWREP. However, foreign consultancy (about 5 staff-months) is needed to
assist on some of the practical aspects involved in load-research, load curve
forecasts, and planning model. The transfer of know-how will also take place
through overseas study trips, courses or conferences for both FPEPB and MOE
staff.
8.        The program will be carried out by FPEPB with the assistance of the
BERIWREP, in coordination with MOE. It will be coordinated by a senior member
of FPEPB's management. A report would be prepared to present the review of
current practices and the proposed action plan. A shorter report would*p204OXbe
prepared about nine months after, to review the status of implementation.
9.        The schedule is planned as follows:
Startup:                  October 1992
Preliminary Report:        August 1993
Final Report:            December 1993
Implementation Report: September 1994



- 65 -
Annex 4.1
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Installed Capacitv. Generation and Enerav Sales of FPEPB
Installed Capacity (MW)      Energy Generation (rWh)         Energy
Year          Hydro   Thermal  Total        Hydro    Thermal     Total     Sales (GWh)
1965           67.36     73.5     140.86     353.00       251     604.00     609.00
1970          165.30     86.9     252.20     853.00       199    1,052.00    1,021.00
1971          186.60    124.1     310.90     631.00       552    1,183.00    1,139.00
1972          202.90     51.5     254.40     662.00       200     862.00    1,366.00
1973          291.40     65.9     357.30     963.00       287    1,250.00    1,614.00
1974          304.40     56.5     360.90    1,121.00      210    1,331.00    1,465.00
1975          399.40    127.5     526.90    1,297.00      268    1,565.00    1,818.00
1976          399.40    111.0     510.40    1,450.00      288    1,738.00    1,924.00
1977          399.40    158.0     557.40    1,528.00     500    2,028.00    2,249.00
1978          431.90    189.5     621.40    1,687.00      812    2,499.00    2,574.00
1979          462.00    287.7     749.40    1,536.00    1,267    2,803.00    2,857.00
1980          577.00    310.2     887.20    1,765.00    1,404    3,169.00    3,190.00
1981          578.50    303.8     882.30    2,280.00    1,043    3,323.00    3,212.00
1982          578.50    310.9     880.40    2,396.00    1,200    3,596.00    3,475.00
1983          579.50    299.5     878.00    2,629.00    1,052    3,681.00    3,656.00
1984          578.50    396.5     975.00    2,324.00    1,678    4,002.00    3,965.00
1985          559.00    478.0   1,037.00    2,389.00    1,915    4,304.00    4,483.00
1986          531.50    590.5   1,122.00    2,158.00    2,946    5,104.00    5,003.00
1987          634.00    678.0   1,312.00    2,047.00    3,876    5,923.00    5,689.70
1988          709.00    672.0   1,381.00    2,915.00    3,902    6,817.00    6,630.70
1989          784.00    672.0   1,456.00    2,724.55    3,356    6,080.60    7,816.78
1990          859.00    666.0   1,525.00    3,048.00    3,047    6,095.00    8,094.74
Average Growth rates p.a.
1965-70       19.7%     3.4%     12.4%      19.3%     - 4.5%      11.7%      10.9%
1970-75       19.3%     8.0%     15.9%       8.7%      6.1%       8.3%       12.2%
1975-80        7.6%     19.5%    11.0%       6.4%      39.3%      15.2%      11.9%
1980-85      - 0.6%     9.0%      3.2%       6.2%      6.4%       6.3%       7.0%h
1985-90        9.0%     6.9%      8.0%       5.0%      9.7%       7.2%       12.5%
So____rce____ _F____E________
Source: FPEPB



CHINA
Second Shuikou Hydroelectric Prolect
Economic Growth and Bectricity Consumotion In Fuiian - 1980-1990
Growth Rates
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984    985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990 1980/85  1985/90
Industrial and Aori. OutpUt                                                                           --------96-------
Industry               8,411   9,007  9,666  10,520  13,182  16,533  19,072  23,487  30,903  36,050  40,550   14.5    19.7
Light industry        5.178  5,688  6,060  6,450  8,050  10,256  11,859  14,678  19,900 23,650  26,780   14.7    21.2
HeavyIndustry         3,233  3,319  3,606  4,070  5,132  6,277  7,213  8,809  11,003  12,400  13,770   14.2    17.0
Agriculture            4,604  5,076  5,462  5,740  6,539  7,089  7,248  7,904  8,514  9,060  9,465    9.0         6.0
Total                         14,083  15,128  16,260  19,721  23,622  26,320  31,391  39,417 45,110  50,015   12.7    16.2
In Percentaoe           ____ _ __--________
Industry                64.6   64.0   63.9   64.7   66.9   70.0   72.5   74.8   78.4   79.9   81.1
Light Industry         61.5   63.1   62.7   61.3   61.0   62.0   62.2   62.4   64.4   65.6   66.0
Heavy Industry         38.5   36.9   37.3   38.7   39.0   38.0   37.8   37.5   35.6   34.4   34.0
Agriculture             35.4   36.0   36.1   35.3   33.1   30.0   27.5   25.2   21.6   20.1   18.9
Total                   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Eiectrbily ConsumDtlon (GWh
Indust                 3,370  3,571   3,740  3,828  4,295  5,089  5,458  6,219  7,182  8,024  8,361    8.6    10.4
Residentb & Commercial    345    350    404    487    550    657    886  1,096  1,356  1,721  1,922   1&8        23.9
Transports&Conmunictlon   18    24     25      31     42     55     60    102    116    174    230   25.0    33.1
Agricuture               651    708    770    945    979    986  1,042  1,156  1,255  1,483  1,528    8.7         9.2
Total Consumption      4,384  4,653  4,939  5,291   5,866  6,787  7,446  8,573  9,909  11,402  12,041    9.1    12.1
PlantUseandLosses        572    593    779    864    887    934  1,175  1,281  1,505  1,54   1,624   10.3    11.7
Total Generation       4,956  5,246  5,718  6,155  6,753  7,721  8,621   9,854  11,414  12,956  13,665    9.3    12.1
of which FPG          3,907      -      -      -       -  5,889  6,900  7,900  9,360  10,600  11,750    8.6    14.8        x
x
Generation/Yuan of GV1AO    0.38   0.37   0.38   0.38   0.34   0.33   0.33   0.31   0.29   0.29   0.27   -2.8    -3.7       4
t'



CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Generation and Consumption by Cateaory of Customers in the Reaion Suoliled by FPEPB
1980       1985        1986        1987       1988        1989       1990
Generation of FPEPB         3,168.97    4,304.17    5,103.68   5,903.19    6,816.72    6,080.60    6095.30
Station Useof FPEPB          129.85      189.13      284.25      369.69     390.41      333.41    303.91
(%) Station Use of FPEPB       4.10        4.39        5.58        6.24       5.73        5.48      4.99
Net Generation of FPEPB     3,039.12    4,115.04   4,819.43    5,553.50    6,426.31    5,747.19    5791.39
Purchase From Small Hydro    185.42      762.55      507.72     467.75      539.40      462.50    689.32
Purchase From Industrial Plants  69.72     8.73      102.76      133.97      76.91       26.21     16.92
Purchase from Huaneng         -           -          -           -          166.99     2,149.98    2194.24
Total Delivered to FPEPB    3,294.26    4,886.32    5,429.91   6,155.22    7,209.61    8,385.88    8691.87
Network Losses               293.18      402.60      425.99     465.48      578.88      569.10    597.13
k Losses                       8.90        &24         7.85        7.56       8.03        6.79       6.87
Sales of FPEPB              3,001.08    4,483.72   5,003.92    5,689.74    6,630.73    7,816.78   8,094.74
Sales for Agriculture        109.12      215.77      323.55      341.74     403.69      519.63    578.68
For Industry             2,505.60    3,606.38    3,839.35   4,403.36    4,998.50    5,747.07   5,654.42
For Ught Industry         694.35     1,116.53    1,444.07   1,561.51    1,783.60    2,050.84   1,960.95
For Heavy Industry       1,811.25    2,489.85    2,395.28   2,841.85    3,214.90    3,696.23   3,693.47
ForTransp., Commercial     13.78       41.82       51.64       66.78     100.64      153.49     207.14
For Urban LMng, Residen.  372.58      619.75      789.38      877.86    1,127.90    1,396.59   1,654.50
Total Sales                 3,001.08    4,483.72    5,003.92    5,689.74   6,630.73    7,816.78   8,094.74
Supply by own Generation of
lndustriai Plants           188.54      323.33     368.25      387.55      375.04      323.54    361.95
Supply by own Generation of
Small Hydro                 235.78      351.44     695.71      931.76    1,122.63    1,203.44   1,916.98
Total Consumption           3,425.54    5,158.49    6,067.88    7,009.05   8,128.40    9,343.76  10,373.67
x
Js
(A



- 68 -                                 -
2=lINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Demand Forecasts
1.        FPEPB's demand forecasts are established, first, for the Fujian
province as a whole, and for four sectors. Generation forecasts for the
interconnected grid are then established taking into account expected connec-
tions of isolated networks to the grid, and finally, FPEPB's generation and
sales forecasts are obtained taking into account the expected development of
independent generation (mainly mini hydros).
2.        Consumption forecasts for Fujian province are derived from a synthe-
sis of different approaches. FPEPB has been using for several years econome-
tric models distinguishing consumptions of agriculture, industry, residential
and urban, transport and communication.  For the first two sectors, linear
relationships with output value give good correlations in the past, whereas
for the last two, a linear growth model is used. Special loads are added to
the econometric forecasts; however, in order to avoid douible counting, the
only special load taken into account here, is the consumption of the new elec-
tric railway, expected to reach 450 GWh in 1995.
3.        The u'ain issue regarding such econometric models is whether past
relationships between industrial electricity consumption and output value can
be extrapolated far into the future, in a context of fast growth and rapid
structural change. Past trends show significant reductions in energy intensi-
ties in both manufacturing and basic industries in the 80's, but the faster
growth of manufacturing industries also explains the reduction of the aggre-
gate industrial electricity consumption per Yuan of output. A faster develop-
ment of basic industries is expected in coming years and several projects are
under construction or have been approved, which go in this direction. For
individual branches, the reduction of electric energy intensities observed in
the past is also likely to slow down with the modernization of the Fujian
industry; this saturation trend was already observable during the last three
years for manufacturing and basic industries, and, in fact would be reflected
by FPEPB's econometric model which involves a linear relation between consump-
tion and output. The forecast used here for industry implies an elasticity to
output value around 0.93, higher than in the past, yet, significantly lower
than one (table below); the industrial forecast is half-way between the econo-
metric forecast, and a forecast based on a stable aggregate electric energy
intensity.
4.        The aggregate elasticity of electricity generation in Fujian to the
growth of industrial and agricultural output is of 1.1 until 1995, which
reflects the faster growth of residential uses, and the consumption of the new
railway. Total generation requirements for the province are expected to grow
at 10 percent per annum until 1995, and 8.4 percent thereafter, significantly
faster than the planned total for China, but less than the 12.1 percent regis-
tered in the last five years. Demand on the interconnected grid would grow at
12.3 percent until 1995 (likely a little faster in 1992), and 8.8 percent
thereafter, as against 14.8 percent in the last five years. Although a slower



-69 -                                    j4
demand growth cannot be excluded, the possibility of hlgher economic growth
and of higher elasticicies cannot be discounted; for purposes of sensitivity
analysis in the tie-line study, a high sconario was established as follows.
Base case
GVIAO growth (%)                     9.0                8.3
Electricity growth                  10.0                8.4
Elasticity                           1.11               1.02
Hiib Sgenar±
GVIAO growth (%)                    10.4               10.4
Electricity growth                  12.8               10.7
Elasticity                           1.23               1.03
5.        The growth of demand on the interconnected grid assumes the connec-
tion of Ningde and Jiangyang networks before 1995. By then, demand in iso-
lated grids would be reduced from 14 percent to 5 percent of the total. This
contributes to a still vigorous growth of mini-hydro generation in the inter-
connected grid until 1995. Yet, 86 percent of the incremental supply on the
FPG will come from the combined generation of PPEPB and Huaneng, and 48 per-
cent from Shuikou. The weight of FPEPB would increase, whereas in the 80's
FPEPB and Huaneng provided only two thirds of the incremental supply on the
FPG.
6.        The following table gives the detail of generation and sales fore-
casts.



CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
DEMAND TRENDS AND FORECASTS
GROWTH RATES
ECONOMY sIY1                              1980       1985     1990       1995    2000         1980-85   19865-0      1990-95      1995-00
GNP                                       88a0        n.a.   23300      35000    52500              -         -          8.6%        8.4%
GVIAO                                    13015      23622    S0015      77000   114800           12.7%     16.2%         9.0%        8.3%
AGRICULTURE                               4604       7089     9485      12000    14800           9.0%       6.0%        4.9%         3.9%
INDUSTRY                                  8411      16833    40550      es60    10X000          14.5%      19.7%        9.9%         9.0%
POPULATION (x 1000)                      25178          -    30370      33020    35400              -         -          1.7%        1.4%
ELECTRICITY (GWh)                         1980       1985     1990       1995    2000         198085    1985-90      1990-95     1995-0
AGRICULTURE                                651        966     1628       1925    2342            8.7%       9.2%         4.7%        4.0%
INDUSTRY                                  3370      s508      8361      12993    19522           8.6%      10.4%         9.2%        8.5%
RESIDENTIAL & URBAN                        345        657     1922       3768     6306           13.7%     23.9%  *    14.4%        10.8%
TRANSPORT & COMM.                           18         65      230        674      870           25.0%     33.1%        24.0%        5.2%
TOTALCONSUMPTION                          4384       6787    12041      1s360    29040           9.1%      12.1%        10.0%        8.4%
LOS8ES& PLANT USE                          672        934     1624       2640     3960           10.3%     11.7%        10.2%        8.4%
TOTAL GENERATION FUJIAN                   495        7721    13685      22000    33000           9.3%      12.1%        10.0%        8.4%
ELASTICMES
ENERGY INTENSITY (GWhIMY)                 1980       1985     1990       1995    2000         1980-85   195-90       1990-95     1995-00
AGRICULTUREIGVAO                          0.141      0.139    0.181      0.190    0.162          0.99       1.64        097          1.04
INDUSTRYJGVIO                             0.401      0.308    0.208     0.200    0.195           0.59       083         0.93         0.94
RESIDENTUL/GVIAO                          0.027      0.028    0.038     0.049    0.055           1.09       1.48        1.60         1.31
TRANSPORTIGVIAO                           0.001      0.002    0.005      0.009    0.008          1.98       2.05        2.06         o.63
GENERATIONIGVIAO                          0.381      0.327    0.273     0.286    0288            0.73       0.75        1.11         1.02
GENERATIONfCAPITA                          197          -      460        6        932              -       8.0%         8.2%        0.9%
GENERATION A SALES FPEPBtGwh              1980       1985     1990       1995    2000         198045-   1985-00      1990-95      1905-00
ISOLATED SYSTEMS                          1049       1832     101S       1000     1000           11.8%      0.9%       -12.2%        0.0%
TOTAL GENERATION FPG                      3907       S889    11760      21000    32000           8.5%      148%         12.3%        8.8%
INDEPENDENT PRODUCERS                      738       158S     3355       4800     5000           168.5%    18.2%        06%          1.79
GROSS GENERATION FPEPB+HUANENG            3169       4304     83SS      16400    27000           0.3%      14.3%        14.3%       10.5%
(OF WHICH HUANENG)                         (0)       (0)   (2300)
NET GENERATION FPEPS.HUANENG              3039       4116     7986      15736   25715            6.2%      14.2%       14.6%        10.3%
OTHER PURCHASES                            265        771      706        710      710          24.8%      -1.7%        0.1%         0.0%
TOTAL SENT OUT                            3294       4886     8692      16446   26425            82%       12.2%        13.6%        9.9%
LOSSES(%)                                 8.90%      8.24%    6.87%      7.00%    7.00%
3001      4484      8095     15295    24575            5.4%      12.5%       13.6%        9.9%



- 71 -                                         MiX S.1
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Salient Physical Features of the Prolect
Unit                       Description
Location                                                                       on the Mfnjiang River,
84 km from Fuzhou
Catchment area                                            b2                           52,438
Average annual inflow                                    mJ's                           15728
Design flood                                             m3/s                    45,600 (P a 0.1X)
Maximm flood                                             m/s                     54,500 (P * 0.01X)
Reservotr
High water level                                                       67.88 (P a 0.01%) max. fLood
Normal water levol                                    m                            65.00
Level during flood season                             m                            61.00
Reservoir area                                         2                            93.5
km
Total storage capacity                                                              360
Flood regulation                                                       (During flood season at
106in3                 Elevation 65 to 61)
Power generation                                 1O3m3                           700
Available Depth
Flood regulation                                                        4.0 (Elevation 61-65)
Power generation                                   m                    8.0 (Elevation 57-65)
m
Diversion Channel
Length                                                                             15170
Capacity                                                             23,400 (P * 5K), 32200 (P = 2K)
Depth of flowua m5/                                                   35.89 (P a 5K), 38.71 (P * 2X)
Dam                                                      nm                     Concrete gravity dam
Type                                                                               -27.0
Foundation rock level                                                               0 74.0
Crest elevation                                       m                            100.0
Height (maximum)                                      m                            786.0
Crest length                                                                         1.83
Volume                                              10 D
Spil tway                                                                        Overflow spillway
Type                                                                                43.0
Overflow sill elevation                                m                 43,685 (P = 0.1X) Design.
Capacity sm3                                                              51,641 (P  0.01K) Check
Number of gates                                                                      12
Intake                                                                         On the fact of the dam
Type                                                                                 7
Number                                                                          9.2 x 11.25
Control gate size (U x N)
sm                      Embedded pipe/7
Pentock                                                                    81.672 (the length of pressure
Type/nwuber                                                                   pipe is 55.471)
Length (total of each penstock)                                                     10.5
23-29
m
Inside diameter
Thickness of steel
Powerhouse                                                mm                         Overground
Type                                                                        297.2 x 34.5 x 63.55



72-                                         ANNEX  5.1
Unit                          Description
Generation Facilities                                                                      7
Number of units                                                                      200
Units capacity                                      "S
Turbine
Type                                                                                Kaplan
Maximum head                                                                          58
Minimum head                                         m                                30
Design head                                          m                               45.3
Head for dependable output                           m                               45.3
Normal effective head                                m                               45.3
Maximun discharge                                   a                                509
Output tmaximun)                                   m/s                               235
Dependable                                          NW                               204
Rated speed                                          w                               93.8
Generator                                             r.p.m.                Vertical shaft, umbrella type
Type                                                                               222/242
Rated output                                       MVA                               13.8
Rated voLtage                                       kV                              90/95
Power factor
Main Transformer (220 kV)
Type                                                                             Three phase
Rated capacity                                                                       240
Rated voltage range                                MVA                          242+ 5%/13.8
kV
Switchvard
Type of breakers                                                                  Hybrid GIS
Number                                                                              9 bays
Annual Energv Production
Firm energy                                        GWh                              2,100
Secondary energy                                   GWh                              2,850
Total Enerav                                     GWh                             4.950
Quantities of Work (Except diversion and
temporarv work)
Excavation                                             1o6n3                             2.14
Soft rock                                          106X3                             6.65
Hard rock                                          1063                             0.0042
Earth and rockfill                                       A x                            0.315
Concrete                                               10im,                             3.48
Curtain grouting                                       106wm                            13,000
Consolidation grouting                                   m                              32,400
Gates and hoists                                         m                              13,100
Penstocks                                              tons                             4,478
Reinforcing steel                                      tons                             33,900
tons



CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
CORPORATION
Organization Chart
I     GE NS IERAL          E
M MAAGER        l
DEPRTMNT     CONhAC                    MNEPMETYGMANANAG EPT  .MANTA         EPRTTEUPL DEP    SAAERVIE                           AO
DEPUTY CHEEF ENGR. ||A                        DEPUTY NT  E AENG                                                            DEPAYIT EE RECORDS OFFICEN|
SAFETY    ROE    O                                                  L     MTER
AFFAIRS  -OXF-5ARUICVS    l
D |CqMENET                              lCrA
DEPATME           CONTPRACBT  |ANADEPAMIENT                   MAA |E DEPART|MENT                   SUPPLY DEPT. | |LSASBOm               R
CURRECY |    OEPATME                   DEPR   |E  DEARTEN                                                                    DEPAECa    lMrETW
q   LOCAL   l  d B0DGE| POER E                                                ELECTRUCAL  |i F         R 
| TEST     >      q  KTAL WOS   |      LO    M ATE~S |
|GENERA4 .



CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
._______________      _  OWWTQUANITY      1987         1988          1989         1990          1991          1992         1993          1994         1995
ITEM               anwa 1 2 3 4 _  2 3 4 12 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1                                                4  1 2 13 |4 1 3      2 3 4
1. Con..ucdon peparator.y                        *k            .......
2. DIvrsIon works
earth. sand and graVe ock
A Foufadon excavabna of        2 2
dtsIrioAhnduumi             10 m SMI-
DMi_6cd l ol dieo wl l         2 2z sno       l        I           I   I                I  I  I  1          d      ^  I 1  1                  
edng             io2.~~~ m 2                                        B OMs.at U oa(wd9fs       PC Oases.  oOiWdaa ksu dDdDuIomamdUk
C Cosumn    oftoal es cA(Om lam or   |  |  |  |                                                                                      I  a 
D MamAac.hb        of ndu_                                                                 cohdam C2m7  aidvwd a.
diversiwicoed  ae
andceeoopi
3 Dam
Earth sand and gravockod            427088
A Ex-. adlon of dam toumdailn---                                                      
BConcreUng           ,o~2 2  8wL                                                                   -      &mjI
* Eredion of gates ad hoists                                                      |         E dps              I fad baib
spliway teiMe and bottom     T                                                                        -     2         -0
4Pownerhus
A Foundation excavatIon        2 2~0
ear sandand                t:o IS             I               * - -  -  -  -  -  -
(tunnl to pow.aus
andf cablameQ                 2 246
a Concreti                   0o                                                                            --                          ...a
C Emctimofollalragates                                                                                           jI)))4                              ))~
CEw  and     d               T     97|i .A I                                                                    r
o Esocdlon o bal2 lns                 7
and genedwato
6 220kv Swttcyard
A Excmavaon and conareg       122  2fs--                                                            
roduilcsonrt                   em g
B Erection of haases and
7 NavIgatin works
AFoundaUoa excavailon         2 2
mdewWater sand and graeVrodk tO em  8713
BCOwabv                3~~~ 3 2070
hoits nd ut ndde  at
C!= 81egswirdaw"7m7IIII!        IIIIIWade IpaIIInsIII 
ChEOxstsbn^       _L.  !   8i  |8  8               l  ||  |\  ||  i|  8t                       I          Ii11                Iv 



-75 -                             AM    5.4
CHIN
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Resettlement Plan and Implementation Experience
General
1.        The inundation of the Shuikou reservoir area will involve the reset-
tlement of about 67,000 people living in 87 villageu and 16 townships in
Fujian Province. The affected jurisdictions include Nanping City and Gutian,
Youxi and Hinqing counties. About 75 percent of the affected population is
engaged in agriculture. The estimate of the affected population is based on a
survey prepared in 1982, and assumes a 1.4 percent annual increase in popula-
tion until the time of resettlement of each subgroup up to 1991. The geo-
graphical distribution of the population to be resettled, and the physical
assets submerged are as follows:
Nanping   Gutian    Youxi  Minqing        Total
Population Resettled
Townships affected                       8        2         2        4          16
Villages affected                       51       17         9       11          87
Total county/city pop (1982)       396,517  345,320  317,819  245,770  1,305,426
Affected population (1982)          33,983   16,836    5,503    1,393       57,715
of which:  Agricultural (1982)    27,595    9,784    4,C61    1,043         43,033
Projected resettlement (1991)       39,591   19,614    6,411    :.623       67,329
&Ua,La Suba2
Farmland (ha)                        1,193      649       216       34       2,093
of which:  Rice fields (ha)          1,135      569       197       34       1,936
Vegetables (ha)             58        80       19         0         157
Reclaimed wasteland (ha)               367      253        75       44         739
Timber forest (ha)                     123      575        99      187         984
Economic forest (ha) Z&                 94      156         4       21         275
Fruit trees (ha)                        32       13        15        8          68
Dwellings (103 e2)                   1,046      632       217       52       1,947
Collective ' xildings (10' m2)         256      105        32         6        398
Enterprises and institutional
buildings (103 m2)                    95       99        92       18         304
LA  Includes al'l tree crops such as tung oil, tea oil, tea, bamboo, olives,
mulberries, etc.



-76 -                            ANNEX 5-4
Resettlement Organization and Planning
2.        The planning for the resettlement of the population whose assets
will be inundated by the reservoir began in 1979 with a preliminary survey of
the reservoir area population and assets undertaken by ECIDI. In 1980, this
survey was reviewed by the Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
(MWREP) and the Government of the Province of Fujian (GPF). On May 14, 1982,
the State Council issued a "Statute for Land Requisition for Construction Use
by the State." In response thereto the GPF established the Shuikou Hydro-
electric Project Resettlement Planning Team. This team of 63 persons worked
for 10 months with planning groups from tthe three affected counties and
Nanping city to resurvey the affected areas and produce a 'Report on Resettle-
ment Planning for the Shuikou Hydroelectric Station." This report was
accepted by MWREP and GPF in 1984, and formed the basis for detailed budget
estimates and further preparations. The implementation of the resettlement
plan is the responsibility is the responsibility of the Shuikou Reservoir
Resettlement Office (SRRO) under GPF which works together with SHPC, provin-
cial authorities and county/city governments, to implement the resettlement
plan.
PrinciRles for Resettlement
3.        The resettlement and compensation of the affected population is
based on principles set down in such documents as the State Council's 1982
'Status for Land Requisition for Construction Use by the State," the NWREP's
1983 "Methods for Dealing with Reservoir Inundation and Resettlement for
Large- and Medium-Scale Hydroelectric Projects" and the Fujian Provinicial
Government's 1983 "Provincial Stipulations Regarding Resettlement Plans for
Large- and Medium-Scale Reservoir in Fujian."
4.        Following the above documents and the current administrative
practice of the provincial government, the basic principles of resettlement
were initially established as follows:
(a)  Compensation for dwelling to be based on the 1 in 20-year flood
level.
(b)  Compensation for agricultural land to be based on the 1 in 20-year
flood level. As the major crop in this area is rice, which can
withstand several days' inundation, this standard is reasonable.
(c)  Displaced persons and facilities to be reestablished in the nearest
available sites within their respective counties and, if possible,
their original townships.
(d)  To the extent possible, resettled persons to be enabled to continue
with the previous occupations.
(e)  Resettlement to be arranged so that physical and human resources can
continue to be at least as productive and living conditions at least
as convenient, as they were before.
(f)  Plot sizes for resettled farmers to meet minimum standards so as to
enable the rarmers to continue making a living on the land.



77                             AHN  5.4
(g) During c transition period, the provincial government to supplement
the agricultural production of farmers with grain as required.
(h)  Public facilities to be reconstructed at least to the preexisting
standards.
(i)  The supply of construction materials (steels, lumber and cement) for
reconstruction of dwellings, buildings and other facilities to be
given priority.
(j)  Compensation for dwellings, house plots, lost wages and moving
expenses to be paid to heads of households. Compensation for
productive assets and infrastructure to be paid to the local
(village) government with jurisdiction.
(k) Local governments to be involved in resettlement planning from the
outset, with affected population informed after final project
approval.
(i)  To the extent possible, the integrity of neighborhoods and hamlets
to be maintained in the resettlement process.
(m) Resettled persons to be allowed to return to the reservoir area to
plant and harvest crops aad salvage materials until their lands are
flooded.
(n)  To the extent possible, individual households to be given a range of
choices in regard to:
(i) design of dwellings;
(ii) availability of construction materials at officials prices;
(iii) opportunity to buy additional construction materials at market
prices;
(iv) quality of dwelling;
(v)  building contractor; and
(vi) disposal of materials of old home.
T=Js,%entation of Resettlement
5.        Resettlement activities began in earnest in parallel with the _on-
struction of the dam. However, two years into implementation it became evi-
dent that it would be difficult to meet the first resettlement target of
32,000 people by March 31, 1990, dictated by those at risk from the 1 in 20
year flood under the Stage II river diversion configu'ation. The prime reason
for this was that site preparation and infrastructure works in the resettle-
ment areas were carried out for all three resettlement stages, before com-
mencement of house construction. This work began late, and took longer than
planned. Secondly, construction was becoming ccnstrained by budgetary
allocation which was based on 1983 prices.



- 78 -AEX 5.4
6.        In response to this delay, FPEPB modified their original target to
cover the population at risk from a 1 in 10 year flood (16,100 people), and
derived contingency plans which would come into effect if larger floods
occurred. MOE and SEIC approved an increase in resettlement budget from
Y 410 million, based on 1984 prices, to Y 880 million, based on 1989 prices,
and agreed to make further adjustments as necessary to cover inflation beyond
1988. The Bank also agreed to a reallocation of $10 million of the first loan
to finance resettlement materials. With these measures, the reduced target
for March 31, 1990 was met, and resettlement was generally back on schedule by
late 1990. The second target, dictated by the Stage III diversion configura-
tion, resettlement of 55,000 people by April 1992 flood season was also met.
The remaining population of 10,000 are scheduled to relocate during 1992, and
it appears that this schedule can comfortably be met.
7.        Reestablishment of production systems was also delayed for the same
reasons as outlined above, but is also back on schedule. By December 1991,
percentage completion of various systems in comparison with end of project
targets was:
247,400 ducks                                    97.7
30,652 pigs                                      88.8
810.3 mu of pond fisheries                       85.0
2,235 sheep                                      (not in plan)
163,873 mu of forestry                           104.0
37,090 mu of fruit trees and tea bushes          72.0
2,418 mu of vegetable garden                     73.0
7,860 mu of bamboo                               54.0
584 mu of land reclamation                       70.0
500 mu of land reclamation elsewhere in
province for supplementary grain production
103 enterprises in operation employing
3,052 workers                                  76.0
Note: Figures for ducks and pigs are May 1991 figures. Figures later in year
are less as animals are sold.
8.        The Bank carried out full reviews of the resettlement process in
April 1991 (mid-term review) and July 1991 (appraisal of Shuikou 2). In both
cases, the mission's assessment of resettlement already completed was very
positive. The April mission reported "The mission was impressed by the sub-
stantial progress that was seen in the areas that were visited. Theri has
been a noticeable commitment to provide the extra financial, technical and
administrative resources needed to ensure that the project will meet its tar-
gets. Progress in the development of new production systems was visible in
all of the sites, and in several areas resettlers were already drawing income
from their replacement farms and enterprises. Occupatlon rates in the new
towns were high; schools were full, small stores were active, and public
infrastructure was largely completed and operational. Integrated farming sys-
tems involving forests, fruit trees, vegetable gardens, pigs and duck farms



-79-                             ANNEX 5.4
that maximize the efficient use of resources, were widespread and form the
model for developing new sites. Officials in all of the sites that were
visited were well informed about resettlement progress, and were aware of day
to day performance as well as many of the more general issues. Although a
sustained high-intensity effort on resettlement will continue to be required
under Shuikou II to overcome the delays described by previous Bank missions,
the mission's overall conclusion is that substantial progress is being made."
9.        The July mission (different resettlement specialist) reported:
"Impressirns from visual observations by the mission of selected resettlement
villages and townships are very positive. An impressive amount of infrastruc-
ture, housing, land levelling and planting has been completed in the areas
visited, and a few new industrial facilities were observed. Construction
seems to have been of good quality. Many people have already been located.
Facilities were in productive use. Except for heavy erosion in some exposed
areas, the villages and townships visited seemed to be pleasant active
communities that generally were in qu. -e good condition.  Resettlers old
houses in the reservoir areas had been u solished except for some sod walls.
However, people in these villages and tow,ships were still intensively using
reservoir area farm land and in a few placca even land formerly occupied by
structures had been recla;.ed for temporary cultivation before impounding."
10.       Despite these positive impressions of resettlement achievements,
both missions expressed reservations concerning two matters:
(a) the approach to monitoring and reporting of physical progress did
not provide intermediate milestones and performance, such that an
independent evaluation of progress in completion of the physical
works could be made; and
(b) even if resettlement activities were to be physically completed
before impounding, the possibility of individual hardship would
still exist because of the delay in new production systems (e.g.,
fruit trees, fishing) reaching full production. It was noted that
the sense of well being of current resettlers was partly due to the
fact that they were still generating income from their land within
the reservoir area.
11.       As the date for reservoir impounding draws close, the first reserva-
tion appears to have been overtaken by events, in that it seems highly likely
that the overall target of completion of physical resettlement activities by
the end of 1992 will be met.
Independent Evaluation of Resettlement
12.       In any case, during appraisal of Shuikou II, the Bank decided to
shift the emphasis of monitoring to end results of the resettlement effort,
rather than physical works. It was agreed that the previously planned Inde-
pendent Evaluation of Resettlement (IER), which was largely intended as a
post-project evaluation, would be commenced earlier, with the intention of
providing timely warning to Government authorities of problems in reestablish-
ment of income or general welfare. The IER will be based on a sampling method
with a -overage of 15 to 20 percent of resettlers. Indicators monitored will
be the following:



- 80-                             MNEX 5.4
(a)  Social and Economic Status (inductive assets, living amenities,
fixed assets, income);
(b)  Public Health (facilities in resettlement sites, health education,
infant morbidity, children's health);
(c)  Opportunities for Women (occupation rate, involvement in public and
political affairs, lifestyle);
(d)  Welfare of Various Occupations (aimed at identifying particular
groups requiring assistance).
13.       The contract for the IER was awarded to ECIDI and signed in December
1991. The evaluation will extend over the period 1992 to 1996. In 1992 and
1993, reports will be submitted in July and December, and thereafter in
December of each year.
Funding of Resettlement Beyond ImRlenentation Period
14.       Beyond the project implementation period, the Government will con-
tinue its financial support to help resettlers fully reestablish their
standard of living. The two main funding source., are the Reservoir Area Fund
collected from power revenue at the rate of Y 0.001 kWh (about Y 5 million per
year), and a reservoir development fund, provided for under a newly promul-
gated State Council directive *Compensation for Land Acquisition for Construc-
tion and Rep  tlement of Inhabitants Relating to Large and Medium Hydropower
and Water Conservancy Projects." This directive establishes principles only,
and requires more specific regulations at the provincial level.
15.       Assurances will be sought that the Government will monitor the
reports of the IER, take action to accelerate the reestablishment of income
and welfare in identified problem areas, and make funds available from Reser-
voir Area and Reservoir Development Funds or other sources, to sustain incomes
at acceptable levels until they are fuily restored.



-81 -ANNEX   5
CHIN
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Major Environmental ImRactg and Environmental Management Elan
HajLox IM2acts
1.        The major impact of the construction of the dam and reservoir is the
displacement of some 67,000 people. The resettlement plan, aimed at reestab-
lishing these people in accordance with Bank policy guidelines is discussed in
Annex 5-A.
2.        Of other impacts, some are potentially favorable and some unfavor-
able. The major impacts are discussed in the following paragraphs, together
with measures included in the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) aimed at
maximizing exploitation of favorable impacts, and minimizing the effects of
unfavorable impacts.
Avoidance of Thermal Generation
3.        Even with maximum conservation efforts, large additions to electric-
ity generation capacity will be required to accompany China's economic devel-
opment. In Fujiat. province, the alternative to hydroelectric developments is
coal fired plant. The "avoided" adverse impacts include:
(a) the use of coal to the extent of some 1.6 million tons/year;
(b) land use associated with coal mining of 300 ha per year, and associ-
ated with a thermal plant of about 1000 ha. In ten years land usage
would be about equal to that of the Shuikou reservoir; and
(c) each year, 65,000 tons of gaseous and particle emissions, 500,000
tons of solid waste, and 125,000 tons of water usage.
Effects on Navigation
4.        At present navigation on the river is limited to boats of 60 to 80
tons. Creation of the reservoir will enable ships of up to 500 tons to navi-
gate 94 km upstream to Nanping city. Minimum flow increase will also assist
downstream navigation, such that 500 ton ships may travel from the ocean to
Nanping, and connect Fuzhou and Nanping. the dam will include a shiplock and
a 500 ton shiplift, enabling long term projected annual freight of 4.0 million
tons and timber of 2.0 to 2.5 million en, to be passed with a comfortable
margin. In general, this transportation by water is expected to replace
transportation by road, which is projected to result in savings in diesel fuel
consumption of some 48 million liters per year. This, in turn, should result
in reduced emissions of 120,000 tons of CO2, 3,500 tons of noxious gases and
200 tons of particulates.
5.        Incroased navigation will, however, increase the risk of accid&.ts
anLd spillages. To guard against these risks, navigation supervision stations



-82-                             ANN    5.5
will be set up at Nanping, Shuikou and Fuzhou. These stations will be respon-
sible for guaranteeing raft traffic, establishing and maintaining navigation
marks, handling and investigation of accidents, and for supervision of load-
ing, unloading and transportation of explosives, toxic and radioactive goods.
Procedures are laid down in the inland waterway traffic safety management
regulations, the rules for supervision and management of ships carrying haz-
ardous cargoes, and the regulations for certifying ships entering or exiting
inland waterways. Release of contaminants from ships shall be within limits
stipulated in state standard GB 83552-83, and ships of 200 tons or greater
shall be equipped with oil-water separators to prevent discharge of oily
waste.
6.   During dam construction, there is some potential for navigation disrup-
tion, since during third stage diversion (as existing in 1992), the river is
passed through temporary openings in the spillway structure. Under high dis-
charges, flow velocities are such as to impede navigation of smaller boats.
To correct this, temporary locks have been incorporated into two of the open-
ings. Also, during the reservoir impoundment period, which may be up to three
months, navigation through the damsite will not be possible. Current planning
assumes that approximately half of normally occurring shipments can be brought
forward or delayed to avoid the impoundment period. The other half will be
transported by railway, or around the dam by truck. Passengers will be trans-
ported around the dam by vehicles included in the pro3ect budget. Amounts
have also been allowed in the budget, for alternative transportation costs,
and losses due to short term suspension of shipping.
Effect on Fishing
7. Extensive investigations carried out by Fujian Aquatic Production Bureau,
indicate 163 species of fish in the Minjiang River. However, the river sec-
tion upstream of the damsite contains only a few species and present fish
catches are nominal. There are no fish species with major migrations through
the damsite. During the appraisal of Shuikou 1, it was understood that the
creation of the reservoir could have a significant effect on eel migration and
production, with detrimental effects to the lucrative export industry. Clari-
fications obtained during the appraisal of Shuikou 2 indicate that this is not
the case. All eels for export, and most of those for local consumption, are
artificially raised in off stream breeding ponds. In the Xinjiang itself,
eels are relatively unimportant, accounting for only 4.3 percent of fish
catches. Noreover, most of their habitats are in the 129 km stretch of the
river downstream of Shuikou, aind the downstream Dazhang Creek tributary. The
Aquatic Production Bureau has concluded that construction of the dam will have
no significant effect on eel migration or production, and that the provision
for upstream transport of eel fry is unnecessary.
8. On the other hand, the creation of the reservoir is expected to have a
very beneficial effect on overall fish production. Species adapted to still
or slow moving water will emerge as the dominant group. Based on experience
in other reservoirs in eastern China, fish yields from the reservoir proper
are expected to reach 420 tons/year. Additioral production will also be gen-
erated by the development of 5,000 mu of water surface in coves and bays
around the shoreline, for intensive fish farming. Experience in other reser-
voirs in Fujian province with these methods suggest that additional production
of some (currently being clarified) 235 tons/year could be achieved. Detailed
.



-83-                                    5.5
planning for development of this industry is underway in both Gutian and
Nanping counties, where ideal conditions for this type of fish production
exist.
Water Qualt
9.   Large reservoirs can have significant adverse effects on river water
quality, causing aquatic weed proliferation due to reservoir eutrophication,
anoxic and low temperature discharges due to anaerobic decomposition and res-
ervoir stratification, and entrapment of sediments and organic matter. These
conditions can be detrimental to downstream fishing and agriculture. However,
in the case of Shuikou, these effects are not expected to be significant,
since the reservoir volume is small in relation to the flow of the Minjiang
River, and a high rate of reservoir flushing exists. Average detention time
in the reservoir is about 15 days, reducing to 1.5 days during the average
annual flood. In fact, Shuikou is expected to have a positive effect on down-
stream agriculture and fisheries, since minimum dry season flows will be
increased, reducing salt water intrusion into the estuary.
10.       There are, however, three water quality issues which have been iden-
tified and addressed in the EMP:
(a) Municipal and industrial wastewater inflows into the reservoir,
mainly from Nanping City, could adversely affect water quality,
possibly reducing potential benefits from fish production. There-
fore, in 1986, Nanping City embarked on a major program to treat
existing industrial sources. By 1990, total investment had reach
Y 28.6 million, involving 65 projects. A large component of the
investment was devoted to the Nanping Pulp and Paper Mill (largest
in China) where one of two planned treatment plants has been
installed, and the other is under construction. The EMP details
substantial improvements in effluent and river watar quality due to
this program. In parallel, Nanping City strengthtened the regulatory
functions of the Nanping Environment Protection Bureau, such that
wastewater treatment is a mandatory component of new industries.
(b) The creation of the reservoir, and change in flow conditions will
have some effect on the assimilative capacity of the biological
environment (probably to increase it). To determine the net effect
of this change, and to establish parameters for regulation of efflu-
ent discharge into the river, a mathematical model of the reservoir
is being developed and calibrated based on currently observed condi-
tions. Based on experience from other reservoirs, water quality
conditions within the reservoir are expected to be suitable for
intensive fish production.
(c) One intake for Nanping water supply, which is in the reservoir
impoundment area, will be moved upstream of it, to prevent potential
contamination from nearby waste water discharges.
Sediment Considerations
11.       The catchment of the Ninjiang River is well vegetated, with vegeta-
tion cover rate estimated at 60 percent and soil water erosion area estimated



-84 -                            ANNEX L.5
at only about 5 percent of the catchment area. As a result, sediment passing
the damsite amounts to only 7.18 million tons, representing a very low erosion
modulus of 137 tons/km2/year. Matheoatical models of the sedimentation pro-
cess in the reservoir, indicate a storage loss of only 3.4 percent in the
first 30 years of operation, and a dead storage life of at least 500 years.
12.       Bedload delivery to the reservoir is also estimated to be low, par-
ticularly because of trapping by several upstream reservoirs. Nevertheless,
deposition will be monitored particularly at the head of the reservoir, to
provide early warning of any backwater effects having implications with
respect to flood control of Nanping City.
13.       Because of the limited trap efficiency of the Shuikou reservoir,
downstream erosion effr'ts due to sediment deficient discharges, are also
expected to be insignificant.
Health Issues
14.       Due to long term programs aimed at vector eradication and disease
prevention, the incidence of water related diseases, which could be encouraged
by the creation of new bodies of standing water, is low. Schistosomiasis was
eradicated from the province in 1977. Filariasis monitoring programs indi-
cated no positive results in 1990, and malaria incidence was below 1 in 10,000
in all four counties. These factors, together with the rapid turnover of the
reservoir, support the conclusion of the local health authoritles that the
project will not lead to the spread of water related diseases.
15.       In construction camps and resettlement areas, water supply, sanitary
facilities and medical facilities represent a considerable improvement from
previously existing facilities, such that improvements in community health
standards are expected as a result of the project. The Independent Evaluation
of Resettlement will monitor this aspect.
16.       Before the filling of the reservoir the reservoir will be cleared of
tombs, toilets, livestock habltatlons and trees, to minimize impacts on water
quality during the early stages of reservolr filling.
Constructio_ Facilities and Resettlement Areas
17.       Quarry, spoll and work areas have been designed to minimize
encroachment on agricultural land and the river. Designs and specifications
for erosion protection and rehabilitation were reviewed by the province Water
and Soil Conservation Committee and the Environmental Protection Bureau,
before incorporation in the civil works contract documents. Living quarters
for the 3,500 people working at the site are of good quality, and associated
facilities are of high standard. Comprehensive programs to control soil ero-
sion in the newly created resettloment areas are underway. Measures to con-
trol serious erosion are expected to be completed by 1992, with the areas
fully controlled by the year 2000. Effluent water quallty from the resettle-
ment areas is being controlled as described earlier.
TransMission Linen



- 85 -                            AEX 5.
18.       The FPEPB transmission expansion program is not part of the project
and is only partly attributable to it. Nevertheless, its environmental impact
has been investigated. Total length of transmission line is 793 km, which
displaces 32 ha of forests, 360 fruit trees, and 2,300 e2 of houses. These
represent only a small proportion of assets submerged by the Shuikou reservoir
(Annex 5-&), and since they are less concentrated, they are easier to deal
with. Similar principles to those laid down for the overall resettlement plan
will apply.
Monitoring
19.       Monitoring of physical progress of resettlement is carried out by
the SRO. Social and welfare aspects of the resettlement will be monitored as
part of the IER. The FPEPB will carry out monitoring of reservoir water qual-
ity and sediment deposition. Other areas requiring monitoring, such as
health, water supplies, soil conservation, fishery production, navigation
control, will be carried out by the appropriate provincial and county authori-
ties as part of their routine responsibilities.



- 86 -Annex 5.6
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Table 1. SHUIKOW HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
ORIGINAL SCOPE
Detalted Cost Table
RMB
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
USS
c-sssssaa_Sa-s
F.Exch      Local       Taxes       Total
........................ ...................................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
.......... ................
A. PRELIMINARY WORK
PRELIMINARY WORK                    0   38236585           0   38236585
RESETTLEMENT COMPENSATION           0   197245474          0   197245474
RESETTLEMENT MATERIALS       10000000           0          0    10000000
...........    ................. ...........    .................. .........................
Sub-Total                     10000000   235482059          0  245482059
B. CIVIL & ASSOCIATED WORKS
DIVISION WORK                26094423    15733738          0   41828161
DAM & INTAKE WORKS           58079832    28098545          0   86178377
POWERHOUSE                   25533255    12334111          0   37867366
SWITCHYARDS                   1564074     866677           0    2430751
NAVIGATION                   20839023    9551095           0   30390118
VARIATION WORK                5838694    3096513           0    8935207
PRICE ESCALATION              6399899    3690998           0    10090897
...........    ................. ...........    ................. ........................
Sub-Total                    144349201    73371676          0   217720877
C. METAL WORKS
STEEL PLATE,LARGE BEARING    5627412            0          0    5627412
ANGLE STEEL & STRIP STEEL     1218015           0          0     1218015
STEEL SHAPES                   294333           0          0      294333
SEAMLESS TUBING, ETC.         1076465           0          0     1076465
I-STEELS                           0      253700           0      253700
POWERHOUSE BRIDGE CRANES            0     1380640          0     1380640
DAM CREST GANTRY CRANE              0      626482          0      626482
TAILRACE GANTRY CRANE               0      135150          0      135150
GATES AND SCREENS                   0    5817580           0    5817580
HOISTS FOR INTAKES                 0      554597           0      554597
HYDRAULIC HOISTS                    0     1258850          0     1258850
........ ............. ........ .................. ...........  .................. .....
Sub-Total                      8216225    10026999          0    18243224
0. ELEC. & MECH. WORKS
TURBINES 1&2, GOVRS. iTO7   13707200           0           0    13707200
GENS.1&2, EXCITRS.1 TO 7    13384250            0          0    13384250
UNITS 3,4,5,6,7                     0   46356431           0   46356431
UNIT AUTOMATIC COMPONENT       545432           0          0      545432
GENS'. 13.8KV BREAKERS        4887750           0          0    4887750
AUXILIARIES FOR UNITS               0    17743399          0    17743399
TRANSFORMERS                       0     5113052           0    5113052
SWITCHGERS & AUXILIARIES            0    3102232           0    3102232
CONTROL SYSTEM                6901500           0          0    6901500
LOCAL TRANS. & ERECTION             0    14881621          0    14881621
500KV TRANSMISSION LINES            0           0          0           0
~~~~~...........  ........ .  ........   .....
Sub-Total                    39426132    87196735           0   126622868
E. ENG. & CONSTN. SUPERVW.        8930212    24657542           0   33587754
F. ADMINISTRATION                       0    11580512           0    11580512
G. TECH. ASSIST. & TRAINING
STUDY                         1391619           0          0     1391619
TRAINING                      1903080     957336           0    2860416
......... ..... ........... ...........  .................. ...........
Sub-Total                      3294698     957336           0    4252035
........................... .............. ...........  .................. ...........
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              214216469  443272859           0  657489328
UUU 6         --musms 683 S3 =  a868   =38U685
Total                            214216469  443272859           0  657489328
7/28/1992 7:19



- 87 -                                        Annex 5.6
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Table 2. SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
ADDITIONAL SCOPE
Detafled Cost Table
RNS  q,
*reakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
US$
_ _ uuusumunua auuuuuu
F.Exch      Local      Taxes      Total
............................................
t. !NVESTMENT COSTS
..... ...... ...
A. CIVIL & ASSOCIATED WORKS
NAVIGATION DESIGN CHANGE     4837270    2230099           0    7067369
B. MIETAL WORKS
LIFTSHIP LOCAL MATERIAL            0    1638528           0    1638528
LIFTSHIP FOREGIN MATERIAL    7800182           0          0    7800182
LIFTSHIP LOCAL FABRICA'            0    2323205           0    2323205
LIFTSHIP LOCAL EQUIPMENT           0    7129563           0    7129563
LIFTSHIP FOREGIN EOUIPMET    6504283          0           0    6504283
....... ;... ....... . ..... ................. .......... .............. ........
Sub-Total                    14304466   11091296           0   25395761
C. ELEC. & NECH. WORKS
GRID AUTOMATIC SYSTEM        5797411           0          0    5797411
..........    ............... ..........    ............... ................ .....
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              24939146   13321395           0  38260540
amuama  umuuuuuu= vmumuau  uSuuauuu
TotaL                            24939146   13321395           0  38260540
7/28/1992  7:20



CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Summry Accouats Cost Summary
RHB                                      USS                                     X Total
.-.---....................-.-.-..----.   ------------------------------------       X Foreign         Base
Local      foreign        Total         Locat     Foreign       Total        Exchange        Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
...................
A. PRELIMINARIES
1. PREPARATORY WORKS            146856000           0    146856000       27045304           0   27045304                0            4
2. Resettlweant Coapensatfon   873281000      54300000    927581000      160825230    10000000  170825230               6           28
...................................................  -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -  --------------------------...... 
Sub-Total                         1020137000    54300000   1074437000       187870534    10000000   197870534              5           33
B. Civil & Associated Uorks
1. ICS CIVIL WORKS             354533839   M7827693   1127361532         65291683   142325542  207617225               69           34
C. NETAL MORKS
1. HATERIAL PROCMREMENT          8200o0o     77194102    85394102         1510129    14216225    15726354              90            3
2. MAMUFACTURINGS               88568339     27150000    115718339       16310928    5000000    21310928            .  23            4
.... ..... . ...............,,....,,. ..............   . -.-.-.-..----.-.-.......-------------  ._------------------------.
Sub-Total                          96768339    104344102   201112441        17821057   19216225   3703 7282               52            6
0. ELEC. & NECH WORKS
1. UITS & AUXILIARIES          316221000    169291110   485512110        58235912    31177000   89412912               35           15
2. TRANSfRMERS & SWITCIIEAR     40780000            0    40780000         7510129           0     7510129               0            1
3. COITRLX SYSTEM                      0     62770800    62770800               0    11560000    11560000             100            2
4. LOCAL TRANSP. & ERECTION      735000             0    73500000        13535912           0    13535912               0            2                       1
5. TRANSMISSIOU LINES                  0            0            0              0           0           0               0            0
-- - --*----    --- *   -------*-* -*------ *- *- *--- -- -- -- -- -- -------- -------   -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -
Sub-Total                         430501000   232061910   662562910         79281952   42737000   122018952               35           20
E. EIG. A CONSTh. SUPERVI.        108730675     45335525    154066200       20024065     8349084    28373149              29            5
f. ADMINISTRATION                  50348900            0     50348900        9272357           0    9272357                0            2
G. TECN. ASSIST. & TRAINING         4669640     16216660     20886300         859971     2986494     3846464              78            1
Total BASELINE COSTS             20656db393   1225085890   3290775282      380421619   225614344   606035964              37          100
Physical Contingencies          55854001     48867537    104721538       10286188    8999546    19285734               47            3
Price Contingencies              55726530   -46149366      9517164       65886446    4541724    70428170                6           12
Total PROJECTS COSTS             21M69924   1227804061   3405073984        456594254   2391556 ,  695749868               34          115
........... .................... ,...... .......... .... ...... .. .. ............................. ....................................................... ..................................._
7i28/192 T:23
*



CNINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SECOND PHASE (1991 costs)
Table 1. SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
ORIGINAL SCOPE
Detailed Cost Table
RuB
Base Costs
1985-91         1992         1993          1994         1995        Total
1. INVESTMENi COSTS
. ... ....    ...
A. PRELIMINARY WORK
PRELIMINARY WORK                     0      12000000     15000000     15000000      15000000     57000000
RESETTLEMENT COMPENSATION            0    127040000             0             0            0    127040000
RESETTLEMENT MATERIALS               0             0            0             0            0            0
-- - -- - -    -- -- -- --   -- -- -- --   -- -- -- --   --- --- ---   .--...--...-------..-  . .
Sub-Total                             0    139040000      15000000     15000000      15000000    184040000
B. CIVIL & ASSOCIATED WORKS
DIVERSION UORK                        0      247u6,9       841650             0            0      3312300
DAN & INTAKE WORKS                   0      73929450     50401260             0            0    124330710
POWERHOUSE                           0      25792500     39888780      6016440             0     71697720
SWITCHYARD 220KV & 500KV             0        407250       407250       407250        407250      1629000
NAVIGATION                           0       7797480    124765110      15605820            0    148168410
VARIATION WORK                       0             0            0             0            0            0
PRICE ESCALATION                     0             0            J             0            0            01
Sub-Totat                              0    110397330    216304050     22029510        407250    349198140
C. METAL WORKS                             0      4072500            0             0            0      4072500
0. ELEC. & MECH. WORKS
TURBINES 1&2, GOVRS. 1T07            0       1297770     18114480      5039040       1536690     25987980
GENS.1&2, EXCITRS.1 TO 7              0     18597750     13194900      5104200       1411800     38308650
UNITS 3,4,5,6,7                       0     22500000     45000000     43000000             0    110500000
UNIT AUTOMATIC COMPONENT             0       2715000            0             0            0      2715000
GENS . 13.8KV BREAKERS               0       2172000     10860000      3801000       1384650     18217650
AUXILIARIES FOR UNITS                0      70575000            0            0             0     70575000
TRANSFORMERS                         0       2500000     12700000      6800000             0     22000000
SUITCHGERS & AUXILIARIES             0       3500000      4200000            0             0      7700000
CONTROL SYSTEM                       0       2470650     21448500      8145000             0     32064150
LOCAL TRANS. & ERECTION              0      11000000     20000000     13000000       2000000     46000000
500KV TRANSMISSION LINES              0            0            0            0             0            0
Sub-Total                             0    137328170    145517880      84889240       6333140    374068430
E. ENG. & CONSTN. SUPERVN.                 0     26400000     15270000      15900000     15900000     73470000
F. ADMINISTRATION                         0       4500000      9000000      8270000       8000000     29770000
G. TECH. ASSIST. & TRAINING
STUDY A,B,C                          0        716760      1629000            0             0      2345760
TRAINING                             0       1517000      3412000      i100000       1100000      7129000
Sub-Total                             0       2233760      5041000      1100000   k 1100000        9474760
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                        0    423971760    406132930    147188750      46740390   1024033830
===..===== == ==== ==:===   =:===========          ============
TotaL                                      0    423971760    406132930    147188750      46740390   1024033830
7/22/1992 11:51



CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SECOND PHASE (1991 costs)
Table 1. SNUIKOU NYOROELECTRIC PROJECT
ORIGINAL SCOPE
Detailed Cost Tabte
RHO
Base Costs in USS
1985-91        1992        1993         1994        1995       Total
.......... ................................ ...................................................
INVESTNENT COSTS
................
A. PRELIMINARY WORK
PRELIMINARY WORK                     0     2209945     2762431     2762431      2762431    10497238
RESETTLEMENT COHPENSATION            0    23395948           0            0           0    23395948
RESETTLEMENT MATERIALS               0           0           0            0           0           0
... ........ ..... ..............    .............----------    -- - - - -   -- - - - -   ----------
Sub-Total                             0    25605893     2762431     2762431      2762431    33893186
B. CIVIL & ASSOCIATED WORKS
DIVERSION UORK                       0      455000      155000            0           0      610000
DAM & INTAKE WORKS                   0    13615000     9282000            0           0    22897000
POWERHOUSE                           0     4750000     7346000      1108000           0    13204000
SWITCHYARD 220KV & 500KV            0        75000       75000       75000        75000      300000
NAVIGATION                           0     1436000    22977000     2874000            0    27287000
VARIATION WORK                       0           0           0            0           0           0
PRICE ESCALATION                     0           0           0            0           0           0                                                   0
Sub-Total                            0    20331000    39835000      4057000        75000    64298000
C. METAL WORKS                            0      750000           0            0           0      750000
D. ELEC. & KECH. WORKS
TURBINES 182, GOVRS. lT07           0       239000     3336000      928000       283000     4786000
GENS.1&2, EXCITRS.1 TO 7             0     3425000     2430000      940000       260000     7055000
UNITS 3,4.5,6,7                      0     4143646     8287293     7918969            0    20349908
UNIT AUTOMATIC COMPONENT             0      500000           0            0           0      500000
GENS$. 13.8KV BREAKERS              0       400000     2000000      700000       255000     3355000
AUXILIARIES FOR UNITS                0    12997238           0            0           0    12997238
TRAUSFORMERS                        0       460405     2338858     1252302            0     4051565
SUITCHGERS & AUXILIARIES            0       644567      773481           0            0     1418048
CONTROL SYSTEM                       0      455000     3950000      1500000           0     5905000
LOCAL TRANS. & ERECTION              0     2025783     3683241     2394107       368324     8471455
500KV TRANSMISSION LINES             0           0           0            0           0           0
Sub-Total                            0    25290639    26798873    15633378       1166324    68889214
E. ENG. & CONSTN. SUPERVN.                0     4861878     2812155     2928177      2928177    13530387
F. ADMINISTRATION                         0      828729     1657459      1523020     1473297     5482505
G. TECH. ASSIST. & TRAINING
STUDY A,8,C                         0       132000      300000           0            0      432000
TRAINING                            0       217374      628361      202578      202578      1312891
Sub-Total                            0       411374      928361      202578       202578     1744891
total INVESTMENT COSTS                      0    78079514    74794278    27106584       8607807   188588182
Total                                     0    78079514    74794278    27106584      8607807   188588182
7/22/1992 11:51



CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SECOND PIIASE (1991 costs)
Table 1. SHUIKOW HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
ORIGINAL SCOPE
Detailted Cost rable
RMB
Totals Inctuding Contingencies
1985-91         1992         1993          1994         1995        Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
..... ............. ...
A. PRELININARY WORK
PRELIMINARY WORK                      0     12978000     17112375      17967994     18866393     66924762
RESETTLEMENT COMPENSATION             0    137393760            0             0            0    137393760
RESETTLEMENT MATERIALS                0            0            0             0            0            0
Sub-Total                              0    150371760     17112375      17967994     18866393    204318522
S. CIVIL & ASSOCIATED WORKS
DIVERSION WORK                        0      2672032       960216             0            0      3632248
DAN & INTAKE WORKS                    0     83762816     60239628             0            0    144002444
POWERHOUSE                            0     29223164     47675103       7716955            0     84615221
SWITCHYARD 220KV & 500KV              0       461418       486746       522357        536664      2007185
NAVIGATION                            0      8031476    135563057      18197020            0    161791553
VARIATION UORK                        0            0            0             0            0            0
PRICE ESCALATION                      0            0            0             0            0            0
. ... .... ....   ...... .. ..    ... . . . .   ... . . . .   .... ... ..   .... ... ..
Sub-Total                              0    124150907    244924749     26436332        536664    396048651
C. METAL WORKS                             0      4404469            0             0            0      4404469
D. ELEC. & MECH. WORKS
TURBINES 1&2, GOVRS. ITO7            0       1376712     19510596      5671008       1690486     28248802
GENS.1&2, EXC'TRS.1 TO 7             0      19729027     14211855      5744340       1553097     41238319
UNITS 3,4,5,6,7                       0     24333750     51337125      51508249            0    127179124
UNIT AUTOMATIC COMPONENT              0      2992243            0             0            0      2992243
GENS'. 13.8KV BREAKERS                0      2348008     11919800      4359180       1552244     20179232
AUXILIARIES FOR UNITS                 0     77780707            0             0            0     77780707
TRANSFORMERS                          0      2703750     14488477      8145490             0     25337718
SUITCHGEAtS & AUXILIARIES            0       3857350      4882731            0             0      8740081
CONTROL SYSTEM                        0      2670859     23541605      9341100             0     35553564
LOCAL TRANS. & ERECTION               0     12123100     23251100      15868876      2563434     53806510
500KV TRANSMISSION LINES              0            0            0             0            0            0
Sub-Total                              0    149915506    163143289    100638243       7359261    421056300
E. ENG. & CONSTN. SUPERVN.                 0     29911307     18250251     20129438      20951454     89242450
F. ADMINISTRATION                         0       5098500     10756350     10378085      10541223     36714158
G. TECH. ASSIST. & TRAINING
STUDY A,B,C                          0        812100      1947027            0             0      2759127
TRAINING                             0       1718775      4078105      1423583       1449607      8670070
Sub-Total                             0       2530875      6025132      1423583       1449607     11429197                                         I
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                        0    466383325    460212146    176973674      59704602   1163273747
Totat                                      0    4.66383325    460212146    176973674     59704602   1163273747
7/22/1992  11:51                                                0



CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SECOND PHASE (1991 costs)
Table 1. SIIUIWOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
ORIGINAL SCOPE
Detailed Cost Table
RH8
Totals Including Contingencies                                Oreakdoin of Totals Incl.Cont.
1985-91       1992        1993        1994        1995       Total         F.Exch       Local       Taxes      Total
~~~~. ... .... .... ...... ........... .................... . ........ ............. ..    --------------------------------
1. IUVESTMENT COSTS
. .... . . . . .
A. PRELIMINARY WORK
PRELIMINARY WORK                   0     2365658    3072240      3087284    3316293    11841475               0    11841475          0    11841475
RESETTLEMENT COMPENSATION          0    25044433           0           0           0    25044433              0   25044433           0   25044433
RESETTLEMENT MATERIALS             0           0           0           0           0           0              0           0           0          0
Sub-Total                           0   27410091      3072240    3087284    3316293   36885908                 0   36885908           0    36885908
8. CIVIL B ASSOCIAED UORKS
DIVERSION WORK                      0     487064       172391          0           0      659454         428650      230805           0     659454
DAM & INTAKE WORKS                  0    15268468    10815014          0           0   26083482        16954472    9129010            0    26083482
POWERHOUSE                          0     5326862    8559264      1325937          0    15212063        9898021     5314042           0    15212063
SUITCHYARD 220KV & so0Kv           0       84108       87387       89752       94334      355581         231812      123769           0     355581
NAVIGATION                         0      1463995    24338071    3126636           0    28928702       18827688   10101014            0   28928702          1
VARIATION UORK                     0           0           0           0           0           0              0           0           0          0         so
PRICE ESCALATION                   0           0           0           0           0           0              0           0           0          0
Sub-Total                           0    22630497    43972i27    4542325        94334    71239283       46340642   24898641           0   71239283
C. METAL WORKS                          0      802856           0           0           0      802856         802856           0          0      802856
0. ELEC. & MECH. UORKS
TURBINES 1U2, GOVRS. ITO?          0      250950     3502800      974400      297150    5025300 .       5025300          0           0    50253U0
GENS.182. EXCITRS.1 TO 7           0     3596250     2551500      987000      273000    7407750         7407750           0          0    7407750
UNITS 3.4.5,6.7                    0    435609    9216719    8850215               0   22502542               0   22502542           0   22502542
tUIl AUTM0ATIC COMPONENT           0      545432           0           0           0      545432         545432           0          0      545432
GENS'. 13.8KM BREAKERS             0      428000     2140000      749000      272850    3589850         3589850           0          0    3589850
AUXILIARIES FOR UNITS              0    14178036           0           0           0    14178036              0    14178036          0    14178036
TRANSFORMERS                       0      492845     2601163     1399569           a    4493577               0    4493577           0    4493577
SUITCHGERS & AUXILIARIES           0      703126      876612           0           0     1579739              0     1579739          0     1579739
CONTROL SYSTEM                     0      486850    4226500      1605000           0    6318350         6318350           0          0    6318350
LOCAL TRANS. £ ERECTION            0    2209825    4174345    2726611         450595    9561375               0    9561375           0    9561375
SOOKV TRANSMISSION LINES           0           0           0           0           0           0              0          0           0           0
.. ........... ........... ........... ...........
Sub-Total                           0    27326924   29289639    17291794      1293595    75201952       22886682   52315270           0    75201952
E. ENG. & CONSTI. SUPERYN.              0    5452298    3276526    3458666    3682801    15870291            4148862    11721429          0    15870291
F. ADMINISTRATION                       0      929366    1931122    1783176    1852913    6496577                  0    6496577           0    6496577
G. TECH. ASSIST. & TRAINING
SITDY AUB,C                        0      148031      349556           0           0      497587         497587          0           0      497587
TRAINING                           0      313302      732155      244402      254809     1544868        1337320     207548           0     t544868         3
....................... ........... ...................... .........................................................
Sub-Total                           0      461333     1081711      244602      254809    2042455         1834908      207548          0    2042455
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS                     0   85013366   82623366   30407848   10494745   208539324           76013950  132525374           0  20853s9?4
Total                                   0   85013366   826.23366    50407848   10494745   208539324         76013950  132525374           0   208539324
7/ 2/1992 1 :51



CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SECOND PHASE (1991 costs)
Table 2. SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
ADDITIONAL SCOPE
Detailed Cost Table
RMB
Base Costs
1985-91        1992         1993        1994         1995       Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL & ASSOCIATED WORKS
NAVIGATION DESIGN CHANGE             0    11240100    16860150       564720            0    28664970
S. METAL WORKS
SNIPLIFT IOC. EQUIPMENT              0           0    12500000    12500000      5000000    30000000
SHIPLIFT fOR. EQUIPHENT              0           0    10860000    16290000             0    27150000
SHIPLIFT LOCAL MATERIAL              0            0     7000000           0            0     7000000
SHIPLIFl FOREIGN MATERIAL            0           0    13575000    19005000             0    32580000
SHIPLIFT LOCAL FABRICATUN            0     1000000      8000000           0            0     9000000
Sub-Total                             0     1000000    51935000    47195000       5000000   105730000
C. ELEC. & MECH. JORKS
GRID AUTOMATIC SYSTEN                0     2715000    21720000      3312300            0    27747300
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                       0    14955100    90515150    51672020       5000000   162142270
Total                                     0    14955100    90515150    51672020       5000000   162142270                                                   uD
7/22/1992  11:52



CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SECOND PHASE (1991 costs)
Table 2. SHUIKOU HYOROELECTRIC PROJECT
ADDITIONAL SCOPE
Detailed Cost Table
RM0
Base Costs in US5
1985-91       1992       1993       1994        1995      Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. CIVIL & ASSOCIATED WORKS
NAVIGATION DESIGN CHANGE           0    2070000    3105000      104000           0    5279000
9. METAL WORKS
SHIPLIFT LOC. EQUIPMENT            0           0    2302026    2302026     920810    5524862
SHIPLIfT FOR. EQUIPMENT            0           0    2000000    3000000          0    5000000
SHIPLIFT LOCAL MATERIAL            0           0    1289134          0          0    1289134
SHIPLIFT FOREIGN MATERIAL          a           0    2500000    3500000          0    60L0"00
SHIPLIFT LOCAL FABRICAT'N          0      184162    1473297          0          0    1657459
.......... .................. ..... ........ .................. ......... .. ----  -------  -------  --------
Sub-Totat                           0      184162    9564457    8802026     920810   19471455
C. ELEC. & MECH. WORKS
GRID AUTOMATIC SYSTEM              0      500000    4000000     610000          0    5110000
...----- -   ----------   --- -------   ----------   .--------.   - -.- -------
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                     0    2754162   16669457    9516026      920810   29860455
Total                                    0    2754162   16669457    9516026     920810   29860455
=322/1992   11:52
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      S



I.
CHINA
SHUIKWt HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SECOND PHASE (1991 costs)
table 2. SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
ADDITIONAL SCOPE
Detail4d Cost Table
RMS
Totals Including Contingencies
1985-91        1992         1993        1994         1995       Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. CIVIL & ASSOCIA1ED WORKS
NAVIGATION DESIGN CHANGE             0    12735147    20151265       724335            0    33610748
0. METAL WORKS
SHIPLIFT LOC. EQIJIPNENT             0           0    16297500    17112375       7187197    4059707?
SHIPLIFT FOR. EQUIPMENT              0           0    14160194    23059177             0    37219372
SHIPLIFT LOCAL MATERIAL              0           0      9126600           0            0     9126600
SHIPLJFT FOREIGN NATERIAL            0           0    17700243    26902374             0    44602617
SHIPLIFT LOCAL FABRICAT'N            0     1081500      9126600           0            0    10208100
Sub-Total                             0     1081500    66411137    67073926       7187197   141753761
C. ELEC. & MECH. WORKS
GRID AUTOMATIC SYSTEM                0     2992243    25252347      4180757            0    32425346
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                       O    16808890   111814749    71979018       7187197   207789855                                              Ut
Total                                     0    16808890   111814749    71979018       7187197   207789855
7/22/1992 11:52



CHINA
SHUlKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SECOND PHASE (1991 costs)
Table 2. SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
ADDITIONAL SCOPE
Detailed Cost Table
RHO
Totals Including Contingencies                               Breakdowm of Totals Incl.Cont.
USs                                                         USS
1985-91       1992        1993        1994       1995       Total        F.Exch       Local      Taxes       Total
.. ...  .. .........  .....................  ........................ ...... ........... .................. .................................... ....  ------------------------
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
......... ............ ..... 
A. CIVIL & ASSOCIATED WORKS
NAVIGATION DESIGN CHANGE             0    2321390    3617821      124456           0    6063668        3942387    2121281                 6063668
B. METAL WORKS
SHIPLIFT LOC. EQUIPMENT              0          0    2925943    2940271    1263350    7129563                0    7129563           0    7129563
SHIPLIfT FOR. EQUIPMENT              0          0    2542225    3962058            0    6504283        6504283           0          0    6504283
SHIPLIfT LOCAL NAlERIAL             0           0    1638528           0           0    1638528              0    1638528           0    1638528
SHIPLIFT fOREIGN MATERIAL           0           0    3177781    4622401            0    7800182        7800182           0          0    7800182
S8IPLIfT LOCAL fADRICAT'N           0      197138    1638528           0           0    1835666              0    1835666           0    135666
Sub-Total                            0      197138   11923005   11524730    1263350   24908223         14304466   10603757           0   24908223
C. ELEC. & AECN. WORKS
GRID AUTOMATIC SYSTEM               0      545432    4533635      718343           0    5797411        5797411           0          0    5797411
-          ...... .   .   .    ....    ...   .   ... ...   .... ----------    --- -- - -     --------.--     --- -- --   ---- ----  ----------    --.- - --     ---.-- -   -- - -- -
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                       0    3063961   20074461   12367529    1263350   36769301         24044263   12725038            0   36769301                  c
~~~~====_== =                … 5S==
Total                                     0    3065961   20074461   12367529    1263350   36769301         24044263   12725038           0   36769301
7/221992     =5                                                                    = == = =…
7/22/1992 11:52
'W4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



CHINA
SHUIKOW HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SECOND PHASE (1991 costs)
Suwiary Account by Project Component
RNB
Physical                Price
Contiingencies          Contingencies
ORIGINAL    ADDITIONAL 
SCOPE        SCOPE           Total            X        Amount         X      Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
......  .......................
A. PRELIMINARIES
1. PREPARATORY WORKS                57000000             0     57000000            5       2850000         12      7074762
2. Resettlement Compensation        127040000            0    127040000             5      6352000          3      4001760
Sub-total                           184040000             0    184040000             5      9202000          6     11076522
8. Civil & Associated Works
1. ICO CIVIL WORKS                 349138140      28664970    377803110            6      22797855          8     29058433
C. METAL WORKS
1. MATERIAL PROCUREMENT              4072500      39580000     43652500            19      8119625         15      6361561
2. MANUFACTURINGS                           0     66150000     66150000            18     11880000         15      9994544
-- -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- --  - -- -  ............. --------------------- ---------------------
Sub-total                             4072500    105730000    109802500             18     19999625         15     16356105
D. ELEC. & MECH WORKS
1. UNITS & AUXILIARIES             266304280             0    266304280            6      15145367          6     16168780                            '4
2. TRANSfORMERS & SWITCHGEAR        29700000             0     29700000            6       1639000          9      2738799
3. CONTROL SYSTEM                   32064150      27747300     59811450             7      4186801          7      3980659
4. LOCAL TRANSP. & ERECTION         46000000             0     46000000             7      3220000         10      4586510
5. TRANSMISSION LINES                       0            0            0             0            0          n            o
Sub-total                           374068430      27n47300    401815730             6     24191168          7     27474748
E. ENG. & CONSIN. SUPERVN.            73470000            0     73470000            10      7347000         11      8425450
f. ADMINISTRATION                    29770000             0     29170000            10      2977000         14      4027158
G. TECH. ASSIST. & TRAINING           9474760             0      9474760            10       947476         11      1006961
Total BASELINE COSTS                1024033830    162142270   1186176100             7     87462124          8     97425377
Physical Contingencies             6;'857316     24604808     87462124
Price Contingencies                76382601      21t042777    97425377             7      7291915
Total PROJECT COSTS                 1163273747    207789855   1371063602            7      94754039          7    97425377
Taxes                                     0             0            0            0             0
Foreign Exchange                  423063894    136100143    559964037             7     41907074
7/22/1992 11:52



CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SECOND PHASE (1991 costs)
SuLaaaary Accounts Cost Summary
R1B                                    US$                                   X Total
--------  ---------   ----........-.-----.  ....................................  X  fooreinnBaas
Local     Foreign       Total          Local    foreign      Total        Exchange       Costs
1. IlVESTHENT COSTS
A. PRELIMINARIES
1. PREPARATORY VOAKS           57000000           0    57000000       10497238          0   10497238              0            5
2. Resettlegent Coupensation   127040000          0   127040000       23395948          0   23395948               0          11
-..--.    -..-.-.-....----..-----..----------  ... ...... ... .... ....... .............  -- - - - - - -- - - - - -
Sub-Total                        184040000           0    184040000      33893186          0   33893186              0           16
8. Civit & Associated Vorks
1. ICB CIVIL WORKS            132231088   245572021   377803110       24351950   45225050   69577Cac             65           32
C. METAL IJORKS
1. MATERIAL PROCUREMENT         7000000    36652500    43652500        1289134    6750000    8039134             84            4
2. MANUFACTURINGS              39000000    27150000    66150000        7182320    5000000   12182320              41           6
Sub-Total                         46000000    63802500   109802500        8471455   11750000   20221455             .58           9
0. ELEC. & MECH WORKS
1. UHITS l AUXILIARIES        181075000    85229280   266304280       33347145   15696000   49043145             32           22
2. TRANSFORMERS & SUITCHCEAR    29700000          0    29700000        5469613          0    5469613               0           3
3. CONTROL SYSTEM                     0    59811450    !.9811450             0   11015000   11015(00             100           5                   1
4. LOCAL TRANSP. & ERECTION    46000000           0    46000000        8471455          0    8471455               0           4                   Q)
T. TRANSMISSION LINES                0            0           0              0          0          0                           0                   CD
Sub-Total                        256775000   145040730   401815730       47288214   26711010   73999214              36         7S)
E. ENG. & COUSIN. SUPERVN.        54367800    19102200    73470000       10012486    35179t1   13530387              26           6
F. ADMINISTRATION                 29770000           0    29770000        5482505          a    5482505              0            3
G. TECH. ASSIST. & TRAINING         983740     8491020     9474760         181168    1563724    1744891             90            1
--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --.--  .... .... .......... ... .... .. ......... .. ............................ ......... ...... .... ..
Total BASELINE COSTS             704167628   482008471   1186176100     129680963   88767674  218448637             41          100
Physical ContingencIes         48867653    38594471    87462124        8999568    7107637   16107205              44           7
Price Contingencies            58064284    39361094    97425377        6569880    4182902   10752782              39           5
..   .  .............   ........    ...... ... .... ...... .......... .....  -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
Total PROJECTS COSTS             811099565   559964037  1371063602      145250411  100058214  245308625              41         112
7/22/1992  11:52



-99-                              ANNEX 57
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU  IDELECTRIC PROJECT
Procuremtt Arrangements
($ million)
Total
Procurement method                project
ICB       Other ja      NBF  .    cost  £
1.   Works
1.1  Preparatory                                          11.8      11.8
1.2  Mdin civil                   79.3                              79.3
(50.3)                           (50.3)
2.   Goods
2.2  Turbines 1 & 2                5.6                               5.6
Governors 1 -7               (5.6)                             (5.6)
2.3  Generators 1 & 2              7.4                               7.4
Exciters 1-7                 (7.4)                             (7.4)
2.4  Generating units                                     22.5      22.5
3 to 7
2.5  Generator breakers            3.6                               3.6
(3.6)                            (3.6)
2.6  Auxiliaries for units                                14.2      14.2
2.7  Transformers                                          4.5       4.5
2.8  Switchgears                                           1.6       1.6
& auxiliaries
2.9  Powerhouse                    6.3                               6.3
control system               (6.3)                             (6.3)
2.10 Powerhouse                                            9.6       9.6
equipment erection
2.11 Netalworks                    0.8                               0.8
(0.8)                            (0.8)
2.12 Shiplift control              5.5           1.0                 6.5
equipment                    (5.5)         (1.0)               (6.5)



* 100 -
Total
Procurement method                project
ICB       Otner JA      NBF A      cost 4c
2.13 Shiplift cables               3.1                               3.1
(3.1)                            (3.1)
2.14 Shiplift hydraulic             3.7          1.0                 4.7
equipment                    (3.7)         (1.0)               (4.7)
2.15 Shiplift mechanical                                    7.1      7.1
equipment
2.16 Shiplift electrical                                    1.6      1.6
equipment
2.17 Grid SCADA system              5.8                              5.8
(5.8)                            (5.8)
3.  Consultancies
3.1  Engineering and                             4.1       11.7     15.8
supervLsion                                (4.1)               (4.1)
3.3  Technical assistance                        1.8        0.2      2.0
& trainlng                                 (1.8)               (1.8)
4.   Miscellaneous
4.1  Resettlement                                          25.0     25.0
4.2 Administration                                          6.5      6.5
Total                       121L1           LI      1163    245.3
(22.1)        (7.9)             (100.0
Note: Figures in parentheses are '-he respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan.
/A Other: Shopping and Consulting Services.
4k NBF: Non-Bank financed.
Lc Cost includes physical and price contingencies.



- 101 -ANNEX 5.
CHINA
SECONDSI8HUIE^ HYDLOELECTRXC PtOJICT
Diabursement schedule
Bank /I
Bank fiscal year       Semester        Cumulative           Project        Profile
and Semester        (S million)                            (percent)
First                7.9                 7.9                 7.9             3.0
Second              24.1                32.0               32.0             10.0
1994
First               33.0                65.0               65.0            i8.0
Second              20.3                85.3               85.3            30.0
1995
First                7.6                92.9               92.9            46.0
Second               5.7                98.6               98.6            9i8.0
1996
First                0.6                99.0               99.0            70.0
Second               0.6                99.8               99.8            78.0
1997
first                0.2               100.0              100.0            82.0
/a Bankwide etandard disbursement profile for all sectors in China, issued on
April 25, 1S90.



- 102 -ANEX 6.1
SECONiD_'~HU1KO HYDRELECTRIC PRLOJECT
Financial System Followed by Chinese Power Bureaus
1.        Power companies may accumulate capita] from three separate and dis-
tinct sources. Ihese include funds for fixed assets, funds for working capi-
tal, and a number of special funds.
(a) Funds for Fixed Assets. These funds are obtained from the State in
large enough amounts to permit implementation of approved projects
according to agreed schedules. Until 1980, these funds were pro-
vided almost entirely as grants; since then, the Government has
decided to make these funds available as loans obtained from the
banking system or from official sources. The funds under this cate-
gory are used exclusively to finance works classified as capital
expenditures. The funds are released monthly, in accordance with
plan provisions, in amounts needed to cover actually incurred expen-
ditures. The power bureaus are not expected to finance significant
portions of their generating and transmis._-on investments from oper-
ations; rather, they are expected to remit most of their surplus
income to the Government through payment of taxes;
(b) Funds for Working Capital. These funds are also received from the
State. They are based on a fixed amount established by regulation
and subject to review at intervals of about 10 years. These funds
make up only a minor part of the power bureaus' capital and, because
most of the bureaus have drawn their entire allocations since the
last review, these funds have been used only as a minor source of
capital in recent power projects proposed for Bank financing.
Because current obligations both to and from the power bureaus are
settled almost as accrued, the working capital funds have been used
primarily to finance operating inventory; and
(c) Sgecial Funds. These funds are earmarked for distinct purposes and
are funded from net operating revenues or cash receipts in amounts
established according to regulations. The power bureaus' accounts
contain four separate categories of special funds, including those
for: (i) maintenance; (ii) renovations; (iii) employee benefits;
and (iv) distribution improvements. The special funds for main-
tenance are financed by allocations charged as operating expenses in
determining net operating income before Income Tax. The special
funds for renovations are financed by charges against Government
Funds (the balance sheet account showing the Government's equity
investment in a power bureau) equal to the portiou of depreciation
provisions not used for debt repayment. The special funds for
employee bAnefits are financed using distributions from Net Income
after Income Tax but prior to the Adjustment Tax. Receipts and
withdrawals from the special funds associated with distribution
improvements are passed through the Flow of Funds statement and are
specifically excluded from the Income Statement.   All other alloca-



- 103 -                           A LiL 6.1
tions to the special funds appear or are reflected on the Income
Statement as though they are operating costs or distributions from
earnings, regardless of whether corresponding cash expenditures have
been incurred. UndIer more traditional accounting systems, the
moneys expended from the special funds would largely be classified
as operating costs or working capital. However, items charged to
the Special Funds for both renovations and distribution improvements
would be capitalized as fixed assets once the underlying work is
completed. Thus, when the renovations or distribution improvements
are complete4, their value is deducted from the special funds
balance and added to the Government Funds account. The power
bureaus have only one way to channel tariff revenues into cash since
all operating revenues must either be expensed; distributed to cover
cash outflows, debt service or taxes; invested in renovations or
distribution improvements; or retained for future expenditure
chargeable to the special funds. The bureaus channel revenues into
cash by using the excess of special fund allocations over the sum of
(a) Special Fund Expenditures; (b) completed renovations and distri-
bution improvements; and (c) increases in Special Fund Assets. In
turn, cash generated through the Special Funds may be interchanged
with other operating cash: however, allocations to particular spe-
cial funds create an ultimate obligation for a power bureau to use
the accumulated cash only for certain categories of expenditures.
2.        Until 1983, the power bureaus paid remittances to MOE equal to oper-
ating revenues less the sum of cash expenditures charged directly to opera-
tions, all allocations to special funds, and debt service.  Since 1983, the
power bureaus pay MOF an Income Tax, assessed at 55 percent of operating reve-
nues less the sum of costs (including depreciation) charged directly to opera-
tions, all allocations to special funds that are treated as expenses, and debt
service in excess of the portion of depreciation provisions specifically allo-
cated for debt repayment. From the residual after Income Tax, the power
bureaus must cover the special fund allocations thac are treated as distribu-
tions from earnings and the amount of debt repayment and capitalized interest
during construction to be met from net income, and remit the remainder to MOE
as an Adjustment Tax. / MOE has some flexibility in controlling the power
bureaus' liquidity. It can do this either by changing their allocations to
the special funds, making grants for allocation to the special funds, or
relieving the power bureaus of a portion of the Adjustment Tax. The power
bureaus appear to have adequate liquidity and MOE has not shown any inclina-
tion to adjust the procedures that affect their liquidity.
3.        Under the existing financial system, the Government does not intend
for the power bureaus to retain a surplus. However, tariff revenues must meet
debt service requirements and repayment per se does not represent a charge
against earnings. Regulations provide that certain stipulated amounts of
repayment shall be met from cash that has been generated by depreciation;
however, the remainder of the cash generated by depreciation must be added to
a bureau's operating cash and a corresponding allocation must be made to the
Special Funds for renovations. As a result, the remainder of repayment, which
2./ From an accounting point of view, the Adjustment Tax is treated in a
manner similar to a dividend.



- 104 -                                 61
must be met from an earmarked increment of tariff revenues, creates an accumu-
lation of equity in the form of a corresponding undistributed earnings.
4.        Most power bureaus have units which engage in construction manage-
ment and subsidiaries which function as contractors. As a rule, the accounts
of the construction management units are consolidated with those of the power
bureau's operating units; however, the accounts of subsidiaries acting as
construction contractors are, as a rule, n   consolidated with those of the
operating units. As a result, when investments were financed through grants,
the power bureau's consolidated accounts may have routinely understated gross
fixed assets and certainly did not reflect adequately construction in pro-
gress. Also, in the past, only about 85 percent of the value of government
grants used to finance new fixed assets was transferred from the books of the
construction subsidiaries functioning as contractors to the power bureau's
consolidated accounts. The residual was considered to have been expended in
purchasing moving assets, which remained with those construction subsidiaries
upon the completion of construction. The change to using loans rather than
grants to finance power sector investments has caused investment funds to be
channelled from the Government through the power bureaus for payment to con-
struction units acting as contractors. Thus, in the future, the consolidated
accounts of the power bureau should more accurately reflect the value of gross
fixed assets and construction in progress.
5.        Given the existing financial system, the power bureaus have little
financial incentive to increase tariffs at the present time. Once a power
bureau has sufficient revenues to meet the costs charged directly to opera-
tions and all special fund allocations and debt service, any additional reve-
nues are remitted to the State through income or adjustment taxes. Thus, once
expenses and required distributions have been met, even a large tariff
increase would not increase a power bureau's financial viability, except to
improve debt service coverage. Therefore, the familiar indicators of finan-
cial performance such as rate of return and self-financing ratio have very
limited application to the financial analysis of a Chinese power bureau.
6.        Nevertheless, the relationships between pricing, operating costs and
size of investment program are becoming increasingly important to MOE/SEIC.
In their role as nationwide managers of the sector, MOE/SEIC have to arrange
financing for the large and rapidly expanding investment programs of the
regional power bureaus. They have, therefore, become acutely conscious of the
need to mobilize appropriate resources from the consumers. To further their
efforts for resource mobilization, recent Bank-financed power projects in
mainland China have provided for financial covenants with specific targets for
"notional self-financing ratio." For purposes of these agreements, the
Adjustment Tax would not be considered a reduction in earned cash because it
is a remittance of a residual and not a tax built into the cost structure and
the proceeds are generally recycled into investments in the power sector.



- 105-                            ANNEX 6.2
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Fuiian Provincial Electric Power B.ieau
Income Statement
(Million Yuan)
Year ended December 31                      1986    1987    1988    1989   1990
Sales increase (%)                          11.6    13.7    16.5    17.9      3.6
Energy sales (CWh)                         5,000   5,690   6,631   7,817   8,095
Average revenue/kWh (fen)                    ?.6     8.8    10.3    13.3    15.2
Operating revenue                            382     498      683   1.037   1,228
ODeratina Costs
Fuel                                      112     155     175      198     172
Purchased power                            33      33      53      475     599
Operations & maintenance                   24      29      41       47      56
Administration                             10      14      19       15      26
Sales tax                                 89      108     139      121     218
Depreciation                               56      76      90      103      46
Others -                                    -       -       -        7
Total Oc,eratino Costs            324      415     517     959   1.124
operating income                              58      83     166       78     105
Interest charged to operations                 -       -       1        1       -
Other Income                                   2                1       2       7
Income Before Tax                  Al      83      166      72      112
Income tax                                    26      23      54       23      26
Net Income                         30       60     112      56       86
Distribution of Net Income                    12       8       16      12      12
Remitted to Government                      7      35      55       27      54
Transferred to Government funds            11      17      41       17      20
Employee Benefits Special Fund
Net Income                         30       60     112      56       86
Rate base                                    894   1,058   1,328   1,654   1,928
Rate of return (%)                           6.3     7.8    12.5      4.8     5.8



- 106 -                            ANNEX 6.2
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Fulian Provincial Electric Power Bureau
Balance Sheet
(Million Yuan)
Year ended December 31                      1986    1987   1988    1989   1990
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                   47       64      86       68    167
Inventories                            45       52      54      76      76
Receivables                            13       12      23       52     67
Total Current Assets            105     128      163     196    310
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service                    1,261   1,583   1,950   2,319  2,654
(less) Accum. depreciation            340     389      445     516    601
Net vlant in service            921   1.194   1.505   1.803  2.053
Construction w=rk-in-progress         1,183   1,505   1,898   2,628  2,639
Total Fixed Assets            2.104   2.699   3,402   4,431  4.692
Special Fund Assets                     140      178     155      176    169
Total Assets                  2.349   3.005   3,721   4,803  5,171
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                       47       54      55       85    131
Due to Government                        7       5       8       11     24
Total Current Liabilities        54       59      63      96    155
Long-term debt                        1,127   1,650   2,348   3,202  3,339
Government funds                         770     830     959   1,110  1,207
Working capital funds                     33      37      40       49     47
Special/Enterprise Funds                 158     209     258      285    348
Construction Appropriation               207     220      53       61     75
Total Liabilities          -  2.349   3.005   3.721   4,803  5.171
Debt as % of debt & equity                 54.8    61.4    65.9    69.7   66.7
Current ratio                               2.0     2.2     2.6      2.0    2.0



- 107 -                           ANNEX 6.2
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau
Funds Flow Sheet
(Milllon Yuan)
Year ended December 31                      1986    1987   1988    1989   1990
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Sources of Funds
Net income before interest              30       60     112       56      86
Depreciation                            39       53      64       74      88
Maintenance                              17      23      26       30      46
Distribution expansion special funds   38        38      52       49      57
Others                                  43       34      21       30     109
Total Internal Sources            167     208      275     239      386
Borrowings                                   598     523     552      854     821
Government Funds - Grants                    190      13       8        8      26
Total Sources of Funds            955     744      835   1.101   1,233
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditures                      788     536     560      862     847
Ooerational Recuirements
Inc/Dec in working capital               -11       -3      -1        8     -44
Inc/Dec in special funds assets           25       38      21       20      32
Debt service                               19     101     121      111     145
Remittances to Government                  13       9      16       12      12
Special fund expenditures                 104      47      96      104     182
Total Operational Requirements   150       192     253     255      327
Total Aolication of Funds         938      728     813   1.117   1.174
Increase/decrease in cash                     17      16      22      -16      59
Annual debt service coverage                 6.8     1.7      1.8     1.4     2.5



- 108 -                           ANN    6.3
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Assumptions to FPEPB's Financial Proiections
A. Income Statement
1.        Energy  al_ reflect FPEPB's projected expansion program.  Power to
be produced by the Fuzhou Thermal Power Station and to be distributed through
the Fujian system for which FPEPB will act as sales agent is included as
FPEPB's sales.
2.        Tiffs are assumed to be adjusted so that the average revenues
would be adequate for achieving the minimum financial performance targets.
3.        Fuel costs are based on 1990 actual price paid for coal and are
assumed to increase with the projected local inflation rates.
4.        Purchased power are based on 1990 actual purchased price and are
assumed to increase by 5 percent per annum for small and medium hydropower.
Purchase price for electricity from large hydropower and thermal power sta-
tions are based on "new plant, new price policy" and derived by full recovery
of operating cost and debt service requirement.
5.        Oteration and maintenance costs include payroll and materials esca-
lated with projected local inflation rates, 6 percent in 1992 and 5 percent
for 1993 and thereafter; and an allocation to the Maintenance Special Fund at
2.3 percent of gross fixed assets and a charge of Y 1 per kW supplied by
hydropower station for reservoir area maintenance.
6.        Administration cost is based on FPEPB's 1990 actual expenditure and
is assumed to increase with projected growth of energy sales and local infla-
tion rates.
7.        Sales tax is assumed at 20.4 percent of 'ales revenue after power
purchase expenses.
8.        DeRreciatign is assumed to be 3.5 percent of gross fixed assets in
operation at the beginning of the year.
9.        Incoe tax is expected to be assessed at 55 percent of taxable
income.
B. Balane Sheet
10.       Inventories. accounts receivable and accounts payable are projected
by FPEPB in accordance with its own expansion program.
11.       Construction work-in-progress reflects the aggregate construction
work-in-progress of FPEPB's own construction units and other construction
units work as contractors for FPEPB.



- 109-                            AM    6!3
12.       SDecial fund assets represents renovations and distribution expan-
sion under construction. The renovations are financed by expenditures from
Special Fund for Renovations. The distribution expansions are financed from
the Distribution Expansion Special Funds.
13.       Due to Government is expected to increase by 4 percent each year.
C. Funds Flow Statement
14.       Distribution Expansion SRecial Fund represents the receipts of con-
sumer connections. It is assumed to be at Y 660 per incremental GWh distrib-
uted by FPEPB which includes power supplied by Fuzhou Thermal Power Station.
15.       Renovations and minor exRansIon represents 85 percent of previous
year's and 15 percent of the year prior to the previous year's expenditures
from the Special Fund for Renovations.
16.       Distribution expansion represent 85 percent of the previous year's
and 15 percent of the year prior to the previous year's expenditures from the
Distribution Expansion Special Fund.
17.       SRecial fnd exRendiet    g represents aggregate amounts actually
spent from the various special funds in a particular year. In general, expen-
ditures from the special fund are assumed at 80 percent of the previous year's
and 20 percent of the year before the previous year's allocations.



China
Shuikou Hydroelectric Project II
Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau
Projected Income Statements  1991-2000)
(Y Million)
Year Ended December 31                1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    19Y8    1999    2000
----  ----  ~~~~~....  .....  ----  ....    . ....  ----   ----.   ---
Sales Increase CX)                    14.5    13.2    13.3    13.3    13.4       9.8     9.9    10.0      9.9    10.1
Energy Sales (GWh)                    9272   10499   11899   13485   15294   16794   18465   20312   22321   24576
Average Revenue/kWh (fen)            16.50   17.73   20.97   22.36   24.41   25.29   25.75   25.92   26.73   29.25
Min Price Indicator                  16.19   17.73   20.97   22.36   24.41   25.29   25.75   25.92   26.73   29.25
Operating Revenue                     1530    1863    2497    3016    3736    4253    4760    5268    5969    7192
Operating Costs
Fuel                                 190     273      294     335     394      524     696      875     927    1152
Purchased Power                      770     918      947     976    1006    1038    1070    1192    1904    2278
Operation & Maintenance              129     143      196     287      364     407     465      506     531      591
Administration                        47      57       68      80      96      111      128     147     170      197
Sales Tax                            155     193      316     416     557      656     753      831     829    1002
Depreciation                          93     102      108     168     282      370     407      464     492      504
Less: Fuzhou Thermal Cost             11      14       15      16       16      17      18       21      34      42
Other Expenses
Total Operating Costs                 1372    1672    1914    2247    2682    3089    3502    3997    4821    5682
...... ....     ----    ----    ----     ----    ----     ----    ....    --o0
Operating Income                       158     191      583     769    1053    1164    1257    1271    1148    1509
Interest Chargeable to Operations      39       42     101      211     461     466      547     516      472     542
Other Income                            10      10       10      10       11      1;       12      12      13       13
Net Income before Income Tax           129     158      491     568     603      709     722      767     688     980
Income Tax                             55       64     229      246     182      194     175     158      125     201-
Net Income                              75      94      263     322     421      515     547      609     563     779
Distribution of Net Income
Remitted to Governfent                22      28      77       95      89       82      61       37      30      57
Transferred to Govt. Funds            16      25      59      104     256      340     388     463      432     582
Employee Benefits Special f"un        13      17      47       58      76       93      98      110     101     140
Enterprise Retained fund              23      24       79      65       0        0       0        0       0       0
Net Income                              75      94      263     322     421      515     547      609     563     779
=====================_ .=_.  ===========================================



China
Shuikou Hydroelectric Project 11
Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau
Projected Balance Sheets (1991-2000)
(Y Million)
Year Ended December 31             1991    1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
.... ----      ---     - --    ---     ---     ---     ---     - ---  ........ ...    
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                            217    304    400    509    560    626    705    800    911   1012
Inventories                      80      84      88     93      98    102    108    113    119    125
Receivables                      75      92    123    149    184    210    235    260    294    355
Total Current Assets            372    480    612    750    842    938   1047   1172   1324   1491
.. ... .........................  ....  ----.  ....    .... . .. ....  .... .    ----  ----   ----.   ... .. .
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service               2907   3094   4799   8047  10571  11641   13259  14066  14388  15842
(less) Accum. Depreciation      694     796    904    1072   1353   1723   2131   2595   3087   3591
Net Plant in Service           2213   2298   3895   6975   9217   9918   11128  11471   11301   12251
Construction WIP               3268   4288   4314    2620   1400   1479    842   1173   2413   2445
Total fixed Assets             5481    6586   8209   9596  10617  11397   11970  12643  13714  14697
................................  ...  ...  -----  -----. . -----  -----  ----- . ----  -- -  -- -
Special Fund Assets               209    233    224    249    295    305    344    408    472    519
Total Assets                 6061   7299   9045   10595   11754  12640  13361   14224  15509  16707
..............                             -----  . -----          ----   -- -    -- --   -- --   -- -
Liabilities 8 Equity
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                136    167    173    179    186    191    197    205    231    257
Due to Goverrment                25      26      27      28     29      30      32      33      34      36
Total Current Liabilities       161    193    200    207    215    221    229    238    266    292
...............-...............................  .  .   .. ... .. ...................  ....  . ....  ---   ---   ---   ---   .....
Construction Appropriate         r,.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0
Uorking Capital Funds              47      47      47      47     47      47      47      47      47      47
Long-term Debt                   4(111   4921   6294    7407   7998   8235   8251   8348   8813   8994
Goverrment Funds                 1325   1520   1770   2044   2474   3017   3574   4150   4756   5557
Special /Enterprise Fund          419    495    533    624    752    853    993    1173   1361   1549
International Borrowing            23      415    127    192    192    192    192    192    192    192
Total Liabilities & Equity    m61    7299   9045   10595  11754  12640   13361  14224   15509  16707
Debt as X of Debt & Equity         us.3   (.9.7   72.2   72.6   70.5   67.3   63.8   60.5   58.6   55.4
Current Ratio                       ;'.3    2.5    3.1    3.6    3.9    4.2    4.6    4.9    5.0    5.1



China
Shuikou Hydroelectric Project II
Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau
Projected Funds Flow Statements (1991-2000)
(Y Million)
Year Ended December 31              1991    1992    1993   1994   1995    1996   1997    1998   1999   2000
.. .  . .    ---     -- -    - -      - -    - -      . .    - -
Internal Sources of Funds
...  ....... .................. .
Other Sources of Funds             175    226    244    268    294    322         332    316    403    451
Net Income Before Interest         113     136    364    532    882    981    1094    1126   1035    1322
Depreciation                        93     102    108    168    282    370        407    464      492    504
Maintenance(Net of Expenditure)      3      13      9       19     29      36      37      44      46      47
Total Internal Sources            384     477     725    988    1487    1709    1870   1950   1976   2324
~~~. . ..         -- -    ....    -  -    - --....                ---
Distribution Expansion Special     95      120     92      105     119     99      110    122    133    149
Grants
Borrowings
Proposed IBRD Loan                 85     243    326       151     39       0
Other Shuikou Project Loans       643      545    463     249      67       0       0       0       0       0
Other Loans                        45      272     771    994    1014    925      750    872    1240    1107
Total Borrowings                772    1060    1560    1395    1120    925      750    872    1240    1107
. . . . . . . ..          ..  .    -  -   .. ..    -- -   - -      .-     -- -    - -   .   -     ....
Total Sources of Funds        1251    1657   2378    2487   2726    2733    2730   2944    3349   3580
Capital Expenditures
..... ..... ..... .
Proposed Shuikou Project          586     601    622      316     106       0       0       0       0       0
other Construction                 45      260     718    870    971      848     722    802    1C'9    985
Renovations and Minor Expansion    67      68       79     97      125    147     176    224    272    298
Distribution Expansion             81      103     82      89      103     87      94     106    114    128
Interest During Construction      142     199    220    208        44      77      28      70    151    122
lotal Capital Expenditure       920    1231    1722    1580    1349    1160    1019   1202   1626   1534
..........................................  ....  ----  ---  -- - - -  ....            ---     ---   ....-.
Operational Requirements
Inc/Dec in Uorking Capital          7     -10      30      24      33      26      24      23      14      41
Debt Service                      140      19S    288    493    990    1154    1280    1291    1247   1469
Remittances to Government          21      2(      76      94      88      81      60      36      28      55
Special Fund Expenditures          113     129    164     188    216    246       269     298    322    379
Total Operational Requirement    ?81    339     559    798    1326   1507    1632    1647   1611   1944
....... ............. . ........  ....  ....  - --    -- -    ....    ---     ---     ---     ---     ....
Total Application of Funds    1201    1570   2281    2379   2675   2667   2652    2849   3237   3478
========_============= = :==   ==~  ====   ====    ====   ====    ====    _===    ====   ====
Increase/Decrease in Cash            50      8;1     96    108       52      66      78      95    111      101
Annual Debt Service Coverage         2.7     2.5    2.5    2.0    1.5    1.5        1.5     1.5     1.6    1.6



China
Shuikou Hydroelectric Project II
Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau
Key Financial Indicators 1991-2000
(Y Million)
Year Ended December 31                1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Energy Sales  GUGh)                   9272   10499   11899   13485   15294   16794   18465   20312   22321   24576
Average Price (fen/kUh)               16.5    17.7    21.0    22.4    24.4    25.3    25.7    25.9    26.7    29.3
Operating Revenue                     1530    1863    2497    3016    3736    4253    4760    5268    5969    7192
Operating Income                        158     191      583     769    1053    1164    1257    1271    1148    1509
Annual Capital Expenditure             920    1231    1722    1580    1349    1160    1019    1202    1626    1534
Rate Base                             2132    2255    3097    5435    8096    9568   10523   11300   11386   11776
Long-term Debt (Accum.)               4011    4921    6294    7407    7998    8235    8251    8348    8813    8994
Debt Service                            140     193      288     493      990    1154    1280    1291    1247    1469 Projected
Average
Rate of Return                                                                                                           1991-2000
Historically Valued Assets(X)        7.4      8.5    18.8    14.1    13.0    12.2    11.9    11.2    10.1    12.8    12.0
Notionally Revalued Assets (X)       1.5      1.7     4.4      4.5     5.2      5.4     5.2      5.0     4 '      5.2      4.2
Self-financing Ratio (X)                22       22      22       25       25      31       38      42       37      37       30
Operating Ratio (X)                   79.5    79.4    64.0    60.7    56.9    57.2    57.8    60.1    66.9    65.1    64.8
Debt/Equity Ratio (%)                 68.3    69.7    72.2    72.6    70.5    67.3    63.8    60.5    58.6    55.4    65.9
Debt Service Coverage (times)          2.7      2.5     2.5      2.0      1.5     1.5      1.5     1.5      1.6     1.6      1.9
Current Ratio (times)                  2.3      2.5     3.1      3.6     3.9      4.2     4.6      4.9      5.0     5.1      3.9



- 114 -                           AEX 7L1
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Project Evaluation
1.        The following tables provide details on the economic evaluation of
Shuikou as a least-cost alternative for the expansion of the Fujian grid
(project sizing and evaluation based on the costs of a thermal alternative),
and of the economic rates of return of the project and of the total investment
program of the Fujian grid. Costs are based on 1991 price levels and actual
costs of Shuikou for the period 1985-90 have been adjusted to that level.
Shadow pricing for Shuikou is based on conversion factors of 1.23 for electro-
mechanical equipment, 1.1 for other local costs, and an exchange rate of Y 5.5
per $ applied to the foreign portion (37 percent), yielding an aggregsate con-
version factor of 1.08; the same is applied to the Nuyangxi hydro project in
the evaluation of the investment program. The economic cost of 300 KW coal
fired plants is of Y 2,830/kW, based on shadow pricing of similar units in
recent Bank projects; net specific consumption is of 330 grams of standard
coal (7,000 kcal/kg). The economic cost of coal imported from North China is
of Y 222/t delivered to Fujian plants, which is close to recent quotes of
market prices in Fujian, a relatively high-price province (about Y 220/t);
whereas FPEPB's minemouth plants currently use local nontradeable coal, plants
commissioned in the 1990s will be on the coast and use imported coal (as does,
today, the Huaneng plant). In project and program ROR calculations, incremen-
tal transmission and distribution costs are based on a system average of
4.5 fen/kWh.
Shuikou as a Least-Cost Alternative
2.        As regards project size, benefits from capacities above 1,200 KW
result primarily from fuel savings due to additional energy generation; bene-
fits in terms of peaking capacity are assumed negligible in the attached cal-
culation of incremental costs and benefits from alternative capacities, since
with 1,400 MW, operation at full capacity during the dry season is not
expected to occur before 2003. As indicated in the attached table, fuel sav-
ings outweigh the additional investment when capacity is increased from 1,200
to 1,400 NW, but not when it is increased further to 1,600 NW, confirming that
the turbine capacity of Shuikou is appropriate.
3.        The evaluation of Shuikou based on a coal-fired alternative provid-
ing the same capacity in dry season, and the same energy indicates an equaliz-
ing discount rate of 19 percent. Furthermore, hydro plants have advantages
over thermal plants, in terms of response to load fluctuations, which add to
this favorable balance.
Economic Rate of Return
4.        In the Chinese context of electricity rationing, the GNP value per
kWh consumed gives an indication of the potential weight of power shortages on
economic growth; in 1990, this ratio was of Y 3.4/kWh for China as a whole,
whereas the average revenue of FPEPB was about Y 0.165/kWh in 1991. The



- 115 -                           ANNEX 7.1
"Huaneng" price of 28 fen/kWh paid in 1991 by new customers under the current
multitier tariff system, that is, about 31 fen/kWh including the demand charge
and the 2 fen/kWh surcharge for the provincial power construction fund, indi-
cates a willingness to pay well above FPEPB's average rate (19 fen/kWh in
average for 1994-2000, in 1991 Yuan, to meet financial covenants, excluding
the 2 fen/kWh surcharge). These two price levels (including the 2 fen sur-
charge) are used as alternative measures of benefits.
5.        The ROR of Shuikou alone, based on the average tariff level is of
13.5 percent, which is higher than that of the entire investment program
(11.4 percent), even though Shuikou's ROR does not fully account for its spe-
cial role as a peaking plant; this is better reflected by the equalizing dis-
count rate of 19 percent based on the cost of a thermal alternative (para. 3
above). A price for peak time energy 30 percent higher than the average, as
applied by FPEPB to some customers, would yield a ROR of 17 percent for
Shuikou, which is closer to that based on the Huaneng price (19 percent). The
ROR for the entire investment program providing incremental supply over the
period 1993-2000 pzovides a more relevant measure of the adequacy of the tar-
iff level as compared to economic costs of supply. The ROR of this program
would be of 19 percent based on the observed willingness to pay for incremen-
tal power (Huaneng price), and of 11.4 percent based on the average tariff
level. The Long-Run Average Incremental Cost (LRAIC) calculated on the basis
of that program is of 21.7 fen/kWh, about the expected tariff level of 1994
and beyond, including the power fund surcharge but not taking into account the
contribution of connection charges. The LRAIC with a purely thermal develop-
ment and the same cost parameters (with FPG's current load factor of 72 per-
cent) can be calculated directly and would be about 23.6 fen/kWh, as against
18.7 fen/kWh for Shuikou. The investment cost of Shuikou would have to be
increased by 35 percent (including past costs) for the investment program to
yield that level of LRAIC; this further illustrates the intrinsic value of the
Shuikou project.



SECOND SHIUIMU HTRDRCEIECIRIC PROJECT                     ANNEX 7.1
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF POWER PLANT
YEAR                             19a5  1088  1087  1088  198  1090  10   1092  1093  1994  105  198  107  19    19   20  200   2002  2003  204  2008  200
SHUIKOU                                                                                                                                                       -2045
POWER ABSORPTION BY GRID MW                                                        250   317  487  583  884   778       6  1025  1158  130   1400
ENERGYABSORPTION BY GRJD (OW)                                                     1400  2800  4450  405D  4950  4950  4950  95       495 4    495  495  405  4840
CAPITAL GOS (FlNAk4CUt,Yx10^6)    21.92 93t31 181.1  297.3 351.5 422.2  740.7 7328 440.1  132.5 38M
OPERAIINGCOST(Yx1O^S)                                                             392  30.2  302  392  392  392  392  392  392  392  392  392  392  392
ECONOMIC COST MX10-6)            23.87 100.7 174.0 321.1 379.8 456.0 799.9 7912  521.0 1823 78.79  392  392  392  392  392  392  392  392  392  392  292
COAL ALTERNATIVE
EQJIVALENTCOAL CAPACITY             a     0     0     0     0    0      0     0 313.5 307.  585.7 706.1 8328 975.8 1123. 1288. 1440. 1630. 1755.
ELAVALENT COAL ENERGY               0     0     0     0    0      0     0    0  1498  29   4761. 5298. 5208. 5298. 5298. 5296. 5208. 5298. 5298. 5298. 5298. 5296.
STALLATN SCHEDULE                                                                  300   300         300         30          SW          30
CUMILAIIE CAPACrrY                                                                 300   600  80o   900  900  1200  1200  1500  1500  1800  1800  1800  1800  1s8x
COAL UNfT 1                                                     84.9 254.7 339A  16098
COAL UWrT2                                                            84  284.7 330A  160.
COAL UNIT3                                                                        84u  254.7 330.8 1808
COAL UWT 4                                                                                    84.  254.7 330.8 100.8
COAL UNITG                                                                                                84u  254.7 339.  16.S
COAL UNITO                                                                                                            84.9 254.7 330.  16s
CAPITALCOSTr(Yx1o^)                 0    0      0     0     0  84) 339.6 594.3 504.3 4245 4245 424S 424.  424.  424.5 424S  339.  1608
fIEL COST (YxOG)                    0     0     0     0    0    0       0     0 1020 204.1  324.5 30.   360.0 3603eos      UBOh  36O0  380  3600  380   380) 360
OPERAT1OGAND MIT. (YdXO6)           0     0     0     0     0    0    0       0  192  38.4  38.4  s7s  57*  768   78.8   g6          6 1152  115.2 1152 115.2 115.2
TOTAL COSrT (OX10o            ^    0      0     0     0    0   4.9 330.6 5943 7155 667.0 787.4 8410 843.0 8622 8622 8s1A  79"  045) 4761.  478.1 478.1 478.1
COST DIFF.1DRO - COAL)           -23a -100. -174. -321. -370. -371. -46t  -108. 104.5 484.  708. 8803.8 83   823.0 823.0 8422 757. 608.7 436) 436U) 4360438)
MRR CALCULATIONS
BENEFIToLLNGESWTOPAV)               0     0     0     0    0    0       0     0 345.0 600.  1006. 1210. 1210. 1219. 1210. 1210. 1210. 1219. 1210. 1219. 1219. 1219.
BENEFfT- COST                    -23.0 -100. -174. -321. -370. -4U6. -709. -791. -175. 507.6 107. 1180. 1180. 1180. 1180. 1189. 1180. 1180. 118D. 118E. 11D. 1180.
BENEFIT (COVENANTED TAR"F)                0     0     0    0      0    0      0 214.  429.  88*  750.5 75s   759.5 750s  7595 750   75w   7595 759.  75.5 759.5
BENEFfT - COST                   -236 -100. -174. -321. -m7. -456  -799. -791. -300. 2472 604.0 720.3 720.3 720.3 720.3 7203 720.3 72.  7203 720.3 7203 72&3
COAL PLANT IECONOMIC COSTS1          *                  SHUIKOU                                          INSALLED CAPACITY OPTIMION (BASED ON FUEL SAVIYNS (N
CAPACfTY COST (11KW GENJ          2830                  OPERATING AND WANT. HYDRO (ttK          28       CAPACIrY  CEASE MW                  12O0-1400   1400-tO8D
FU. CONSUM"PTIONH   W    GEN       307                  DESIGN UFE HYDRO (YEARS)                50       INCREMENTAL COST YXO-0              t1O0         125.1
COAL COST (YITON S3D)              222                  AU)UARY POWER USE (%)                   0.3      PVT  COMMISSIONING DATE AT 12%       132)        1502
FUEL COST PER KWH GEN)           0.068                  FORCED OaJAGE (Y)                       0.5     aINCREMTAL ENERGY (GWH)                27S         159
DISBURSEMENT RATE COAM PLANTS      0.1   0.3   0.4   0.2ANNUAL ORU0L (DAYS)                      7       ANNUAL FUEL SAVINGS (YXl0O6)         10.70       13.85
OPERATNG AND 1A44NANCE(YfiH  U 4                        SHADOW PRICE FACTOR CAPIAL COST   t .08   ..PV TO COMV80NINODATE AT12 %               15&4        12E8.
E-CONOMIC LIFE (YARS                30                                                                   NpY,or-,N ............. ...-21.
AUXIUARY POWER USE %                 I                                                                       E5                                       , .:05
FORCED OUTAGE %                      s                  WLLNGNESS TO PAY (YOM SOD              031
ANNUAL OVERHAUL (DAYS)              42                  COVENANTED TARIFF (IKWH SOLD)          021
IC



CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
RATE OF RETURN - FUJIAN POWER INVESTMENT PROGRAM
INVESTMENT    APACITY   COST  COST
(W) (YAM    (MY)   106   196    1337   18    130   1990   1901   1902   19               1994   19      1996   1097   1963   190   960
-2030
8HUIKOU            1400   2051   3712       24    100    174    321    380    466    800    792    482    144        40
MUYP4X              320   26       856                                                                107    218    221    212      98
8HONQYU I           S00   2830    840                                                   86    256    340    170
SHONGYU 11          300   2630    849                                                         s8   266    340    170
SHONGYUIII          300   2830    849                                                                  a6    255    340    170
SHONSYU IV          300   2U30    540                                                                         86    256    340    170
HUANENS I           350   2830    901                                                                                90    297    38    198
HUANNG IV           350   2830    091                                                                                        90    297    396    198
TOTALCAPITALCO8T(GENERATION)                24    100    174    321    369    456    886   1132   120    1212   1126   1118,               694   lo        0
FUEL                                                                                                    8     3Q     62    133    234    349    60       682
OM HYDRD                                                                                               39     39     so      48     48      48     48     48
O01M THERMAL                                                                                                  26     60      75    100    130    160    160
DS1RISUIION                                                                                            es    134    216    283    359    442    532    63
TOTAL INCFAENTALOA &DtSTROUTION                                                                       110    228    367      m      741    m     1246   1624
TOTALCOST                                   24    100    174    321    38    456    885   1132   1370   1440   1482   167   1702   1603   1444   1524 
NET GEN. HYDRO                                                                 3043   3W    89    4790   6188   783    83    83    0132   0132   0132
NET GEN. THERIAL                                                               4942   6666   718B   7295   7601   7002   9018  10413  12W0   14168  165i3
INWREMENTAL THERMAL                                                                                   100    416    716   1832   3227   4814   6702   97
SALES                                                                         8004   9272  104S9  11800  13464  1629i  16797  1846   20312  22320  24675
INCREMENTAL SALES                                                                                    1400   2985   4798   6298   7967   9813  11821  14076
BENEFIT(HUANENG PRICE)                                                                                434    925   1487   1062   2470   3042   3666   4304
BENEFIT (AVERAGE RATE)                                                                                294    627   1007   1323   1673   2061   2482   2966
NET SENEFIT(HUANENQ PRICE)                 -24   -100   -174   -321   -0   -456   -S  -1132   -946   -616              6    296    768   1479   2220   2840
NETBENEFIT(AVERAGERATE)                    -24   -100   -174   -321   -30   -         -      -1132  -1085   -813   -475   -33      -29    498   1038   1432
ARORIUANEtNtV.UCE)                :s     10N:.0%.....  
'OR ;AVERA'E RATE)  11E.4        LRAIC THERMAL ANNUITY PER KW INSTALLFD          409 YiIW   inc. (DC for dlsb.: 10%, 30%.40%.20%)
LAAI *                   Q....  YA0%                         OSM PER KW INSTALLED             85 YhkW   (36 captal coa) 
TOTAL PER NET, FIRM KW         664 YikW   (80% availability. 7% awdfladue) 
CAPACffYCOSTPERKWHSOLD  0.113 YhWh  7% Load Factor. 7% o_es)
LRAIC SHUIKOU ALONE               0.187 YAWh                          FUEL PER KWH SOLD             0.07B YAWh
T&D                           0.045 YfAWi
Saf ultMtytolou cost mulllpil                     0.00                TOTAL COST PER KWH SOLD       0.23B YAWh



- 118 -                           hZ,8.1
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Avail ble in the Project File
The Staff Appraisal Report for the first-phase project (Report No.
6189-CHA) contains a list of 31 documents, available from the project file for
Loan 2775-CHA.
The following additional documents have been forwarded to the
project file for the proposed project:
A. Selected ReRorts and Studies
1.                                                            September 1951
Comprehensive Economic Evaluation of the
Tieline Between Fujian and East China
Grids - by Beijing Economic Research
Institute for Water Resources and
Hydroelectric Power.
2.          Information for Preappraisal for Second           April 1990
Phase Loan, FPEPB
3.          Information for Appraisal for Second Phase        June 1991
Loan, FPEPB
4.          Summary Report on Execution of                    October 1991
Environmental Evaluation, ECIDI
5.          Environmental Management Plan, ECIDI              August 1991
6.          Contract between FPEPB and ECIDI for              December 1991
Independent Evaluation of Resettlement
B. Selected Work Sheets
1.          Work Sheets for FPEPBA Financial Forecast
2.          PCCOSTAB Cost Estimates



MAP SECTION



1 3RI) 23596R
7'-.      sseMsraaus                                                    8(                                                          rhis mop has been p1repared
PO-:   h-OWe   ,        ,     ,,by The World  Bank s staff
X  Tk,                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~euclus,sely for the conuenionce
QE c    29 -"                                                                             of reader; ond  is for  fhe
internol use of The World Bank-
Group The denominations used  '
QN1,-                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and  the  boundones  shoern
G-on Ph,s mnao do nat uply on the
Lfx3 ,555hYI~lt h,jPU   5 ' )  %               part of The World Son Group,
ony judyment on the legal
staSus oa ony territoly or anr
endorsement or occeptance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~such boundaries
!    9  >    c   4/~~~~~Fujiio                                                   \
#?~~~           ~~~ DM< KK pux 
ow           h5Jm    C   unlNlu    28-                                    ,                                        ZHEJlANG                                 28
106'                                1067
Al~~~~~~
Guxion       - 
Jl4NGXI                           shoowo                           G uanqioo
/                                           I \                                           -Y 
-27-                               -                 /             \'                                              Gongtn       __-                               27'
4 Mouwu             \X
{   Chilon  __       n      9 ,             Nonping
raatt;qson u Shoxik 
X                 \          <<$hou ~                           Gallton                A
26- -&       I                     sAolh ong t\0 uBeiIio26
S   (        e.                                                            uiko g                 -no  |     Hongdnlioo
js4  .  -   \   onmig                     NjI
26'                          ~~~~~~      ~~~~~Ans h  ona                                                                                               26'-
YHngon      -
.'  ,+   X     >,   I                '      V + v               0 //H u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hshi
['5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h
-25'                                                             H .a 0          H on                                                                             2 1UiO
)~~ tongyan   ~~~~-                                                                                         28n'
O~\%   (Rutssabab   Nnr n'        ngkrn  A          Lini 4~                 $fsandou
~'  ;     aomt nSECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC
Non~~h                    PROJECT
/ -                 */"  \   1.'9   -Dodss  FUJIAN PROVINCE POWER GRID
"'v'  '  -   '            /''-'             's'                  ~~UNM
g .-                1/         . -~                __ _    ,,__-                             220kV Transmission lines
24                                                                                                                              I /  IW -  110UV Transmisslon lines  24-
50      (A                                        A          £              220kV Substaticns
>   )  fS'S>~r4    '                     ^      '         w ' '                10I kV Substoflons
GUANGDONG   6' > y -.',  *Thermal power plants
GUANGDONG                        i               -
' -                            -   Hydropower plants
Riers
SOUTH                                       T                              Pronce boundQdes
(                       CH H   NA                                                     -nternallonol boundaries
2,)                          S EA                                         ,       2,5     5       75     100
/ 
106'                               107-                              198'                            109°                              110'
JULY 1992



