Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18970
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 3515-CHA)
February 17, 1999
Energy and Mining Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Yuan (Y)
At Appraisal of first loan (March 1986) $1 = Y 3.7
At Appraisal of second loan (July 1991) $1 = 5.35
Exchange Rates During Project Years
Year Avg.
1987   -   3.73                       1993    -   5.81
1988   -   3.73                       1994   -   8.46
1989   -   4.73                       1995    -   8.33
1990   -   5.24                       1996    -   8.30
1991   -   5.45                       1997    -   8.30
1992   -   5.77                       1998    -   8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ECIDI   -   East China Investigation and Design Institute
FIDIC   -   Federation Instructionale des Ingenieurs Conseils
FPEPB   -   Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
ICR      -   Implementation Completion Report
IERR    -   Internal Economic Rate of Return
MOE    -   Ministry of Energy
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SBC      -   Special Board of Consultants
SHPC    -   Shuikou Hydroelectric Project Corporation
SRRO   -   Shuikou Reservoir Resettlement Office
'Vice President:    Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director:   Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager:     Yoshihiko Sumi, EASEG
Task Team Leader:   Barry Trembath, EASEG



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary ......................................................i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives .................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ................................................3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...................4
D. Project Sustainability ...............................................                               15
E. Bank Perfonnance ...............................................                                     16
F. Borrower Performance ................................................                                17
G. Assessment of Outcome ................................................                               17
H. Future Operation ...............................................                                     17
I.   Key Lessons Learned ................................................                               18
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .22
Table 3: Project Timetable .26
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .26
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .27
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .28
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .29
Table 8a:  Project Costs ..........................................                                    31
Table 8b:  Project Financing ..........................................                                32
Table 9:   Economic Analysis of Power Plant ..........................................                   33
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................                        36
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................ 38
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................................                     39
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................                         39
ANNEX  1:  Projected and Actual Financial Statements of FPEPB ............................... 40
ANNEX  2:  Implementation Review  prepared by the Borrower ................................... 43
ANNEX  3:  Aide-Memoire Extract for Completion Mission ........................................ 58
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 3515-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Shuikou
Hydroelectric Project in China for which Loan 3515-CHA in the amount of $100 million
was approved on September 1, 1992 and made effective on January 13, 1993. It was the
second of two loans for the Shuikou dam and power plant, the first being Loan 2775-CHA,
approved on January 15, 1987. This somewhat unusual approach was adopted because of
the long implementation period and monolithic nature of the project facilities.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1998, 18 months beyond the date originally
envisaged. Final disbursement was made on November 4, 1998 when the balance of the
loan ($14,380,659.51) was canceled. An ICR for the first loan was issued on June28, 1996
(Report No. 15843). At the time of preparation of that ICR, construction of the
hydroelectric project facilities and associated resettlement was nearing completion. This
ICR updates the earlier one, particularly with regard to resettlement which is now complete,
additional scope covered by the second loan, final project cost, economic performance and
FPEPB financial performance.
The ICR was prepared by Barry Trembath, Energy and Mining Development Sector Unit of
the East Asia and Pacific Region, and reviewed by Mr. Noureddine Berrah, Acting Unit
Chief. The Borrower/Beneficiary provided comments, which are incorporated in the ICR,
its own completion report, an executive summary of which is included as an annex to the
ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during a completion mission in October, 1997,
during which the Beneficiary's draft completion report was received. Based on comments
made in the mission aide memoire, a revised version was forwarded to the Bank on January
25, 1998. With the extension of the closing date until June 30, 1998, a further update was
requested on certain items and these were received during a brief visit to Fujian in July,
1998. This ICR is based on these documents and discussions with Beneficiary staff and
consultants, Staff Appraisal Reports for the first and second loans, the Loan and Project
Agreements, Supervision Reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower/Beneficiary, and internal Bank memoranda



; 3 * i; . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ww
P                                                                                                            I
I%~~~~~~~~~~~~ z   
t   91;   _ L _ ;        t              ;   *         5_            #  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r~
fi f  ! <  E~~
..   .  .  .   .   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 3515-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    The objectives of the first phase project were to: (a) develop a major hydroelectric
site to serve the Fujian and East China grids; (b) introduce the latest technology for dam and
power station construction; (c) link the East China and Fujian power grids, (d) promote
effective integrated operation of a major regional grid; (e) upgrade the capability of the
FPEPB in financial management and management of large civil works contracts; and (f)
enhance environmental and resettlement policies. The objectives of the second-phase
project included the above, except that MOE and FPEPB had decided not to build the tie-
line at that stage. Improving power pricing arrangements in the province was added as an
additional objective. An addition to project objectives occurred in July, 1996 when the
Board approved (on a no-objection basis) the addition of a new project component which
provided for strengthening of transmission lines to the south. The full description and
appraisal of this component is described in a Memorandum of the President dated July 10,
1996.
2.    The second project first provided for the completion of the Shuikou Hydroelectric
Dam and powerplant comprising: (a) a 101 m high concrete gravity dam, a spillway, a
powerhouse, a navigation lock and appurtenant works at Shuikou on the Min River in
Fujian Province; (b) seven generating units of 200 MW each and associated electrical and
mechanical equipment; (c) switchyard and transmission to connect to the Fujian
Provincial Grid; (d) resettlement of about 63,000 people in the reservoir area; (d)
consulting services for design and construction management; and (f) studies and staff
training. The second project also included: (a) construction of a supervisory control and
data acquisition system (SCADA) system for the Fujian Province Grid; (b) completion of
system planning and operation studies commenced under the first project, and (c) a new
study to reevaluate the hydro-inventory of Fujian province; (d) implementation of an
action plan for tariff reform; and (e) provision of technical assistance and training
programs in financial management and project related technology and management. The
new component, added in 1996, consisted of the following 500 kV transmission lines and
substations: (a) a transmission line from Shuikou Power Plant to Guanqiao via Huian, a
total line length of 206.5 km (111.5 km upgraded from 220 kV and 95 km of new line)



ii
(b) a substation with main transformer capacity of 900 MVA at the Shuikou Power Plant;
and (c) a substation with the main transformer capacity of 900 MVA at Guanqiao.
3.    The objectives carried over from the first project continued to be realistic, relevant
and important, and to reflect Government and Bank strategy for the sector. The
additional objective of the second project, improving power pricing arrangements, was
relevant and important in that it reflected the developing policy dialogue between the
Bank and the Chinese Government. The objective, as stated, was realistic; however, the
pace at which reform could be achieved, as spelled out in the implementation plan,
proved to be overly optimistic.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project achieved its primary objective of developing a major hydroelectric
site. The ex-post IERR (based on a minimum proxy of "willingness to pay") at 26
percent substantially exceeds the expectation of 19 percent. Modern technology for dam
and power station construction was successfully introduced, enabling the project civil
works to be completed generally on schedule, despite setbacks from force majeure events.
The objective of promoting effective integrated operation of a major grid was achieved
with the completion of studies and the carrying forward of their results into FPEPB
operations and subsequent investments. The objective of upgrading local capabilities in
management of large civil works contracts was convincingly demonstrated when the
executing agency, FPEPB and its construction manager, Shuikou Hydroelectric Project
Corporation (SHPC), played a major role in overcoming initial delays during project
implementation, and filling the reservoir on schedule. The resettlement task fully
achieved its objectives of relocating affected people in a timely manner and establishing
new production systems to enable them to restore their livelihoods. By the end of 1996,
average income level of the resettlers, after allowing for inflation had substantially
surpassed the before moving level. On the physical side, both size and standard of
housing had improved as had infrastructure and community facilities. The objective of
reforming power pricing arrangements at the consumer level was achieved with the
elimination of the multiple tier pricing system which was completed in October, 1997.
5.    Key dates in relation to civil works were essentially met, and the reservoir
impoundment started on April 2, 1993. Commissioning of generating units were delayed
because of delays in supply of turbine and generator components. Initial delays were
limited, varying from two to seven months for Units 1 to 4, but, casting defects resulted
in delays increasing to an average of 12 months for Units 5 and 6 and 19 months for Unit
7. However, these delays had little negative impact on energy production since initial
periods of delay generally covered dry season months and, in the case of later units,
efficient operation of available generating capacity was successful in reducing spill to a
minimum, thus utilizing almost all available flow to generate energy. At the same time,
capacity additions kept pace with the demand for peaking capacity in the Fujian grid.



iii
6.    With regard to final costs in comparison with those estimated at the time of
appraisal of the second loan, for the dam and power plant there was a cost overrun of 4.9
percent when expressed in US dollars and 27.3 percent when expressed in local currency.
Differences in the overrun figures are due to the higher-than-expected inflation in China
(67 percent between 1992 to 1996 compared with 21.5 percent estimated) and the
devaluation of the local currency from an exchange rate of Y5.35 to the dollar at the time
of appraisal to Y8.46 to the $1 in 1994. The comparison of costs expressed in US dollars
is considered to give a reasonable estimate of cost overrun excluding the effects of
inflation and devaluation. There is therefore relatively good agreement between costs
estimated at appraisal of the second loan and final costs. Final costs for other
components were reasonably close to those estimated (and generally lower) except for the
ship-lift, comprising a relatively small proportion of the Bank loan, where costs were
considerably underestimated
7.    The resettlement task was carried out according to plan with 67,239 persons in
rural areas being physically relocated. In addition, some 17,215 urban residents in
Nanping city, at the upstream end of the reservoir, were relocated as part of a project to
re-develop the Min River foreshore and raise flood protection. In the rural areas, by the
end of June 1997, 38,439 jobs had been created, exceeding the total requirement. An
independent evaluation indicated that by the end of 1996, average income level of the
resettlers, after allowing for inflation, had surpassed the before moving level by 44
percent. On the physical side, per capita housing space increased from 30.0m2 to 37.9 rn2
and inundated infrastructure and community facilities had been fully replaced, generally
to a higher standard
8.    All elements are present to ensure sustainability of the project. Technically, the
finished hydroelectric development is of good quality and the units have operated at a
high availability over the initial operating period of up to five years. Financially, the
pricing arrangements for the plant output are already demonstrating very satisfactory
financial and economic returns. On the institutional side, the upgrading of local
capabilities in design and management of hydroelectric construction has already been
carried over to future operations. The resettlement and rehabilitation is sustainable since
an economic base has been established that will provide households with a flow of annual
revenues. The replacement of rice agriculture with orchards and newly developed
sidelines and light industrial activities have the further potential to significantly improve
standards of living on an ongoing basis.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
9.    The objectives of the project were consistent with those of the Chinese
Government and the Bank and the project achieved its major objectives. The outcome is
rated as highly satisfactory, and sustainability as likely.
10.   The project commenced operation in August 1, 1993 with the commissioning of
the first generating unit. In 1995, with only four units in operation for most of the year,



iv
the output of the power plant was 4,763 GWh, which is only slightly below the design
output in an average year with all units operating. In 1997, the first year with all units
operating, generation was 6070 GWh, 23 percent above the design output. Total
generation by the end of 1998 had generated revenue to the power plant approximately
equal to the construction cost of the dam and powerhouse including interest during
construction. The Shuikou power plant has already been accredited as fully meeting the
standards established by the State Power Corporation, which cover safety, reliability and
efficiency. Resettlement activities are continuing with future funding being largely
provided by the reservoir development fund which will generate income based on energy
production of about Y20 million per year
11.   The key lessons to be learned from this project are:
(a)   The two stage loan arrangement achieved its objectives. The use of the
Adjustable Program Loan, which has now been added to the Bank's
product line, should be considered for similar future operations.
(b)   Shuikou resettlement was carried out successfully, which can be attributed
to several factors, some of which are project specific and others which are
more general and offer some opportunity for replication elsewhere.
Among the factors which might be replicated elsewhere are: (a) the
enlightened policies of central and provincial governments, supplemented
by the preferential policies and incentives established by the provincial
government in the reservoir area; (b) the strong institutional framework for
resettlement; (c) the planning process which commenced well ahead of the
project, in consultation with local government down to village level; (d)
the open, fair, participatory and flexible approach adopted during
implementation; (e) the flexibility shown by government agencies in
adjusting resettlement budgets for inflation, more detailed planning and
unforeseen circumstances, and the strong support of FPEPB in obtaining
additional funding; and (f) the independent evaluation of resettlement,
which provided early feedback on the successes and weaknesses of the
resettlement process. Despite these successes, it is considered that there is
room for improvement in the process which should be taken into account
in future projects: (a) the resettlement office and relevant government
departments should play an even greater role in supervision and technical
assistance, particularly in income restoration activities; (b) resettlement
planning should be even further advanced at appraisal stage and estimates
of remaining land resources need to be more realistic; (c) implementation
of resettlement should also be advanced as much as possible, particularly
land development for agricultural activities; (d) the budget adjustment
process should provide for automatic adjustment of inflation.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SECOND SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 3515-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The objectives of the first phase project were to: (a) develop a major hydroelectric
site to serve the Fujian and East China grids; (b) introduce the latest technology for dam and
power station construction; (c) link the East China and Fujian power grids, (d) promote
effective integrated operation of a major regional grid; (e) upgrade the capability of the
FPEPB in financial management and management of large civil works contracts; and (f)
enhance environmental and resettlement policies. The objectives of the second-phase
project included the above, except that MOE and FPEPB had decided not to build the tie-
line at that stage. Improving power pricing arrangernents in the province was added as an
additional objective.
2.    The Phase 2 project first provided for the completion of the Shuikou Hydroelectric
Scheme with the following components:
(a)   construction of a 101 m high concrete gravity dam, a spillway, a
powerhouse, a navigation lock and appurtenant works at Shuikou on the
Min River;
(b)   provision and installation of seven generating units of 200 MW each and
associated electrical and mechanical equipment;
(c)   switchyard and transmission to connect the project to the FPG;
(d)   environmental management and resettlement of some 67,000 people in the
reservoir area;
(e)   consulting services for design and construction management;
The second phase project also included:
(a)   construction of a supervisory control and data acquisition system (SCADA)
system for the Fujian Province Grid:



2
(b)   completion of system planning and operation studies commenced under the
first project, and a new study to reevaluate the hydro-mventory of Fujian
province;
(c)   implementation of an action plan for tariff reform; and
(d)   provision of technical assistance and training programs in financial
management and project related technology and management.
3.    The development of Shuikou reservoir area with resettlement and rehabilitation of
67,000 people while not singled out as a specific development objective, was to be
undertaken in the context of the Chinese legal framework for resettlement and Bank
policies and procedures for involuntary resettlement (OMS 2.33 and OPN 10.08 for first
loan and OD 4.30 for second loan), which called for the relocation of the reservoir
population in a manner that would leave them after relocation as well off as before,
possibly better. To this end, a detailed resettlement plan was prepared in 1984 for the
resettlement and rehabilitation of 67,000 persons living in 89 villages, 16 townships, and
four counties at a cost of Y410 million (1986 prices).
4.    An addition to project objectives occurred on July, 24 1996 when the Board
approved (on a no-objection basis) the addition a new project component which provided
for strengthening of transmission lines to the south. The full description and appraisal of
this component is described in a Memorandum of the President dated July 10, 1996. A
summary of the background leading to this new component and its description, follow:
5.    During appraisal of the second phase project, the Bank had agreed with the
Borrower that, due to exceptional load growth in the Fujian grid, interconnection to the
East China grid in the north to export Shuikou power was no longer viable since Fujian
would be able to absorb the full output of the power plant. After appraisal of the second
loan, the province experienced even more rapid economic development, with GDP
growing at an average annual rate of 23.4 percent from 1992 to 1994 with corresponding
annual increases in peak demand and generation of 19.7 percent and 17.5 percent
respectively. Much of this growth was concentrated in the southeastern part of the
province where foreign invested industries were concentrated, where annual growth rates
for peak demand and energy reached 28.5 percent and 30 percent respectively. Thus,
over a period of seven years the power flow pattern in the grid has changed from a
predominantly south-north flow envisaged during the appraisal of the first project to a
strong north-south flow. More power needed to be sent to the south from Shuikou and
the three circuits of the 220 kV transmission line from Shuikou to Huian, constructed in
parallel with the second phase project, would not be able to accommodate the required
transfers.
6.    Based on the above factors, the Borrower requested, and the Bank agreed, to use
savings from the second loan to add a new component comprising:



3
(a)   Supply and erection of a 500 kV transmission line from Shuikou Power
Plant to Guanqiao via Huian. The total line length would be 206.5 kin, of
which the existing 111.5 km of Shuikou-Huian double circuit line would
be upgraded from 220 kV to 500 kV and a 95 km new line would be
constructed from Huian to Guanqiao.
(b)   Construction of a 500 kV step-up substation with the main transformer
capacity of 900 MVA at the Shuikou Power Plant switchyard using the
reserved space.
(c)   Construction of a 500 kV substation with the main transformer capacity of
900 MVA at Guanqiao.
7.    The objectives were clearly stated in the appraisal report and, in relation to the
additional component, in the Memorandum of the President relating to that component..
The objectives carried over from the first project continued to be realistic, relevant,
important, and reflect Government and Bank strategy for the sector. The additional
objective of the second project, improving power pricing arrangements, was relevant and
important in that it reflected the developing policy dialogue between the Bank and the
Chinese Government. The objective, as stated, was realistic; however, the pace at which
reform could be achieved, as spelled out in the implementation plan, proved to be overly
optimistic.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    The project achieved its primary objective of developing a major hydroelectric
site. Despite some delays in project implementation, the ex-post IERR (based on a
minimum proxy of "willingness to pay") at 26 percent substantially exceeds the
expectation of 19 percent mainly because: (a) demonstrated "willingness to pay" is
greater than original estimates; and (b) power and energy is entirely absorbed by the
Fujian grid, obviating the need to construct a long transmission line to connect to East
China. By the end of 1998, two years after completion of commissioning of the power
station, cumulative revenue earned by the power plant (as a profit center) approximated
the cost of the dam, power plant and reservoir works including interest during
construction.
9.    The modem technology for dam and power station construction was successfully
introduced. This enabled the project civil works to be completed generally on schedule,
despite setbacks from force majeure events. The modern construction techniques
pioneered at Shuikou are now being accepted as the norm for large projects in China,
validating the "demonstration" strategy.
10.   The objective of promoting effective integrated operation of a major grid has been
achieved with the completion of studies and the carrying forward of their results into
FPEPB operations and subsequent investments. While the Fujian grid is smaller than that



4
of East China-originally envisaged as the target of the studies, its projected size in the
year 2000 (in terms of installed capacity) is in the same order as that of the East China
Grid at the time of project appraisal.
11.   The objective of upgrading local capabilities in management of large civil works
contracts was convincingly demonstrated when the executing agency, FPEPB and its
construction manager, Shuikou Hydroelectric Project Corporation (SHPC), played a
major role in overcoming initial delays during project implementation, and filling the
reservoir on schedule.
12.   The resettlement task fully achieved its objectives of relocating all affected people
in a timely manner and establishing new production systems to enable them to restore,
and preferably improve their livelihoods. By the end of 1996, average income level of
the resettlers, after allowing for inflation had already surpassed the before moving level
by 44 percent, and this situation was expected to improve as more newly planted orchards
come into production. On the physical side, both size and standard of housing had
improved as had infrastructure and community facilities.
13.   The objective of reforming power pricing arrangements at the consumer level was
largely achieved with the elimination of the multiple tier pricing system which was
completed in October, 1997. Adjustment to tariff structure to better reflect costs were
made, but this was only partly successful because of the structure of surcharges added by
local governments. However, it is worthy of note that, largely due to Bank focus in
projects such as Shuikou, tariff structure reform has become a primary objective of
central government agencies responsible for regulation of the sector. The principle of a
unified tariff structure: "all consumers of a particular category connected to a particular
grid paying the same price" is now incorporated in the Electricity Law. In addition, the
government has now decreed that local surcharges, responsible for distortion of tariff
level and structure, are illegal and should be eliminated throughout China.
Implementation of both of these measures is underway and is expected to be completed
by the end of 1999.
14.   The objective of the new transmission component, to provide the capability to
deliver more power to the fast growing areas in the south, was achieved with the
commissioning of the new 500 kV substations and lines in March, 1998. The
transmission lines operated at full capacity throughout the 1998 high flow season.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Organization
15.   FPEPB was the executing agency for the project. For the Shuikou power plant a
special organization, SBPC, was set up to manage construction of the project and
exercise the functions of the engineer under the Federation Instructionale des Ingenieurs
Conseils (FIDIC) Conditions of Contract. East China Investigation and Design Institute



5
(ECIDI) served as the designer. The contract for the main civil works was awarded to a
Chinese-foreign construction joint venture while the contract for the installation of
electro-mechanical equipment was awarded to an experienced national level construction
bureau after local competitive bidding. Resettlement in the reservoir area was managed
by the Shuikou Reservoir Resettlement Office (SRRO), a special unit established by the
Fujian Provincial Government for this purpose. International consultants were employed
to assist SHPC in all aspects of construction and contract management, and ECIDI in
design management and the review of bid documents. A Special Board of Consultants
(SBC) was also appointed to review and comment at various stages during design and
construction on the major technical issues, scheduling, management, environment, and
resettlement.
Dam and Power Plant Construction
Overall Progress in Comparison with Schedule in SAR
16.   The implementation schedule established in the SAR provided for commencement
of the main civil works in January 1987, commissioning of the first unit after 61/ years
(June 1993) with the six subsequent units commissioned at four month intervals. The
schedule was demanding, even by the standards of an experienced international
contractor.
17.   With the joint efforts of all concerned parties, many difficulties and problems
were overcome, key dates in relation to civil works were essentially met, and the
reservoir impoundment started on schedule on April 2, 1993. Generating unit
commissionings were delayed because of delays in supply of turbine and generator
components. Initial delays were limited, varying from two to seven months for Units 1 to
4, but casting defects in the very large turbine runner components resulted in delays
increasing to an average of 12 months for Units 5 and 6 and 19 months for Unit 7.
However, these delays had little negative impact on energy production since initial
periods of delay generally covered dry season months and, in the case of later units,
efficient operation of available generating capacity was successful in reducing spill to a
minimum, thus utilizing almost all available energy. At the same time, peaking capacity
additions kept pace with the demand growth of the Fujian grid
Main Civil Works Contract
18.   A detailed review of the implementation of this contract is presented in the ICR
for the first project, and it is not intended to repeat it here since the contract was
essentially completed at the time of the first ICR. In summary, the contractor with the
support of FPEPB, SHPC and MOE, overcame great difficulties to meet the target dates
for commencement of reservoir impoundment on April 2, 1993. Remaining civil work
after reservoir filling were power house second stage concreting and roof completion, and
finishing and architectural work. These were duly completed and the Completion and
Maintenance certificates were issued on May 25, 1996, and May 25, 1997 respectively.



6
Supply of the Generating Unit Equipment
19.      After ICB, the contract for the first two generating units was awarded to a
foreign/Chinese joint venture. This contract was financed by the Bank. The contract for
the remaining five units, not financed by the Bank, was awarded to the Chinese partner of
the joint venture. Subsequently, the Bank indicated no objection to an extension of the
ICB contract, to cover specialized components (governors and exciters) for all seven
units.
20.      Contracts for all seven generating units were signed in August 1988. However,
for reasons beyond the control of FPEPB or the contractor, as explained in the previous
ICR, the issue of the Letter of Credit was not issued until the end of 1989, a delay of
almost one year compared to the contract stipulations. The manufacturing schedule and
equipment delivery schedule were correspondingly affected. The following table shows
the contractual vs. actual equipment delivery for each of the seven units.
Equipment Delivery - Units 1 to 7
r                                                                                                            I
Unit I           Unit 2          Unit 3           Unit 4           Unit 5         Unit 6          Unit 7
Item    Contract' Actual Contract Actual Contract Actual Contract Actual Contract Actual Contract Actual Contract Actual:
l            Date    Date    Date    Date    Date    Date    Date    Date    Date   Date   Date   Date   Date   Date
Emnbedded   05/91 1 01/92   08/91   06/92   05/93   06/93   07/93   08/93   11/93 | 03/94   05/94   08/94   07/94   10/95
parts
{Distributor  08/91 l 05/92   12/91   09/92 i 10/93   05/94   01/94   09/94   06/94   04/95   10/94   06/95   02/95   4/96
psystem            !!1                                                                       
Runner      05/91 l 12/91    12/91   12/91 1 10/93   02/94   01/94   07/94   05/94   05/95   09/94   08/95   04/95   8/96,
issemblies
Stator      12/91 i 06/92   03/92   02/93   08/93   01/94   11/93   04/94   03/94 i 10/94   07/94   02/95   04/95   4/96
assemblies                          I
Rotor       03/92 I 11/92   06/92   06/93   10/93   03/94   02/94   07/94   04/94 302/95  08/94   08/95  04/95   5/96
|ssemblies
NMain Shaft  12/91   11/92   06/92   05/93   12/93   04/94   02/94   07/94   06/94  05/95   10/94   08/95  04/95   8/96
Thrust head  09/92   01/93   09/92   07/93   10/93   04/94   02/94   07/94   06/94   05/95   10/94   08/95   04/95   8/96
and0support 9/92
IThrust     09/92 'i 09/92   09/92   09/92   12/93   05/94   03/94   09/94   06/94 I06/95   10/94   09/95   04/95   8/96
bearings           3
IUpper       12/91   12/92   03/92 | 02/93   10/93   12/93   02/94   09/94   06/94  06/95   10/94   06/95   04/95   1 9/96
bracket
Notes: 1. The equipment delivery of units 1 and 2 refer to the date stipulated in the international
contract.
2. The equipment delivery of units 3-7 refer to the date stipulated in the supplementary
agreement of units 3-7.



7
Mechanical and Electrical Installation
21.   The electrical and mechanical installation contract was signed in January 1991,
and the contractor commenced mobilization on site in March 1991. The execution bay
and bridge crane were handed over to him in December 1991 and the Unit 1 area was
handed over in February 1992. According to the provisions of the contract, the
installation duration for each unit was 18 months counted from the installation of stay
ring to completion of 72-hour trial operation with units commissioned at four intervals.
With contributions from other concerned parties, the installation contractor was able to
reduce the effect of delayed equipment deliveries and expedite the installation work to
catch up some of the time lost through delayed deliveries. The installation time and
commissioning date of units 1 through 7 are shown in the following table, which shows
that even for the first unit the erection period was three months less than the contract
period, with progressive reduction in the erection period for subsequent units, reducing to
10.5 months-or 7.5 months less than the contract period--for the sixth unit, and only
increasing slightly to 11.7 months for the seventh unit, despite the complexities of
erection and second stage concreting in the fully enclosed powerhouse. The performance
of the erection contractor in achieving these dates must be rated as outstanding.
Installation Progress for Shuikou Units 1 to 7
Item       Unit 1     Unit 2     Unit 3    Unit 4     Unit 5    Unit 6     Unit 7
Installation      15       13.5       12.5       11         12        10.5      11.7
duration
(month)
Including:       107        90         87        80         98        70         80
second stage                                              (incl.
conc. placing                                            holiday)
time (day)
Operation date   08/01/93   02/08/94   09/02/94   12/28/94   11/06/95   12/28/95   12/05/96
Operation date   05/31/93   09/30/93   01/31/94   05/31/94   09/30/94   01/31/95   05/31/95
established in
SAR
Actual vs.        2          4         7          7         13         11        19
Target (month
delayed)
Spillway Gate Supply and Installation
22.   This equipment was designed by ECIDI, and most components were supplied by
local manufacturers, with only certain specialized components being imported. Erection
was carried out by the main civil works contractor. While no difficulties were
experienced in supply and installation, some difficulties were experienced in raising the



8
gates, arising from the previously untested design. Modifications to overcome the
problems were designed, implemented on a pilot basis on one gate in the 1996-97 dry
season, and when proven successful, applied to all gates in the next dry season.
Navigation Facilities
23.   Navigation facilities included in the scope of the first project were a three flight
ship-lock to accommodate two 500 ton ships and a raft lift to accommodate a 10.5m x
64m x lm timber and bamboo raft. The transportation capacity of the ship-lock was
estimated at 3.2 million tons per year, while that of the raft-lift was 1.6 million m3 per
year. By the time of the appraisal of the second loan in mid-1991, FPEPB had decided to
upgrade these facilities to convert the raft lift to a vertical ship-lift which could also
accommodate two 500 ton ships at the same time. The ship-lift was therefore included in
the additional scope of the second project.
24.   Ship-Lock. As detailed in the previous ICR, during filling of the lock in October,
1994, some cracking was observed in bottom slabs and walls of the lock chambers, and
commissioning and trial operations were suspended. An eight member expert panel
recommended comprehensive treatment measures, which were subsequently
implemented, being completed in September 1995. Based on initial operating
experience, it was then decided to replace domestic hydraulic equipment and electric
control elements with imported equipment to ensure reliable and stable operation of the
ship-lock in the long-term. This was carried out in the following dry season, and was
completed in November, 1996.
25.   While the reinforcing measures generally solved the structural and leakage
problems, FPEPB, anxious to ensure long term stability and trouble-free operation,
commissioned another design review. Emanating from this review were
recommendations for further reinforcement measures and these were implemented in the
following dry season. Operation is now fully satisfactory.
26.   Ship-Lift. From the outset, it was planned that, as far as possible, the ship-lift
would be constructed using local resources, and that Bank finance would only be used for
components that needed to be imported. The amount of the Bank loan projected to be
expended on this component was only $5.9 million or 5.9 percent of the loan amount. In
addition, FPEPB had agreed with central government agencies that an additional
unquantifiable benefit of constructing the Shuikou ship-lift would be to provide prototype
experience for the much larger ship-lift planned for the Three Gorges Project. Taking
these factors into account, the Bank did not fully appraise this part of the project.
27.   The construction of the ship-lift was delayed substantially in comparison to the
schedule presented in the SAR for the second loan. This schedule showed erection
completed by the end of 1995, whereas it was not completed until mid-1998. Therefore
the planned one year testing and trial operation period will not be completed until mid-
1999. About half the delay was in the design and procurement process with the
remainder occurring during the construction process. The initial delay can generally be



9
attributed to the fact that the level of design of this project component was only at a
preliminary stage at project appraisal, and that the precedents available for design of a
facility of this size were very limited. Therefore, the design development was slow and
subject to extensive review by local and international experts. Moreover, early in the
detailed design process, it was decided to build a large integrated physical model to test
and validate various aspects of the mechanical, electrical and electronic design. This
model was built in Nanjing over the period September 1993 to March 1994, and tested
over the next seven months. The delays during the construction were due to much more
difficult construction processes than originally anticipated.
28.   The civil contract for the ship-lift was awarded to Minjiang Construction
Company, and the Twelfth Construction Bureau, Chinese members of the joint venture
that constructed the dam and power station civil works. The main item of note in the
civil work construction was the necessity to maintain vertical tolerance in the 73 m high
towers of less than 12 mm. This objective was achieved and earned a special award from
the State Power Corporation.
29.   Local equipment design and supply was awarded as a single responsibility
contract to a joint venture led by Wuhan Ship Building Corporation, and this was later
extended to cover installation. As far as it is known, this is the first example in China of
a single responsibility contract for complex equipment of this type. The specifications
and tolerances demanded of the equipment suppliers were also very challenging. Major
achievements included the river transportation (towed by tugs) of the chamber (123 m
long x 18.6 m wide x 7.6 m high a 1400 t); and the machining of the upstream and
downstream working gates, the 3.5 m lifting drum to close tolerances, and the 2.8 m dia.
hard surface gears for the retarding device.
Resettlement
30.   The resettlement task was carried out according to plan with 67,239 persons in
rural areas being physically relocated. In addition, some 17,215 urban residents in
Nanping city, at the. upstream end of the reservoir, were relocated as part of a project to
re-develop the Min River foreshore and raise flood protection standards. This project was
catalyzed by the projected modest increase in flood levels in the area due to the Shuikou
project. The Nanping City resettlement was not included in the original resettlement plan
since: it was regarded as a separate, parallel activity with scope extending considerably
beyond simple resettlement; was managed by a different agency; and it did not require
any income restoration activities, only reconstruction of infrastructure and housing.
However, the Shuikou project contributed compensation funds to the overall re-
development budget.
31.   Early on in project supervision, the Bank promoted the initiation of an
Independent Evaluation of Resettlement. This evaluation by ECIDI took place over a
five year period (1992 to 1996) and involved samples of 524 households and 35 villages.
The annual reports of the evaluation proved particularly valuable in providing FPEPB,



10
SRRO and the Bank with regular feedback as to achievements and outstanding problems.
The Independent Evaluation is the first of its kind in China and provides a thorough case
study.
32.   In the rural areas, by the end of June 1997, 38,439 jobs had been created,
exceeding the total requirement. Of these, 52 percent involved non-farm or non-land-
based activities. By the end of 1995 (the last year of the independent evaluation), average
income level of the resettlers, after allowing for inflation, had surpassed the before
moving level by 14.5 percent, and a later "town level" survey indicated that, by the end of
1996, this had further increased to 44 percent. On the physical side, per capita housing
space increased from 30.0m2 to 37.9 m2 and inundated infrastructure and community
facilities had been fully replaced, generally to a higher standard. To date Y1,220 million
of the finally approved budget of Y1423.6 million had been spent on resettlement and
rehabilitation. The original budget was Y410 million (1984).
33.   For reasons given above, no detailed follow-up evaluation was carried out in
relation to the Nanping City urban redevelopment, but from inspection of the redeveloped
area and interviews with relocated people, its success is evident.
Environment
34.   An environmental management plan prepared for the appraisal of the second loan
grouped activities into four categories: environmental protection, environmental
monitoring, special studies and instrumentation, equipment and training.
35.   The three major items under environmental protection were relocation of water
supply intakes, reconstruction of navigation facilities, and afforestation of construction
site areas. Water supply intakes needed to be relocated to avoid possible fouling from
downstream waste water outfalls after reservoir filling. This was accomplished well
before reservoir filling. Existing navigation facilities were also reconstructed and
considerably upgraded, in line with the anticipated use of the reservoir for navigation.
The new works covered 26 wharves of various sizes, three navigation administration
buildings, navigation channel reconstruction to accommodate 2 x 500 ton barge fleet, re-
establishment of navigation markers to Grade I of the National Standards on Inland
Navigation. An afforestation plan of the areas around the construction site was drafted in
1994, commenced execution in 1996, and was completed in 1998. (full details in the
FPEPB Executive Summary).
36.   Environmental monitoring focused on three areas: water quality monitoring
particularly in the areas of pollution inflows near Nanping City, hydrological monitoring
in the catchment and sediment deposition in the reservoir. Water quality monitoring to
date has indicated no deterioration in river water quality through Nanping City. This is
attributed to a strengthening of pollution control measures in Nanping City which has
resulted in a substantial improvement in quality of effluents discharged into the river and
the restriction of new industries to those which do not generate pollutants. In addition,
because of the small volume of the reservoir in relation to average flow, velocities



11
through the reservoir are relatively high even in the dry season. This results in efficient
flushing and dilution of pollution loads. The originally envisaged hydrological
monitoring has been expanded to include a comprehensive flood warning system, with
real time transmission of readings from precipitation and streamflow gauges to the
Shuikou power station, where projected flood hydrographs are automatically computed.
The system played an important role in flood mitigation during a large flood which
occurred on June 23, 1998. The peak inflow discharge to the Shuikou reservoir was
37,800 m3ts, which has a return period of greater than 100 years. Based on projections
from the flood warning system, the reservoir was drawn down in advance of the flood,
providing flood storage which was able to mitigate the flood, reducing peak outflow
discharge to 33,600 m3/s. FPEPB reported that without this mitigation, Fuzhou city
would have been submerged. The first survey of sediment deposition in the reservoir
since its filling was carried out in 1995. This indicated no significant deposition and a
periodic flushing of sediments. The next survey will be carried out in 2000.
37.   The special study consisted of the development of a mathematical model to enable
a study of the assimnilation capacity of the stretch of the river bordering Nanping City
after reservoir filling. This study was completed before reservoir filling, and predicted
adequate capacity to assimilate the biological load from Nanping effluents, which has
been borne out by monitoring results reported above. A small unit consisting of two to
three people has been established in the Shuikou Power Plant to be responsible for
environmental and hydrological monitoring and the flood prediction system. These staff
have received specialized training in each aspect.
Other Components
Power Grid Automation
38.   The Energy Management System (termed SCADA in the SAR) was successfully
installed, and initial operation commenced in September, 1996 with passing of site
acceptance tests of a number of functions. However, full functionality and acceptance
testing was not completed until November, 1998, when software defects in three
functions were corrected and final acceptance tests were passed'. The effect of the
Automatic Generation Control function is particularly evident from records, which show
that, over the period July 1997 to June 1998, system frequency was automatically
controlled within a range of 50 +/- 0.1 Hz for 99.56 % of time, and within +/- 0.2 % for
99.997 % of time.
l Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA), State Estimate (SE), Security Analysis (SA),
Operator Training Simulation (OTS) were accepted in September, 1996. Automatic Generation
Control (AGC) /Economnic Dispatch (ED) were accepted in May, 1997. Optimum Power Flow
(OPF), Short Term Load Forecast (SLF) and Unit Commitment (UC) were accepted in November,
1998)



12
Digital Microwave System
39.   The first stage contract, covering 20 stations, was signed in September, 1994, and
this was extended to cover an additional 11 stations in May, 1995. Installation
commenced in October, 1996 and was completed in January, 1997. While the system has
been in trial operation since September, 1997, operation has not been trouble free. The
manufacturer has accepted responsibility for the defects in the system and based on a
September, 1998 agreement, is actively pursuing a plan to remedy the defects.
New 500 kV transmission Component
40.   The new component was approved by the Board on July 24, 1996, and bidding for
equipment commenced the following month. Civil work construction commenced on
October 31, 1996, and was basically completed by the end of 1997. Equipment
installation in the substations commenced in September, 1997 and was generally
complete by January, 1998. Erection of the new section of transmission lines was
completed in November, 1997, and, during the dry season from October, 1997 to January,
1998 the Shuikou Huaian circuits were upgraded to 500 kV. The transmission lines and
substations were successfully commissioned in March, 1998. The new lines
demonstrated their usefulness in the 1998 wet season, when they generally operated at
full load
Procurement
41.   Full details of the procurement process for the Shuikou dam and power plant are
presented in the ICR for the first loan and will not be repeated here. The conclusion was
that procurement had generally been carried out efficiently, but that qualification criteria
for both contractors and suppliers should have been more rigorous. Procurement
activities throughout the duration of the second loan were related to the new components:
the ship-lift, the EMS and associated microwave communication system, and the new 500
kV transmission component.
42.   Overall there were 34 ICB contracts for this additional scope, five of which were
actually extensions of existing contracts carried out with Bank no-objection.
43.   There was only one procurement incident of note, relating to the purchase of the
energy management system. The formula combining performance and price was mis-
stated in the bid documents resulting in anomalies in the evaluation process. In addition,
it became clear during the evaluation, that performance should have been given a greater
weight in the evaluation. FPEPB and the Bank agreed to re-bidding, which was
successfully carried out in a short time. For recent contracts in China for equipment of
this type, the draft standard bidding documents for procurement of information systems
have been successfully used. Borrowers have found that the two stage bidding process
and the greater weight given to performance in evaluation have facilitated the evaluation
process and resulted in an evaluation more in accord with their own judgement.



13
Consulting Services
44.   For the first project, four main contracts were awarded for foreign consulting
services, one relating to design and construction supervision of the Shuikou Dam and
power plant and three relating to studies to upgrade FPEPB institutional capability.
Contracts with individual consultants were also signed, mainly in relation to the SBC.
45.   The execution of the consulting contract for the dam and hydropower plant was
fully detailed in the ICR for the first project, since the contract had been concluded at that
time. The overall conclusion was that the consulting services were successfully carried
out. Since the quantity and nature of services were specified by FPEPB in consultation
with the recipients of the assistance, ECIDI and SBPC, they enjoyed a high degree of
"ownership" by them. Technologies transferred to ECIDI and SHPC were highly valued
by them, and this has led to their replication in other projects under their control.
46.   The studies commenced under the first loan were completed under the second
loan. The scope of one of the studies (referred to as Study A) was extended under the
second project. In addition, three additional studies of limited scope were carried out.
These dealt with hydro inventory evaluation, consumer tariff structure, and planning and
commercial management. In addition, FPEPB implemented the full series of training
programs as envisaged in the minutes of negotiations. All studies were successfully
completed, and most have yielded results which have been carried forward into FPEPB
operations and subsequent investments (see Table 7).
Project Costs
47.   Cost estimates in the body of the SAR for the second loan refer to the costs to
complete the Shuikou dam and power plant rather than overall costs. It is considered that
overall costs provide a more meaningful comparison. Therefore for the dam and power
plant, comparisons are made with the first table of Annex 5.6 of the SAR which shows
overall costs of the dam and power plant. Separate comparisons are then made for other
components. The estimated cost of the dam and power plant at the time of appraisal of
the second loan (excluding interest during construction) was $214.22 million in foreign
costs and Y2108.33 million in local costs, equivalent to a total of $657.49 million
(Y3,189.20 million). The final cost was $181.81 million in foreign costs and Y3,913.90
million in local costs, equivalent to a total of $823.17 million (Y5,114.91 million) (see
Table 8a-lfor details). Considering overall costs (foreign plus local), there is an apparent
cost overrun of about 25 percent when expressed in US dollars and 60 percent when
expressed in local currency. However, it should be noted that there is a significant
discrepancy in scope of the appraisal estimate and final cost, in that figures for
preparatory works provided to the appraisal team evidently did not include the entire
scope of preliminary works. Neglected items included contractors and supervisors camps
and mobilization and construction power. All of these costs expenditures had actually
occurred by the time of appraisal, and their exclusion from the estimate is probably a
reflection of Chinese accounting practices at the time, if not being the intention to charge



14
them to the project. All such expenditures have been included in the final cost compiled
by FPEPB, since this now forms the basis for calculating the price of power delivered to
the grid. If the original estimates are corrected to show actual preparatory works costs,
the estimated total cost increases to $784.46 million (Y4017.19 million). Cost overruns
then reduce to 4.9 percent in dollar terms and 27.3 percent in local currency. The
difference in the two figures for cost overrun is due to the higher-than-expected-inflation
in China (67 percent between 1992 to 1996 compared with 21.5 percent estimated) and
the devaluation of the local currency from an exchange rate of Y5.43 to the dollar at the
time of appraisal to Y8.46 to the $1 in 1994 (with a slight recovery to 8.30 thereafter).
The comparison of costs expressed in US dollars is considered to give a reasonable
estimate of cost overrun excluding the effects of inflation and devaluation. After
adjusting for the missing preparatory works in the initial estimate, there is therefore
relatively good agreement between costs estimated at appraisal of the second loan and
final costs. Final costs for other components, shown in Table 8A-1, were reasonably
close to those estimated except for the ship-lift, comprising a relatively small proportion
of the Bank loan, where costs were considerably underestimated, which is attributed to
the factors outlined in para 23.
Economic Performance
48.   For the appraisal of the first loan an analysis was carried out to demonstrate that
Shuikou was part of the least-cost expansion plan for the East China Grid. For the
appraisal of the second loan a less rigorous approach was used to demonstrate that
Shuikou remained a competitive method of generation expansion. This was done by
comparing Shuikou with coal-fired power plants of equivalent capacity. The analysis
indicated an equalizing discount rate of 18.0 percent. A similar analysis was carried out
ex-ante, which yielded an equalizing discount rate of 47.1 percent. The levelized cost of
Shuikou is calculated at 21.00 fen/kWh (1997 prices, 12 percent discount rate), in
comparison with 49.0 fen/kWh for the coal alternative, strongly demonstrating that even
with modest cost overruns and completion delays, Shuikou is very economical in
comparison to thermal alternatives.
49.   At appraisal, the IERR was calculated by valuing the output of Shuikou at the
covenanted tariff and a demonstrated willingness to pay based on the selling price to the
grid of a newly commissioned thermal power plant. This analysis yielded IERRs of 13.5
and 19.1 percent for the respective cases. The "willingness to pay" type of analysis was
repeated ex-ante using prices of energy sold to the grid in 1997, plus power development
surcharges applied at provincial and local levels (averaging 8.26 fen). If the average
selling price is used, IERR is 19.6 percent. If the price at which Shuikou power is sold to
the grid is substituted for the average, the IERR increases to 20.5 percent. If the highest
price at which any power is sold to the grid (from the new Songyu thermal plant) is
substituted for the average, IERR increases to 25.8 percent (comparable to the 19.1
percent estimated at appraisal).



15
FPEPB Financial Performance
50.   Comparative financial statements containing the projected and actual amount for
the period 1991' to 1997 are summarized in Annex 1. FPEPB fixed assets in 1997
amounted to Y16,783 million, only slightly higher than the estimated Y13,259 million,
despite Shuikou project cost overruns and a 1993 asset revaluation applying to all power
companies in China which added Y1,200 million. On the other hand, FPEPB has spent
less on new generation preferring to leave this to non-utility power producers. FPEPB
borrowing was in proportion to capital expenditures so that it maintained a balanced
financial structure. The debt/ (debt+equity ratio) closely followed projections peaking at
73.4 percent in 1993 (below the covenanted 75 percent from 1992 to 1996) before falling
to 61.2 percent in 1997, well below the covenanted 70 percent.
51.   Over the seven years, from 1991 to 1997, energy sales have increased by a factor
of 2.05, an average increase of 10.7 percent per annum, reflecting the fast economic
growth in Fujian Province. The average tariff has been adjusted from 17.2 fen/kWh in
1991 to 38.4 fen/kWh in 1997 (excluding surcharges),-an increase in constant terms of
12.0 percent per annum, and 5.8 percent per annum in US$ terms Actual operating
revenues in 1997amounted to Y7.73 billion, about 4.6 times those of 1991 and 63 percent
higher than projected at appraisal. Along with the increase in revenues, operating costs
also rose rapidly, largely contributed by much higher than expected power purchase costs.
This results from changes in the power sector structure, whereby most new plants are
constructed by semi-independent joint investment partnerships which sell power to the
FPEPB grid. FPEPB role has thus largely changed to that of a purchasing and
transmission agency. This is also reflected in an increase in operating ratio to 86 percent
in 1997 in comparison with a projected 76 percent.
52.   Over the course of project implementation, the debt service ratio has been
satisfactorily kept at higher than 1.3 before 1995 and 1.5 thereafter. The self-financing
covenant was complied with in all years except 1994 when the ratio achieved was 16.5
percent in comparison with the covenanted 25 percent. This can be attributed to several
factors: (a) a change in the taxation system in 1994 which resulted in much higher
transfers to the government, concurrently with a government imposed tariff freeze for
macroeconomic purposes; and (b) peak expenditure on Shuikou concurrently with
delayed commissioning of some generators due to casting defects. In 1995 the self-
financing ratio rose to 32.3 percent, and was maintained above the covenanted value of
30 percent (applying after 1995) in 1996 and 1997. Overall therefore, it can be concluded
that FPEPB financial performance has been satisfactory.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
53.   All elements are present to ensure sustainability of the project. Technically, the
finished hydroelectric development is of good quality and the units have operated at a
high availability over the initial operating period of up to five years. Efficient and
economic operation is expected based on FPEPB past record of hydroelectric plant
operation and the arrangements for the current project, as set out in the Operational Plan.



16
Financially, the pricing arrangements for the plant output are already demonstrating very
satisfactory financial and economic returns. On the institutional side, the upgrading of
local capabilities in design and management of hydroelectric construction has already
been carried over to future operations. ECIDI has provided consulting services to local
entities in preparing projects for intemational bidding. These include at least three Bank
financed projects. SHPC is carrying out construction management capabilities to the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) financed Mienhuatan Project. The institutional
development objectives in relation to FPEPB itself have been built on and further
developed under the ADB Mienhuatian Project.
54.   The resettlement and rehabilitation is sustainable since an economic base has been
established that will provide households with a flow of annual revenues. Income targets
have been fully met on an average basis and the five percent poverty level among
resettled households is in line with non-resettled households. The replacement of rice
agriculture with orchards and newly developed sidelines and light industrial activities
have the potential to significantly improve standards of living on an ongoing basis.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
55.   Preparation of the second project commenced with an Initial Executive Project
Summary followed by a pre-appraisal in April, 1990. Main issues at that stage were
project management, whether or not the tie-line to the East China grid should be
implemented, and power pricing which was flagged as an appropriate policy component
of the project. Appraisal was carried out in June/July, 1991. While the appraisal was
generally straightforward, the mission reported that it was unable to complete the
appraisal in respect to the tie line to East China. FPEPB planned to delete the tie-line, but
the mission considered that adequate justification had not been provided. Further studies
were agreed during the mission and a follow up meeting to review the studies was carried
out in September/October, 1991. Based on the studies and discussions during the
mission, the Bank accepted the position of the Chinese side in deleting the tie-line and the
appraisal was declared completed (since FPEPB growth forecasts have now been
validated, the decision was the correct one). Negotiations occurred in July, 1992 and
Board presentation on September 1, 1992. Processing of the project was relatively slow
but this was geared to the anticipated need for additional funds beyond those provided by
the first loan. Despite the protracted preparation period, processing was quite efficient in
the use of resources with only 82 staff weeks being employed during the entire
preparation period.
56.   During implementation, the Bank supervised the project regularly, averaging
about twice per year. After commencement of filling of the reservoir in April, 1993
emphasis of supervision was on the ship-lift, resettlement and the tariff action plan. With
regard to the ship-lift, as noted earlier initial designs at appraisal were only at the
conceptual level and ECIDI, the designer, was unsure how to proceed in many areas.
Bank missions catalyzed the employment of specialist assistance which provided the
necessary momentum to proceed. In addition, Bank advice significantly influenced the



17
innovative procurement arrangements for non-Bank financed contracts which proved to
be very successful. With regard to resettlement, Bank missions had a major influence in
obtaining approvals for budget increases, maintaining focus on the rehabilitation aspect of
resettlement after completion of physical relocation and in the initiation of, and
progressive improvement of, independent evaluation reports. With regard to the tariff
action plan, Bank missions persevered in continually reminding FPEPB and provincial
government agencies of their obligations under the project agreement, worked with Asian
Development Bank to combine leverage provided by their Mianhuatan Project and the
proposed new 500 kV transmission component, to ultimately achieve the objective of
tariff unification. The Bank also contributed to the expeditious preparation and
implementation of the new transmission component. The request to finance the
additional component was received on March 11, 1996. The appraisal was carried out
from March 20 to 26, 1996. The Memorandum of President was prepared and submitted
to the regional vice president on July, 9, 1996, and approved by the Board on a no
objection basis on July 24, 1996. First bid documents were submitted for Bank review on
July 8, 1996, the first contract was signed on October 31, 1996 and by January 14, 1997,
14 of the 15 contracts had been signed.
57.  In the ICR for the first loan, Bank performance was rated Highly Satisfactory. It
is considered that this performance has been maintained throughout the course of the
second project, and the same rating is therefore applied.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
58.  In the ICR for the first loan, all organizations associated with the construction of
the Shuikou dam and hydroelectric power were rated as highly satisfactory. Successful
completion of the project, including the resettlement program, all additional components,
studies and reforms leads to reaffirmation of this rating.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
59.   The project outcome is rated as highly satisfactory. All of the development
objectives were achieved. The economic rate of return has increased in comparison with
appraisal estimates. Sustainability is highly likely, and both Borrower and Bank
performances are rated as highly satisfactory.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
60.   The project commenced operation in August 1, 1993 with the commissioning of
the first generating unit. The commissioning of the seventh and final unit occurred on
December 5, 1996. In 1995, with only four units in operation for most of the year, due to
favorable hydrology, the output of the power plant was 4,763 GWh, which is only
slightly below the design output in an average year with all units operating, i.e. 4,950
GWh. In 1997, the first year with all units operating, generation was 6070 GWh aided by
favorable hydrology. Total generation by the end of 1998 was 24,453 GWh which has



18
generated revenue approximately equal to the construction cost of the dam and
powerhouse including interest during construction.
61.   With regard to performance indicators for the power plant, the State Power
Corporation already sets benchmarks for numerous paramneters which collectively
measure safety, reliability and efficiency of operation of hydroelectric power plants.
Some of the main parameters are listed in Table 6. In addition, a different set of criteria
relate to factors such as cleanliness, aesthetics and working environment which, if met,
qualify the power plant for "civilized" status. When both of these standards are met the
power plant is accredited as having met the dual standards. A "first class" standard is
also specified involving more rigorous performance indicators for some operating
efficiency factors. The Shuikou power plant has already been accredited as meeting the
dual standards. In addition, it meets "first class" standard for all parameters except
employees per MW. To date, only three hydroelectric power plants in China meet the
"first class" standard, two of which have very large installed capacity facilitating their
compliance with the employee per MW standard.
62.   Trial operation of the ship-lock was commenced on December 26, 1995, and it
was put into public trial operation on February 10, 1996. Up until the end of 1998,
30,819 boats had passed through the lock in 3,731 passes. Total tonnage passed was
1,160,600 tons or 1,442 tons on average. Typically, the lock can pass 12 boats at one
time. Annual volumes have increased from an initial 120,000 tons per year to about
700,000 tons per year in 1998, still well below the 3.2 million ton estimated capacity of
the facility, but tonnages are projected to continue to increase as the availability and
reliability of the lock becomes more widely known, and boat sizes increase to the size
that can now navigate the river and reservoir.
63.   The FPEPB Operation Plan summarizes the arrangements made for future
operations of the power plant in terms of organization and staffing of the operating unit,
training technical and financial staff, operating procedures, regular maintenance program,
power dispatch, methodology for efficient utilization of water, dam safety procedures, the
flood and environmental monitoring. With regard to resettlement, after depletion of the
remaining budget, the reservoir development fund will generate income based on energy
production of about Y20 million per year. This should sustain the workplan of the
SRRO. With regard to environmental operations, a small unit has been established in the
Shuikou Power Plant to be responsible for environmental and hydrological monitoring
and operation and maintenance of the flood warning system, ensuring the continuation of
these activities.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
64.  In the ICR for the first loan, the importance of rigorous prequalification processes
for contractors and suppliers was highlighted, and this remains as an overall lesson from
the two projects.



19
65.   The two stage loan arrangement achieved its objectives in reducing the early
repayment burden before power plant commissioning and reducing commitment charges.
It was also appropriate in the context of the fast growing Fujian system, in that it allowed
reevaluation of project scope at mid-term. As a result of this, the transmission line to
East China was deleted, the navigation facilities were upgraded by the addition of a
shiplift, a grid control component was added based on the outcome of studies carried out
in the first stage, and the financial and institutional objectives were strengthened.
However, two disadvantages of this approach were: the lack of Bank commitment to the
second phase, creating difficulties in opening letters of credit for equipment, and the
considerable expenditure by both the Borrower and Bank in processing the second loan.
The use of the Adjustable Program Loan, which has now been added to the Bank's
product line, should be considered for similar future operations. This would provide the
same advantages with regard to commitment charges and repayment profile, flexibility,
and processing costs, although it would not address the letter of credit issue.
66.   Shuikou resettlement was carried out successfully. An OED evaluation, Recent
Experience with Involuntary Resettlement - China: Shuikou and Yantan (Report No.
17539), June 2, 1998 concurs with this assessment. A detailed report on Shuikou
resettlement is being finalized. Conclusions are summarized as follows:
67.   The success of the resettlement can be attributed to several factors, some of which
are project specific and others which are more general and offer some opportunity for
replication elsewhere. Among the factors specific to Shuikou are its location close to the
dynamic coastal economy creating opportunities for non land-based resettlement. These
were enhanced by the eventual construction of the highway paralleling the reservoir,
improving access of the resettlement communities to Fuzhou City and the coastal areas.
The topography at Shuikou was also conducive to a "moving back" resettlement plan,
enabling minimal disruption to communities. Among the factors which might be
replicated elsewhere are:
(a)   The enlightened policies of central and provincial governments which
established the principles of restoration of living standard and
development based resettlement, supplemented by the preferential policies
and incentives established by the provincial government in the reservoir
area.
(b)   The institutional framework for resettlement, based on the local
government administrative system. This consisted of a dedicated
provincial resettlement office staffed by professionals, and counterpart
offices at county, township and village levels. These were supported by
functional departments at the various levels. This decentralized approach
provided the necessary oversight and technical support while facilitating
participation, and flexibility in planning and implementation.



20
(c)   The planning process which commenced well ahead of the project,
developing an overall framework for the resettlement process in
consultation with local government down to village level. As well as
infrastructure and housing, this considered income restoration options
based on natural resources available at various sites.
(d)   The open, fair, participatory and flexible approach adopted during
implementation, adjusting plans based on actual resource availability,
current market conditions and wishes of the resettlers.
(e)   The flexibility shown by government agencies in adjusting resettlement
budgets for inflation, more detailed planning and unforeseen
circumstances, and the strong support of FPEPB in obtaining additional
funding.
(f)    The independent evaluation of resettlement, which provided early
feedback on the successes and weaknesses of the resettlement process.
Despite these successes, it is considered that there is room for
improvement in the process which should be taken into account in future projects.
(g)   The disadvantage of the decentralized resettlement planning and
implementation process is its dependence on the quality of leadership and
technical competence at lower levels of government. It appears that the
resettlement office and relevant government departments should play an
even greater role in supervision and technical assistance, particularly in
income restoration activities.
(a)   Resettlement planning should be even further advanced at appraisal stage,
to allow more detailed cost estimates to be carried out. Detailed cost
estimates of measures to reestablish income need to be compared with
compensation costs that finance these measures. Estimates of remaining
land resources need to be more realistic, taking adequate account of
quality of available unused land, losses to infrastructure and to slippages
of land into the reservoir.
(b)   Implementation of resettlement should also be advanced as much as
possible, particularly land development for agricultural activities, to
reduce or even eliminate the time lag between reservoir filling and re-
establishment of income.
(c)    The budget adjustment process was protracted, and did result in delays at
critical stages. Automatic adjustment for inflation would make the process
less reliant on periodic reviews.



21
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENT
Achievement of Objectives
Not
Substantial    Partial    Negligible    Applicable
Macroeconomics policies                                                      X
Sector policies                                   X
Financial objectives                  X
Institutional development             X
Physical objectives                   X
Poverty reduction                                                            X
Gender concerns                                                              X
Other social objectives                                                      X
Environmental objectives              X
Public sector management              X
Private sector development                                                   X
Project Sustainability
Likely                              Unlikely                           Uncertain
x
Bank Performance
Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                      X
Preparation assistance              X
Appraisal                           X
Supervision                         X
Borrower Performance
Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                         X
Implementation                      X
Covenant compliance                 X
Assessment of Outcome
Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory      Highly Unsatisfactory
x



22
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
Year of
Loan Title                          Purpose               Approval           Status
Ln. 2382-CHA           To construct a rockfill dam, a spillway,   02/21/84   Loan was closed on
Lubuge Hydroelectric    an underground powerhouse, to install 4      06/30/92.
Project                generating units of 150 MW each, 3
single circuits of 220 kV transmnission
lines; to provide consultant services and a
training program.
Ln. 2493-CHA           To construct a 500 kV transmission line   02/19/85   Loan was closed on
Second Power Project    from Xuzhou to Shanghai and 5                06/30/92.
associated substations totaling 3,500
MVA in capacity, to install tele-control
and teleconmunications equipment for
load dispatching, and to provide training
for 400 kV transmission lines and
substations.
Ln. 2706-CHA &         To construct a coal-fired thermal power   05/29/86 & First loan closed
Ln. 2955-CHA           project with two units of 600 MW and    06/14/88   06/30/94. Second loan
Beilungang Thermal     two single circuit of 500 kV transmission     closed 06/30/95.
Power Projects I and II   lines, and to carry out a tariff study, a
study on ZPEPB reorganization and
management improvement and a study
for improvement of distribution networks
for the cities of Ningbo and Hangzhou.
Ln. 2707-CHA           To construct a 110 m high concrete  05/29/86   Loan was closed on
Yantan Hydroelectric   gravity dam, a spillway, a powerhouse,        06/30/94.
Project                and a shiplift; to install 4 generating units
of 275 MW each, 2 single circuits of 500
kV transmission lines and 3 associated
substations; and to carry out a training
program.
Ln. 2775-CHA &         To construct a 101 m high concrete  01/06/87   Closed 6/30/93.
Shuikou Hydroelectric    gravity dam, a spillway, a powerhouse
Project                and a navigation lock; to install 7
generating units of 200 MW each; to
carry out a resettlement program in the
reservoir.
Ln. 3515-CHA           To complete the ongoing Shuikou dam    09/01/92   Closed 6/30/98. Current
Second Shuikou         and hydroelectric power plan, upgrade         ICR..
Hydroelectric Project    the control and data acquisition system of
the Fujian grid, carry out an action plan
for tariff reform, and a training program
for planning and financial management.



23
Year of
Loan Title                          Purpose               Approval           Status
Ln. 3387-CHA &         To construct a 240 m high arch dam with  07/02/91  Implementation under
Ln. 3933-CHA           an underground powerhouse, to install 6    &  way. First loan closed
Ertan Hydroelectric    550-MW generating units and associated   08/22/95  12/31/96. Closing date
Projects I & II        equipment; to carry out an environmental      second loan 12/31/2001
management program, studies of power
pricing and reservoir operation, and a
training program.
Cr. 2305-CHA &         To construct a 56 m high gravity dam  10/31/91  Closed 12/31/98. ICR
Ln. 3412-CHA           and an underground powerhouse with 4 x        in preparation
Daguangba Multipurpose  60 MW generating units; to erect a 36 km
Project                long double-circuit 220 kV transmission
line and to build canals to irrigate 12,700
ha of land.
Ln. 3433-CHA           To install 2 300-MW generating units  01/14/92  Closed 12/31/97.
Yanshi Thermal Power   and 5 220-kV transmission lines and
Project                associated substations; to carry out a
tariff study, a tariff action plan, and a
taaining program for upgrading the
technical, financial and management
skills for HPEPB staff
Ln. 3462-CHA           To install 2 additional 600 MW       04/12/92  Implementation under
Zouxian Thermal Power  generating units; to construct 500 kV and     way. Closing date
Project                220 kV transmission lines and                 06/30/99.
substations; and to carry out an air
quality control study, a power tariff
study, an action plan for tariff
adjustment, and a training program for
the technical financial, and management
staff of SPEPB.
Ln. 3606-CHA           To construct a pumped-storage hydro-  05/18/93  Inplementation under
Tianhuangping          electric power plant with six 300 MW          way. Closing date
Hydroelectric Project    reversible pump-turbine units, together      12/31/2001.
with upper and lower reservoirs, a water
conveyance system, an underground
powerhouse; to erect 250 km long 500
kV transmission lines; to carry out
studies of optimal power plant operation
and its output pricing; and to strengthen
the beneficiary's organization through
technical assistance and training.



24
Year of
Loan Title                           Purpose               Approval           Status
Ln. 3718-CHA           To construct a coal-fired thermal power    03/22/94  Implementation under
Yangzhou Thermal       plant with two 600 MW generating units;        way. Closing date
Power Project         to erect two 500 kV transmission lines          12/31/2000.
(30 km long); to extend technical
assistance for the development and
implementation of improved accounting
and financial management information
systems; and undertake management
development and staff training.
Ln. 3848-CHA           To construct a new 500 kV transmission    02/28/95  Implementation
Sichuan Transmission   network consisting of 2,260 km of               commenced. Closing
Project                transmission lines and 5,250 MVA of             date 12/31/2001.
substations; provide technical assistance
for implementation of sector reform plan,
organizational improvements and
financial management systems.
Ln. 3846-CHA           To construct Beilungang Phase II power   02/28/95  Implementation
Zhejiang Power         plant consisting of three 600 MW coal-          commenced. Closing
Development Project    fired units; to construct 400 circuit-km of     date 12/31/2002.
500 kV transmission lines, 2,250 MVA
of 500 kV substations and reinforce
distribution networks in Hangzhou and
Ningbo; to extend technical assistance to
assist the power company in
commercialization and corporatization,
establish computerized financial
management information system,
improve transmission and distribution
planning and upgrade environmental
monitoring.
Ln. 3980-CHA           To construct two 600 MW coal-fired   2/27/96    Canceled 12/12/97
Henan (Qinbei) Thermal  thermal power units; to erect two 165 km       without disbursement.
Power Project          500 kV transmission lines; to assist
HPEPB in engineering, procurement and
construction supervision; and to extend
technical assistance to support the
implementation of the power sector
reform action plan.
Ln. 41720-CHA          To construct the first two coal-fired 600    05/27/97  Implementation
Tuoketuo Thermal       MW units in Inner Mongolia                      underway. Closing
Power Project          Autonomous Region; to implement a               date 7/31/2004.
desertification control and dryland
management program: to assist TEPGC
with the introduction; of modem
accounting and financial management



25
systems, environmental management,
operation and maintenance of the power
plant and involvement of private
investors in existing and new power
projects in Inner Mongolia.
To construct two 220 kV indoor
substations in Beijing: to add a 250 MVA
transformer to Wangfujing substation in
Beijing; and to assist NCPGC to
implement accounting and financial
management systems.
Ln. 41970-CHA          To construct two 900-1000 MW coal-  06/24/97  Implementation
Waigaoqiao Thermal     fired supercritical units; to install FGD      underway. Closing
power Project         facilities at Shidongkou Power Plant to         datel/31/2006.
offset SO2 emissions from the project; to
construct two 500 kV transmission lines;
to assist SMEPC to implement modem
accounting and financial management
systems, promote efficient management
and power sector reforms including
financial and corporate restructuring of
the generation company.



26
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle           Date planned       Date actual/latest estimate
Preappraisal                                                 04/90
Appraisal                            02/86                   07/91
Negotiations                         11/86                   07/92
Board presentation                                         09/01/92
Signing                                                    10/20/92
Effectiveness                                              01/13/93
Project Completion                 12/31/96                06/30/98
Loan closing                       12/31/91                06/30/98
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
X___ _  FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate       32.0      85.3     98.6     99.8   100.0    100.0
Actual                   27.6     32.8      49.1     61.3    84.8    85.63
Actual as % of
estimate
Date of final
disbursement:
Nov 4, 1998.
Note: Disbursement schedule was slower than anticipated at appraisal mainly because of
the Borrower's decision to use the Bank loan for the direct foreign exchange costs
only rather than 70 percent of total costs as provided in the Loan Agreement. This
resulted in a delayed commencement of disbursements (first loan took longer to be
exhausted) and then a slower rate of disbursements. Savings of some $40 million
were realized. Disbursements in the last one and a half years are related to the new
transmission component approved in August -1996 utilizing these savings.



27
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(Refer to Equipment Delivery Table in Text)



28
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Shuikou Dam and Power Plant
Index                        Unit        Actual         Target Value         Target Value
Completion      Dual Standard     First Class Standard'
to 12/31/97
1. Continuous Safe           Days         1228      Three 100 day periods  Three 100 day periods
Operation'
2. Human accidents at year    No            0                0                     0
end
3. Dam Safety Evaluation                 Regular        Regular Dam           Regular Dam
Dam2
4. Annual Energy Output      GWh          6009             4,950                 4,950
5. StationServicesas%of       %           0.14              0.15                 0.15
generation
6. Average Availability   Hours/year      8047             7,888                 7963
7. PerfectOperationof      %ofyear         100              100                   100
Main Equipment
8. Perfect Operation of       %           97.86              95                   95
Flood Forecasting System
9. Accuracy of Forecast of    %         98.6 (peak)          92                   92
Largest Flood
97.7 (vol.)
10. Average accuracy of       %        94.9 (peak)           85                   85
Flood Forecast
95.2 (vol)
11. Labor Productivity        %          178.04             110                   110
'In addition to meeting targets listed, first class performance standard requires following:
(a) Computerized MIS system for.
(b) Computerized SCADA and EMS for plant.
(c) Automatic hydrological forecasting system in place.
(d) No leakage from equipment
(e)  Plant labor force less than 0.15 persons/MW.
2 Routine safety evaluation every year. Reviewed by panel every five years. Compliance with all criteria
required.



29
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as defined at
Study        appraisal/redefined              Status                 Impact of study
Hydro          To identify hydro     Completed 1994                   Potential energy storage
Inventory     schemes to provide                                      scheme identified.
Study          seasonal energy storage.
Gas Turbine    Examnine the feasibility   Completed 1994              Gas turbines found to be
Study          of oil fired gas turbines                              promising. 100 MW
to provide reserve                                     installed.
capacity and back-up to
seasonal hydropower.
Generation     Not contemplated at   Comnpleted 1996                  Least cost generation
Planning Study  appraisal. Objective                                  plan to 2010 developed
was to transfer and                                    by planning department.
modify planning                                        Includes balanced mix
software installed under                               of nuclear, 600 and 300
first project to planning                              MW coal, hydro and gas
department and assist                                 turbines.
them to develop long-
term generation
planning capabilities,
and a least cost plan
incorporating results of
two above studies.
Tariff Study   To transfer to FPEPB  Initial report submitted by BERI  Technology transfer
modem methods of      May 1994. Reviewed by EDF and    objective achieved.
power tariff design and   commented on in conjunction with    FPEPB and Provincial
to look into practical    training program June 1995.  Pricing now have good
problems raised by    November 1996 further meetings   knowledge of principles
transition from current   with FPEPB of which final revisions  of tariff structure. Some
pricing arrangements.   to Study Report and Reform Plan  improvements
agreed.                         implemented. More
contemplated.
Planning and    Transfer technology in   Contract signed June 1994. Interim   FPEPB trained in use of
Commercial    demand forecasting and   and final reports submitted    EDF software packages.
Management    demand analysis.       December 1994 and September      Software transferred to
Study          Modernize operations,   1995.                          FPEPB and data for
hardware and software                                  Fujian grid input.
of Business                                            Software in use.
Management Dept. in
relation to statistics,
tariff management etc.



30
Training       Not defined at appraisal.  Overseas study tours and training
Programs       Several topics identified  programs covering 168 persons
and recorded in mninutes  completed. Topics covered
of negotiations.       construction management, contract
management, financial and
commercial management, project
cost control, tariff and power
planning studies, management
delegation of operation for hydraulic
power station, management
delegation of equipment automation
for hydraulic power station, dam
safety management for hydraulic
power station, reservoir operation
and its management, delegation for
operation and managemnent of large
scale ship lock and shiplift, operation
and management of electric power
system, environment management
delegation.



31
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate ($ M)         Actual/latest ($ M)
Item                              Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign    Total
Preparatory worksl                38.2       0.0      38.2      163.7      1.5    165.2
Resettlement                     197.2      10.0    207.2       204.1      7.8    211.9
Civil works                       73.4    144.3    217.7        112.3    118.4    230.7
Metal works                       10.0       8.2      18.2       16.3      7.2      23.5
Electrical and mechanical equip.  39.4      87.2    126.6        93.6    37.1      130.8
Transshipment of Cargo2            0.0       0.0       0.0       15A       0.0      15.4
Engineering and construction      24.7       8.9      33.6       17.1      1.2      18.3
supervision
Administration                    11.6       0.0      11.6       23.2      6.3      29.5
Technical Assistance and training3  1.0      3.3       4.3       10.9      2.3      13.2
Total Cost incl. Contingencies  443.3    214.2    657.5      656.8   181.8    838.6
Shuikou Dam and Power Plant
Shiplift                          13.3      19.1      32.4       69.4      5.9      75.3
Grid Automation4                   0.0       5.8       5.8        6.0      6.8      12.8
New 500 kV ComponentS             43.5      40.0      83.5       61.9    31.3       93.2
Total Project Cost             500.1    279.1    779.2       794.2   225.8    1020.0
Interest during construction6     83.2    148.8    232.0        191.6    71.8    263.3
Total Financing Required       583.3    427.9    1011.2      985.8   297.6    1283.3
Appraisal estirate did not include several items that were previously not charged to the project under old
accounting system. These are now included. Neither appraisal estimate nor actual includes railway
relocation costs of $125.3 million, since this component was considered separately at time of appraisal of
first project and found to be econoomically justified in its own right.
2 Mainly required because of delay in completion of shiplock due to floods in construction phase.
3 Operator training not included in appraisal estimates.
4 Local costs for grid automation not included in SAR.
5 Appraisal estimates are those included in MOP for new component.
6 IDC estimates for demand power plant from SAR for first project, since SAR for second project only
included IDC during implementation of project, covered by second loan. Figures for IDC vary from first
ICR because of different cut-off dates.



32
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimate ($ M)         Actual/latest ($ M)
Item                            Local    Foreign    Total       Local   Foreign    Total
IBRD'                                     240.0    240.0                 225.6    225.6
Local bank                      534.1     148.8    682.9        923.9     72.0    995.9
Provincial Power Construction    49.2                            61.9      0.0      61.9
Fund
Foreign Exchange loans to be               40.0    260.0          0.0      0.0       0.0
arranged
Total                        583.3     427.9    1011.2       985.8    297.6   1283.4
IIncludes $140.0 million from Loan 2775-CHA.



TABLE 9: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF POWER PLANT
YEAR                                                                 1985     1986      1987     1988      1989      1990     1991      1992      1993     1994      1995
SHUIKOU
POWER ABSORPTION BY GRID (MW)                                                                                                                      200      600       800
ENERGY ABSORPTION BY GRID (GWh)                                         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0       564     2960      4770
ECONOMIC CAPITAL COST (million Y, 1997 CONSTANT)/a                  36.97    128.02    313.85    490.00    489.02    624.41    971.55    633.02    716.42    950.26    399.14
OPERATING COST (million Y)                                                                                                                 0     11.43     34.28     45.71
TOTAL COST (million Y)              $3,432.67 (cost-NPV)            36.97    128.02    313.85    490.00   489.02    624.41    971.55    633.02    727.85    984.54    444.85
AIC OF Shuikou(Yuan/kWH)           $16,127.21 (energy-NPV)           0.21
COAL ALTERNATIVE
EQUIVALENT COAL CAPACITY (MW)                                                                                                                   235.72    707.15    942.87
EQUIVALENT COAL ENERGY (GWh)                                            0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0    597.84    3137.6   5056.2
INSTALLATION SCHEDULE (MW)                                                                                                                         300      600       300
CUMULATIVE CAPACITY (MW)                                                                                                                           300      900      1200
COALUNIT 1                                                                                                192.81    578.43    771.24    385.62
COAL UNIT 2                                                                                                        192.81    578.43    771.24    385.62
COAL UNIT 3                                                                                                        192.81    578.43    771.24    385.62
COAL UNIT 4                                                                                                                  192.81    578.43    771.24    385.62
COAL UNIT5                                                                                                                             192.81    578.43    771.24    385.62
COAL UNIT 6                                                                                                                           96.405   289.215    385.62    192.81     w
CAPITAL COST (mnillion Y)                                                                                 192.81    964.05   2120.91  2795.745  2410.125   1542.48    578.43
FUEL COST (million Y)                                                                                                                            86.81    455.58    734.16
OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE (million Y)                                                                                                            57.84    173.53    231.37
TOTAL COST (million Y)              $8,421.37 (cost-NPV)             0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    192.81    964.05   2120.91   2795.75   2554.77   2171.59   1543.96
AIC OF COAL ALT. (Y/KWH)           $17,094.84 (energy-NPV)           0.49
COSTDIFFERENCE(COAL-HYDRO)                                       -36.97394 -128.0231 -313.8501 490.0011 -296.2061 339.63713 1149.3589   2162.72 1826.9232 1187.0446 1099.1138
EQUALIZING DISCOUNT RATE                                           47.09%
NPV OF SHUIKOU PROJECT COSTS                                      3432.67
NPV OF THERMAL ALTERNATIVE                                        8421.37
NPV OF THERMALINPV OF HYDRO                                          2.45
IRR CALCULATIONS
BENEFIT (FPEPB 1997 AVERAGE PURCHASE PRICE)                             0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0  221.8776  1164.464  1876.518
BENEFIT - COST                                                      -36.97   -128.02   -313.85   -490.00   -489.02   -624.41   -971.55   -633.02   -505.97    179.92   1431.67
IRR BASED ON FPEPB AVERAGE PURCHASE PRICE                          19.62%
BENEFIT (SHUIKOU SELLING PRICE TO THE GRID)                             0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0  236.4288  1240.832  1999.584
BENEFIT - COST                                                      -36.97   -128.02   -313.85   -490.00   489.02   -624.41   -971.55   -633.02   491.42    256.29   1554.74
IRR BASED ON SHUlKOU SELLING PRICE TO GRID                         20.52%
BENEFIT (SONGYU SELLING PRICE TO GRID)                                  0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0  334.2264  1754.096  2826.702
BENEFIT - COST                                                     -36.97   -128.02   -313.85   -490.00   489.02   -624.41   -971.55   -633.02   -393.62    769.55   2381.85
IRR BASED ON SONGYU SELLING PRICE TO GRID)                         25.79%



YEAR                                                                    1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005      2006
SHUIKOU
POWER ABSORPTION BY GRID (MW)                                           1400      1400      1400      1400      1400      1400      1400      1400      1400      1400      1400
ENERGY ABSORPTION BY GRID (GWh)                                         4498      6070      4950      4950      4950      4950      4950      4950      4950      4950      4950
ECONOMIC CAPITAL COST (mIllion Y, 1997 CONSTANT)/a                    533.35    216.02    110.97      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
OPERATING COST (million Y)                                             80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00      80.00     80.00     80.00
TOTAL COST (million Y)               $3,432.67 (cost-NPV)             613.34    296.02    190.97     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00      80.00     80.00     80.00
AIC OF Shuikou(Yuan/kWH)            $16,127.21 (energy-NPV)
COAL ALTERNATIVE
EQUIVALENT COAL CAPACITY (MW)                                         1650.02   1650.02
EQUIVALENT COAL ENERGY (GWh)                                         4767.88    6434.2      5247      5247      5247      5247      5247      5247      5247      5247      5247
INSTALLATION SCHEDULE (MW)                                               450
CUMULATIVE CAPACITY (MW)                                                1650      1650      1650      1650      1650      1650      1650      1650      1650      1650      1650
COAL UNIT I
COAL UNIT 2
COAL UNIT 3
COAL UNIT 4
COAL UNIT 5
COAL UNIT 6
CAPITAL COST (million Y)                                                   0         0         0
FUEL COST (million Y)                                                 692.30    934.25    761.86    761.86    761.86    761.86    761.86    761.86    761.86    761.86    761.86
OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE(millionY)                                   318.14    318.14    318.14    318.14    318.14    318.14    318.14    318.14    318.14    318.14    318.14
TOTAL COST (million Y)               $8,421.37 (cost-NPV)            1010.43   1252.38   1080.00   1080.00   1080.00   1080.00   1080.00   1080.00   1080.00   1080.00   1080.00
AIC OF COAL ALT. (Y/KWH)            $17,094.84 (energy-NPV)
COST DIFFERENCE (COAL - HYDRO)                                     397.09029 956.36353 889.03054 1000.0049 1000.0049 1000.0049 1000.0049 1000.0049 1000.0049 1000.0049 1000.0049
EQUALIZING DISCOUNT RATE
NPV OF SHUIKOU PROJECT COSTS
NPV OF THERMAL ALTERNATIVE
NPV OF THERMAL/NPV OF HYDRO
IRR CALCULATIONS
BENEFIT(FPEPB 1997AVERAGEPURCHASEPRICE)                            1769.5132  2387.938   1947.33   1947.33   1947.33   1947.33   1947.33   1947.33   1947.33   1947.33   1947.33
BENEFIT- COST                                                        1156.17   2091.92   1756.36   1867.33   1867.33   1867.33   1867.33   1867.33   1867.33   1867.33   1867.33
IRR BASED ON FPEPB AVERAGE PURCHASE PRICE
BENEFIT (SHUIKOU SELLING PRICE TO THE GRID)                        1885.5616  2544.544   2075.04   2075.04   2075.04   2075.04   2075.04   2075.04   2075.04   2075.04   2075.04
BENEFIT - COST                                                       1272.22   2248.53   1884.07   1995.04   1995.04   1995.04   1995.04   1995.04   1995.04   1995.04   1995.04
IRR BASED ON SHUIKOU SELLING PRICE TO GRID
BENEFIT (SONGYU SELLING PRICE TO GRID)                             2665.5149  3597.082   2933.37   2933.37   2933.37   2933.37   2933.37   2933.37   2933.37   2933.37   2933.37
BENEFIT - COST                                                       2052.17   3301.06   2742.40   2853.37   2853.37   2853.37   2853.37   2853.37   2853.37   2853.37   2853.37
IRR BASED ON SONGYU SELLING PRICE TO GRID)



ASUMPTIONS
COAL PLANT (ECONOMIC COSTS)                                                                                   SHUIKOU
CAPACITY COST (Y/KWH GEN)                                                 6427                                OPERATING AND MAIN. HYDRO (Y/KW)              57.14
FUEL CONSUMPTION (G/KWH GEN)                                               330                                DESIGN LIFE HYDRO (YEARS)                        50
COAL COST (Y/TON STD)/b                                                    440                                AUXILARY POWER USE (%)                          0.1
FUEL COST PER KWH GEN                                                   0.1452                                FORCED OUTAGE (%)                               0.5
DISBURSEMENT RATE COAL PLANTS                                              0.1        0.3       0.4       0.2 ANNUAL OVERHAUL (DAYS)                          41
192.81
ECONOMIC LIFE (YEARS)                                                       30                                SELLING PRICES OF GENERATING PLANT TO GRID
AUXILARY POWER USE%                                                          6                                (INCLUDING VAT) PLUS SURCHARGES OF YO.0826) Y
FORCED OUTAGE%                                                              10                                FPEPB 1997 AVERAGE                             0.39
ANNUAL OVERHAUL (DAYS)                                                      42                                SHUIKOU                                        0.42
SONGYU                                         0.59
a/ Costs for Shuikou do not include railway relocation costs which appraised spearately in original appraisal. Economic costs calculated annually by
(i) multiplying the local cost with standard conversion factor, (ii) converting at the official exchange rate to US$;
(iii) adding to foreign cost; (iv) converting to 1997 constant prices by using MUV index; and (v) reconverting to Yuan using the 1997 exchange rate.
b/ Coal price based on FOB Qinhuangdao (US$35.4/ton, 5500 kcal/kg). Shadow freightage of Y48.0/ton (from Qinhuangdao to Fujian) was added to price, and two percent
transportation losses were assumed. Calculated price was therefore Y349/ton which is Y444/ton of standard coal.



36
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-               Original     Revised
Agree-                nant    Present  fulfillment   fulfillment
ment      Section    Class    status       date         date            Description of covenant          Comments
Loan      3.01 (b)      3         C                                Relend the proceeds of the loan to
FPEBP, on temis and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.04          7         C                                In collaboration with carry out FPEPB
resettlement program, undertake an
independent evaluation of resettlement
(IER), monitor the IER reports, take
action to accelerate the reestablishment
of income and welfare in identified
problem areas.
3.05          6         C                                In collaboration with FPEPB, carry out
an environmental action plan,
acceptable to the Bank.
Project   4.01          1         C                                Have project records and accounts for
each fiscal year audited. Fumish to the
Bank, not later than six months after the
end of the fiscal year, the audited report.
Schedule      10        C                                Prepare, prior to completion of the dam,
2, Para 1                                                a program of annual maintenance of the
project works, satisfactory to the Bank,
undertake periodic inspections of the
dam and associated works using
independent experts whose
qualifications and experience are
acceptable to the Bank, and to
implement their recommendations.
Schedule      12       CD                                FPEPB shall implement aplan for
2, Para 2                                                power tariff structure improvements
acceptable to the Bank, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, including the
completion of the first phase by
December 31, 1993.
Schedule      10        C                                FPEPB shall cany out a transmission
2, Para 3                                                expansion program which includes
integration of facilities under Part A of
the Project and the Fujian Province Grid
in accordance with a schedule
satisfactory to the Bank.
Schedule      10        C                                FPEPB shall carry out hydro-inventory
3, Para 4                                                reevaluation with timing, specialist
assistance and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
Schedule      7         C                                In collaboration with FPEPB carry out
3, Para 5                                                resettlement program, undertake an
independent evaluation of resettlement
(IER), monitor the IER reports, take
action to accelerate the reestablishment
of income and welfare in identified
problem areas.
Schedule      6         C                                FPEPB shall, in collaboration with the
3, Para 6                                                Borrower, undertake an environmental
action plan. acceptable to the Bank, in a



37
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4.01(b)       2         C                                Have records, accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year audited.
Fumish audited financial statements to
the Bank not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year,
4.01(c)       I         C                                Maintain and have audited, accounts for
SOEs. Submit audit report together with
audited financial statements of FPEPB.
4.02          2         C                                Not incur additional debt unless a
reasonable forecast shows intemal cash
generation would provide a debt service
coverage ratio of no less than 1.3 times
before 1995, and 1.5 times thereafter.
4.03          2         C                                Maintain a debt/equity ratio of no more
than 75/25 in 1992-96 and 70/30
thereafter.
4.04          2         C                                Take all measures, including but not
limited to tariff adjustments, to ensure
that its intemal cash generation is
sufficient to maintain a self-financing
ratio of no less than 22 percent in
1992/93, 25 percent in 1994/95, and 30
percent thereafter.



38
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
The project was carried out in full compliance with the following Operational Directives:
Statement Number and Title       Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. OMS 3.80 - Dam Safety                Fully Complied.
2. OD 4.OOB - Environmental Policy for Dam   Fully Complied.
and Reservoir Projects
3. OD 4.01 - Environmental Assessment   Fully Complied
4. OD 4.02 - Environmental Action Plans  Fully Complied
5. OD 4.30 - Involuntary Resettlement   Fully Complied



39
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned                    Revised                     Actual
Stage of project cycle           Weeks        $'000         Weeks        $'000         Weeks         $'000
Preparation to appraisal                                                               31.7          75.6
Appraisal                                                                              41.3          108.9
Negotiations through                                                                    8.8          23.9
Board approval
Supervision                                                                            38.4          94.5
Completion                                                                             3.5            12.3
Total                                                                               123.7         315.2
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Specialized     Imple-      Devel-
Stage of project cycle         Month/   No. Of    Days         staff skills  mentation     opment       Type of
year     persons   in field   represented /a  status     objectives    problems
Through appraisal               04/90       2         3          EC,EC
10/90       3                E,EC,FA,EC,R
07/91       4         9       E,EC,FA,R
10/91       2         6          E,EC
Appraisal through Board
approval
Board approval through          10/92       2         5           E,R            1            I
effectiveness
Supervision        1            05/93       2         7           E,R            S            S
2            02/94       3         7       E,R,R,EC,EC        S            S        (Missions
in 02/94
and 06/94.
F590
updated
08/94)
3            10/94        1        5            E             HS           S
4            04/95       3         4          E,FA,R          HS           S
5            11/95       3         3          E,R,R                                 (F590 not
prepared)
6            04/96       4         5          E,FA,R          HS          HS
7            03/97       2         5           E,R            HS          HS
Completion                      10/97       3         10         E,R,R          HS           HS
07/98       2         3           E,R
/a E: Hydroelectric Engineer, Ec: Economnist, FA: Financial Analyst, R: Resettlement Specialist,



Projeeted and Actual Finmndal Statementa of FPEPB (1991-1997)
Table 1: INCOME STATEMENT
(Y rmifilion)
1991             1992               1993              1994             1995               1996               1991               1998              1999            2000
Year Ended December31      Projected Actual  Projected Actual   Projected Actual   Projected Actual Projected Actual   Projected Actual  Projected  Actual   Projected Actual   Projected Actual Projected Actual
Operas Revenues
Sales Increase (%)            14.5   21.1      13.2   11.1       13.3   17.9        13.3   18.9      13.4   15.1         9.8   10.7        9.9      3.5       10.0               9.9             10.1
Energy Sales (GWh)           9,272  9,803    10,499  10,892     11,899  12,840     13,485  15,274   15,294  17,578     16,794  19,461    18,465  20,147     20,312             22,321          24,576
AveragePrice(fenrWh)          16.5   17.2      17.7   17.2       21.0   21.8        22.4    26.1    24A1   30.3         25.3   34.1       25.8    38.4        25.9              26.7            29.25
Total Operatine Revenues  1,530  1.6S6    1.861   1.873     2A9S   2,799       3.015   3.987    3.733   5.326     4.247   6 636      4.755   7.729      5 265               966      Q     7.1SS      Q
Operabne Costs
Fuel                          190    262        273    260        294    377         335    378       394    334        524    387         696     222        875                927            1,152
Purebased Power               770    945        918    931        947   1,556        976   1,688    1,006   2,042      1,038   2,899     1,070   3,335       1,192             1,904            2,278
Operation & Maintenance       129     63        143     85        196    155         287    207       364    255        407    355         465     404        506                531             591
Adniinistration                47      12        57     39         68      86         80    166        96               111                128                147                170             197
Sales Tax/a                   155    150        193    197        316    157         416    616       557    831        656   1,039        753   1,214        831                829            1,002
Depreciation                   93     83        102    143        108    175         168    332       282    SI        370    584         407     737        464                492             504
Overhaul                         0     63         0      73          0    104          0    180         0    266                 254                284
Other Expenses                  0      13         0     23          0       0          0       0        0    235                279                45S
LessFuzhouThennal Revenue       (11)     0       (14)     0        (15)      0        (16)      0      (16)      0        (17)              (18)                (21)              (34)             (42)               o
Total Operatin_ Cost  1.373  1.591   1,672  1751       1,914   2.610      2.246   3.567    2.683   4481       3,0S9   5.797     3.501   6.654      3-994      0       4.819     Q     5.682      Q
Qo.p1 tijpiomi9      157     95        1S9    l22        MI    189          769    420    1.050    845        1.158    839      1.254    1075       1.271     0       1,147     0     1.506      0
InterestChargedtoOperation      39     33         42     31        101       7        211     182      461    528        466    518         547     653        516                472             542
Otherlncome(Losses)             10      12        10      (4)       10      27         10      17       11      15         11     42         12      (37)       12                 13              13
NetlncomeBeforelncomeTax    128        74       157      87       490    209         568    255       600    332         703    363        719      385       767       0        688      0      977       0
IncomeTax                       55     36         64     42        229      17        246      83      182    109         194    113        175      122        tS8               125              201
Net Income            13    38         93      45        261    192         322    172       41S    223        509    250         544     263        609      0        563      0       776      0
Distribution of Net Income
Rernittance to Govemnent       22      0         28      0         77       0         95       0       89       0        86                 61                 37                 30              57
TmasfeffedtoGovemmentFun       16      0         25      0         59       0        104       0      256       0       340                388                463                432             582
EsnployeBenetfitsSpecialFund    13               17                 47                58               76                 93                98                 110               101              140
Retained Earnings              23      0         24      0         79       0         65       0        0       0
Operation Ratio('/.)             90     94        90      93         77      93         74     89        72     84         73      87         74      86         76                 81              79
Rate Base                      2132   2229      2255   2406        3097   2866       5435   5315      8096   8683        9568  10905      10523   12368       11300             11386           11,776
Rate of Retumn on
AverageNetFiredAssetsinSe    7.36   4.27        8.40    5.09     18.77    6.60      14.15    7.89    12.97    9.73      12.10    7.70     11.91    8.69
/a Actual Values from 1994 onwards represent value added tax



Projected and Actual Financial Statements of FPEPB (1991-1997)
Table 2: BALANCE SHEET
(Y miillion)
1991            1992              1993              1994             1995              1996              1997              1998              1999           2000
As of December 31          Projected Actual  Pmjected Actual   Projected Actual   Projected Actual Projected Actual   Projected Actual   Projected Actual   Projected Actual   Projected Actual Projected Actual
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                        217   210        304    697       400    929         509   1,456     560   1,952       626   3,242       705   2,290        800              911             1012
Inventories                  80    68         84    410         88    365         93    472       98    576        102      97       108     121        113               119             125
Accounts Receivable          75   108         92    122        123    337        149    528      184    277        210    277        235   2,209        260              294              355
Other Current Assets          0      0         0      0          0      9          0     17        0    550          0   1,978                42
TotalCurrentAssets   372   386       480   1,229       611   1.640       751  2.473      842   3.355       938   5.594      1.048   4.662      1.173     0      1.324     2    1,492       0
Long-temmInvestment             0      0         0      0          0    127          0    157        0    243                362               454
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service           2,907  3,110    3,094  3,240      4,799   4,630     8,047  9,103   10,571  12,369    11,641  14,790    13,259  16,783     14,066            14,388           15842
Less: Accumulated Depreciatio  (694)  (706)    (796)  (831)   (904) (1,306)    (1,072) (1,797)  (1,353) (2,309)   (1,723) (3,041)   (2,131)  (3,796)   (2,595)         (3,087)          -3591
NetPlantin Service  2,213  2,404   2,298  2,409      3,895   3,324     6,975  7,306    9,217  10,060      9,918  11,749    11,128  12,987     11,471     0     11,301     0   12,251       0
Construction WIP           3,268  3,490    4,288  4,126      4,314   5,927     2,620  3,323    1,400   2,503      1,479   2,191      842   2,231      1,173             2,413           2445
TotalFixedAssets   5.481  5,894    6,586  6,535      8,209  9,251      9595  10.629   10,.617  1256      11397  13.940    11.970  15.218      12,44      0     13.714     0   14696        0
Special Fund Assets           209   204        233    354        224      0        249      0      295       0       305               344                408              472              519
DefeiredandIntangibleAssets     0      0         0      0          0     94          0     30        0    473                370                131
Total Assets       6.062  6A84     7.299  8.118      9.044  11.112    10.595  13.289   11754  16634      12.640  20Q266    13.362  20.465    14.225      2     15.510     0   16.707       0
LIABILITIES & EOUITf
Ctiwent Liabilities
Accounts Payable            136   131        167    282        173     28        179    260      186    334        191    695        197     645        205              231              257
DuetoGovernment              25    19         26     58        27      32         28     26       29      43        30    146         32     112         33               34               36
Short-tenn Loan               0      9         0      0          0      0          0      3        0       3                65               108
Other Current Liabilities     0      0         0      0          0    807          0    660        0    888              1,624              1,637
Total Current Liabilities    161   159  193    340        200    867        207    949      215  1L268        221   2.530       229   2.502        238      0        265     0       293      2
Construction Appropriate       75   272         75    316         75      0         75      0       75       0        75                75                 75                75              75
Wordng Capital Funds           47    34         47     53         47      0         47      0       47       0        47                47                 47                47              47
Long-term Debt               4,011  4,214    4,921   5,319     6,294  7,287      7,407  8,705    7,998  10,063      8,235  10,681     8,251  10,022      8,348            8,813            8994
GovemmentFunds               1,325  1,318     1,520  1,528     1,770      0      2,044      0    2,474       0      3,017             3,574             4,150             4,756            5557
Special Funds                 419   487        495    562        533      0        624      0      752       0       853               993               1,173            1,361            1549
Intemational Bonowing          23               48               127               192              192              192                192               192               192             192
Capital                         0      0         0      0          0   1,796         0  3,000        0   3,399             3,473,             3,655
Capital Surplus                 0      0         0      0          0   1,023         0    385        0   1,430             2,687              3,078
Retained Earnings               0      0         0      0          0    141          0    250        0    474                895              1,208
TotalLiabilities&Equitv  6.061  6,484   7.299  8,118      9.046 11_114       L9k  1328    1175   16.64       12.640  20.266    13.361  20465      14223      0      15,509     0   16707       0
Debt as % ofDebt and Equity   68.3  67.4      69.7   69.7       72.2   73.4       72.6   72.6    70.5   68.1         67.3   65.2       63.8    61.2       60.5             58.6            55.4
Current Ratio                  2.3   2.4        2.5    3.6       3.1    1.9        3.6    2.6       3.9    2.6        4.2    2.2        4.6     1.9        4.9              5.0             5.1



Projected and Actual Finandal StatementB of FPEPB (1991-1997)
Table 3: FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(Y miillion)
1991             1992              1993               1994             1995              1996               1997              1998              1999            2000
Year Ended Decemnber31     Projected Actual  Projected  Actual    Projected Actual Projected Actual   Projected Actual   Projected Actual   Projected Actual   Projected Actual Projected Actual
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Genration
NetIncomePlusInterestExpe    113    74        136    136        364    196         532    348       882    751        981    881       1,094     916      1,126             1,035            1322
Depreciation & Amorfization   93     83       102    143        108    180         168    407       282    604        370    721         407   1,034        464               492              504
Maintenance                    3     63        13      73         9       0         19       0       29       0        36                37                  44                46               47
DistnibutionExpansionSpecia   95     73       120    100         92    269         105    284       119    303         99    300         110     450        122               133              149
OtherResources               175   247        226    302        244       0        268       0      294      57       322    210        332      410        316               403             451
TotalIntaal Source   479    540       597    754        817    645       1.092   1.039    16      1.715      1.808   L2.       1.980   2.810      2.072      Q      2.109     0    2.473       Q
Borrwinos
Proposed IBRD Loan-Phase I    85    85                163                75                  0                0         0                 0                   0
Proposed IBRD Loan-Pbase 1     0      0       243       0       326      92        151    131        39      17         0    157           0     165
Other Shuikou Project loan   643      0       545       0       463       0        249       0       67       0         0                 0
OtherLoans/b                  45    907       272  1,200        771   1,611        994   1,507    1,014   1,952       925   1,904       750   1,790         872             1,240            1107
Total Borrowings     773   992       1 0QL   1.363     1.560   1.778     1.394   16       1.120  1.969        925   2.061       750   1.955         872      0      1.240     Q      1.107     0
Government Fumds - Grants        0     70         0       7         0       0          0       0        0       0
TotalSourcesofFun  1252  1602        1.657  2.124     2.377  2.423       2.486   2.677    2.726   3.684     2.733   4.173      2.730   4,765      2.944             3.349     0    3.580       2
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Exoenditure
ProposedSbuikouProject       586    610       601    710        622    835         316   1,212      106    711          0    827          0      582
OtherConstruction             45    697       260      56       718   1,157        870    158       971   1,222       848   1,298       722   1,670         802  3,000      1,089             985
Renovations/Distnrbution Expa    67   0        68       0        79       0         97       0      125       0       147                176                224               272             298
81              103                82                89              103                 87                94                106               114              128
Interest Duting Construction  142     0       199       0       220       0        208       0       44       0        77                28                  70               151             122
Total Cauital Exenditures    921  1 307   1.231    766      1.721   1.992      .5W8  1.370    1 349   1 933       1.159   2.12      1.020   2.252       1.202  3.0C0      1.626     Q     1.533      2
Operational Requirements
Changes inWorking Capital      7     78       (10)   173         30    (31)         24    223        33      90        26   (313)         24      48         23                14               41
Changes in Special Funds Asse  0     82         0      63         0       0          0       0        0       0         0                 0                   0                 0                0
LoanRepayrnent(DebtService    140    166      193    228        288    119         493    525       990   1,040      1,154   1,443     1,280   1,885      1,291             1,247            1469
Rennittances to Govemnent     21      0        27      (6)       76       0         94       0       88       0        81                 60                 36                28               55
SpecialFundExpenditures      113    172       129    413        164       0        188      0       216       0       246               269                 298               322             379
IncreaseinLong-tennlnvestm     0      0         0       0         0    112           0      32        0    124                119                 92
Total Onerational Recuirements    281   498     339    871        558    200        799    780    1.327   1254        1.507   1.249     1.633   2.025       1.648     2       1.611     0     1.944      2
Total Applicationsi ofFunds   1202  1.805  1.570  1.637      22279   2.192      2,379   2.150    2.676   3.187     2 666   3374      2.653   4277       2,850  3.000       3.237     2     3.477
In(de)creases in Cash           50  (203_        87    487         98    231         107    527        50    497         67    799          77     488         94 (3.000)       112      0      103 Q
ebt Service Coverage (timesyd   2.7    2.4       2.4    3.3        2.5    5.4        2.0    2.0       1.5    1.6         1.4    1.5        1.4     1.5        1.5               1.5              1.6
3-Year capital expenditure    717.3  973.3   1,291.0 1,355.0    1,510.7 1,376.0    1,550.0 1,765.0  1,362.7 1,809.3    1,176.0 2,103.3   1,127.0  2,459.0    1,282.7         1,453.7         1,579.5
Self-financing Ratio(,/.c     43.4  22.0        30.0   21.8       28.0   40.5       31.0   16.5      20.5   32.3        25.6   46.7       30.8    35.7       33.1              34.3            33.5
/b Actual for Other Loans includes Other Shuikou and Other Loans
/c Due to change in accounting procedures, distribution special fiuds are included in internal cab generation since 1992. Also changes projected self financing.
/d Projections slightly different to SAR because of uge of three year average capital expenditure



43
ANNEX 2
IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
FOR
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
FuJIAN, CHMNA
(LOAN NO.: 3515-CHA)
FUJIAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
JANUARY 1999



44
IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW FOR
SHLUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
FUJIAN, P.R. CHINA
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Foreword
1.    The Shuikou Hydroelectric Project is the largest hydro project in East China with
a total installed capacity of 7 x 200 MW, a dependable output of 260 MW and an average
annual generation of 4,950 GWh. It is a large multipurpose project planned mainly for
power generation, but for navigation as well. It is a key project in the national 7th and
8th Five-Year-Plan, and it is a pilot project for managerial system reform in the field of
large-scale hydroelectric project construction. The project is partially funded with World
Bank loans in two phases.
(a)   Phase 1: Loan amount of US$140 million with an original closing date of
December 31, 1991, an extended closing date of June 30, 1992, and final
closing date of June 30. 1993.
(b)   Phase II: Loan amount of US$100 million with an effective date of
October 20, 1992, and planned closing date of December 31, 1996.
2.   ICB procedure was introduced in the construction of main civil works and
procurement of imported electromechanical equipment. The competitive bidding system
was also adopted for all temporary work and local procurement items.
Review Implementation of Main Works
Organization
3.    FPEPB is the owner and proprietor of the project. Representing the owner, SHPC
implements overall management of project construction and also exercises the functions
of the construction unit and engineer. East China Investigation and Design Institute
(ECIDI) serves as the designer. The contracts for main civil works and for the
installation of electromechanical equipment have been awarded to a construction joint
venture (Chinese/Japanese) and the Fourth Hydroelectric Construction Bureau of China
respectively through competitive bidding procedures. Resettlement in the reservoir area
is implemented by SRO under the Fujian Provincial Government. The Morrisson
Knudsen Engineering Co. (MKE) of the USA was hired to provide consultancy services
for SBPC in the aspects of construction and contract, management and for ECIDI in the
reviewing of bidding documents and design management. In the meantime, a Special
Board of Consultants (SBC) was appointed to review and comment on the major



45
technical issues, project management, environment, and resettlement during the design
and construction of the project at various stages.
Construction Schedule
4.    The construction period for the project from commencement of the project in
March 1987 to commercial operation of the first unit on August 6, 1993 was only about
six years and five months, which was about two months behind the original
implementation schedule in the SAR. However, the milestone dates for various stages of
the project had been realized timely. The main river was closed on September 25, 1989.
During 1990, excavation of the dam and powerhouse foundations were started and
completed, the placement of concrete was entered into peak production and a record of
123,000 m3/month was created. In 1991, the annual concrete placement reached 1.15
million m3 and the transition from Stage II to Stage III was carried out. In 1992, the
project withstood successfully an early flood and overcame all the difficulties caused by
the extraordinary flood (50 years in return) on July 7, 1990, and was kept ongoing to form
a basis for the first unit operation in 1993. The peak labor forces during construction of
the project did not exceed 4,000. Overall construction quality was verified in the first
rank among the under construction of five large hydroelectric projects scaled over 1,000
MW in the national quality evaluation for priority projects organized by Ministry of
Energy (MOE). The requirement of 'high speed, quality and efficiency' was realized in
the project. By the end of 1996, all seven generating units were put into operation, and
by the end of 1998 accumulated electricity generation was 24,453 GWh. All of these
achievements received benefit from taking the advantage of using World Bank loan
actively to introduce the experience and practice of international project management and
to import advanced, foreign technology and equipment, as well as from national reforrn
and opening policy, and joint efforts as team work from all parties involved.
Electric and Mechanic Works
Supply of the Units Equipment
5.    The signature of procurement contracts for the seven units of main equipment and
their accessories was made in August 1988. However, since the payment for equipment
delivery spanned over Phase I loan while the Phase 11 loan was not available at the time,
it created a big trouble and time consuming to issue the LC though every effort was
involved. The LC was not available until the end of 1989, which was delayed for nearly
one year compared to the contract stipulations. The manufacturing schedule and
equipment delivery schedule was affected. Because the manufacturers proceeding
capability was limited and many manufacturing contracts were signed as well as
Shuikou's seven turbines are among the largest Kaplan turbines in operation today with
big size and complex manufacturing technology, the actual delivery intervals for each
unit was longer than four months as established in the contract and the casting defect of
the runners for the later units made the part delivery delayed for one year.



46
E/M Installation
6.    The E/M installation contract was signed in January 1991, and the contractor
mobilized to site in March 1991. As the Statements in the contract document, the
installation duration for each unit was 16 months counted from the installation of stay
ring to completion of 72-hour trial operation with units commissioned at four months
intervals. The installation duration for Unit #1 to #6 are 15, 13.5, 12.5, 11, 12, 10.5
months respectively.
Construction Situation of the Navigation Facilities
7.    The stage 11 excavation for the shiplock and the shiplift bottom slab foundation
started after the closure of the channel on 20 November 1991. The construction of
shiplock was affected by the extraordinary 50-year flood on July 7, 1992 about six
months. The lock should be put into operation by July 1993. However, water filling and
trial operation of shiplock was started in September 1994. Unfortunately, some cracks
occurred in each bottom slab of the lock chambers, lock walls and the watering galleries
during the trial operations. The commissioning and trial operation of lock was
suspended. A meeting presented by an panel consisting 8 local experts invited by the
Ministry of Power was held to review the design and the construction of shiplock in
February 1995. Some comprehensive treatment measures such as cracks grouting,
leakage drainage and strengthening the chamber 1# and 2# walls and bottom slabs by
using prestressed anchorage were proposed. In May 1995, the defect treatment and
strengthening works were started and finished in September 1995. In October, the
independent and combined tests of E/M equipment and hydraulic facilities were finished.
Then watering up the lock and started trial operation again in November and the internal
trail navigational operation was carried out in December. On February 10,1996 public
trial started with traffic twice a day. The Owner decided to purchase the hydraulic and
control facilities made in Rexroth, Germany to replace the existing ones which were
unreliable in quality and unstable in operation, the replacement was executed in
November 1996 so the navigation operation stopped. In February 1997, the navigation
recovered with the replacement completion, the shiplock equipment operated well. By
the end of 1998, 30,819 boats had passed through the lock in 3731 passes, totaling
1,160,600.
8.    The conditions of the lock wall and bottom slabs have been improved by
anchoring consolidation cracks, its hidden troubles have not been solved completely,
however. In order to ensure the shiplock operation safely in a long term, the Owner
decided to have the shiplock further reinforced. In July 1997, a scheme for reinforcing
the shiplock for the second time was reviewed by the Programming & Designing Institute
subordinated to the Ministry of Power. It was decided that the wall of lock chamber 1#
would be heightened to E/L 74m, with a pull rod of steel structure installed to on the top
to pull the walls of two sides. This consolidation scheme will be carried out between
September 1997 and the end of April 1998.



47
Shiplift Construction
Civil Works Contracts
9.    The contract of the civil works of shiplift was awarded to Mingjian Construction
Bureau and the Twelfth Construction Bureau in early December 1994 through the
domestic Competitive bidding, the following milestone should be reached by the
Contractors in accordance with the schedule:
(a)   Completed foundation excavation before April 30, 1995.
(b)   Remove the downstream cofferdam before September 31, 1995,
(c)   Complete concrete placement to the tower below EL 74m before July 31,
1996.
(d)   Complete the construction of the pillars and beams on the operation house
layer and the crane beam before September 30, 1996.
(e)   Complete the construction of the generator layer and control chamber
before October 31, 1996.
10.   According to the precision requirement of the shiplift structure, the contractors
face an unprecedented challenge that he must ensure that the deviation should not be over
12mm on the up-and-down surfaces of two 73m towers. The quality of concrete
placement to the shiplift not only met the requirements of specification, but won acclaim
of the higher authorities and the units of the same trade thanks to importing the new
technology of slide support circles while shifting form works and also the constructor
conscientious construction altitude.
11.   The construction of the shiplift civil works, however, was behind the schedule for
nearly one year for multiple reasons. By the end of August 1997, the shiplift structure
has been basically constructed, except for the pillars and beams frame on two sides of the
operating room which as postponed to finish at the end of September due to the delayed
installation of the upstream working gate. The architecture and decoration of shiplift are
being undertaken at present. The civil works for the shiplift were generally complete by
end of 1997.
12.   The most critical rings for the schedule of the civil work of the shiplift were the
cofferdam removal after the flood season 1996 allowing the chamber entering into the
chamber room and rebuilding it to EL14 in order to place second stage concrete of the
downstream headlock and install the maintenance gate before the flood coming at the end
of March 1997. The schedule became tighter as the chamber transportation delayed a
month due to the rebuilding of the Ming-River Bridge in Fuzhou. Under the Engineer
careful management and the cooperation and hard work of the contractors, the work was
done on the schedule.



48
Contracts on Shiplift Facilities Supply
13.   The local manufacturing contracts for the shiplift have been awarded to a joint
venture (Wuhan shipbuilding Corporation-Mining Machinery Company of CITIC) ON
January 13, 1995. Wuhan Ship Building Corporation, the sponsor of the joint venture, is
responsible for the manufacturing of metal structure, main lifting facilities (except for the
retarding device), electric equipments and computer supervising system and for the test
and adjustment of the equipments.
14.   Heavy Machinery corporation of CITIC, the partner, is responsible for
manufacturing the hoist retarding device of the main lifting equipments, counter weight
device and bridge crane of main operating room.
15.   The shiplift of the Shuikou Project is the biggest vertical one in China at present,
there are no experiences to learn from outside for its design and manufacturing. The
technical specification and manufacturing requirements for each facility were listed as the
most difficult ones of the same trade. Some technology are the first used in
manufacturing. Such as the transportation of the chamber, but (hermetically)-sealed
device in big size, big square stainless steel plates, machine work of up-and-down
streams, working gates, high accuracy lifting roll in diameter of 3.5m and the 2.8m hard
surface gears machining for retarding device.
16.   Each constructor paid great attention to the shiplift project, the Owner held five
designing liaison meetings to jointly review the design and solve the key technical
problems with the Engineer, Designer and the manufacturer. Expert consultant groups
have been organized to solve the manufacturing problems respectively in Wuhan
Shipbuilding Corporation and Mining Machinery Corporation. In order to make
definition of the reliability, a group of tests have been made in Wuhan Shipping
Company, such as the Finite Element Model Test for the Chamber, Butt Hermetically-
Sealed Device, Electric-driven Test, Stressed Stability Deformation of the Pulley,
Operation Reliability of the Brake etc. The Mining Machinery Corp. of CITIC made a
research to the technology and design of big gear retarded device, and imported a
carbonized furnace in the diameter of 3.5m to meet the requirement of gear thermal
treatment. By August, 1997, most equipment had been delivered to the site. An integral
unit test and adjustment test for the main lifting device was carried out the following
month.
International Procurement for the Key Equipment and Materials of the Shiplift
17.   The procurement for the key equipment and materials was carried out through
ICB, or direct procurement, the procurement contracts have been well executed, and all
the equipment was delivered to the site or to the workshop of Wuhan Shipbuilding
Corporation in a timely manner.



49
Contract of Shiplift Installation
18.   On February 7, 1996, the contract for the shiplift installation was awarded to the
Wuhan Shipbuilding Corporation through negotiation, the contractor mobilized into the
site on June 5, 1996 and began his installation operation. By the end August 1998,
installation was basically completed
19.   The test and trial operation will be completed by the end of 1999 based on the
adjusted schedule.
500 kV Transmission Line and Switchyard Construction
Construction
20.   Quanzhou 500 kV substation has a total ground space of 104,385m2. The
construction was commenced on October 31, 1996, and was completed in mid-1997. The
Shuikou step-up substation was constructed on the site preserved for the original 500 kV
step-up substation for Shuikou Hydropower Plant. Because of the narrow area, the side
slopes of the substation were rather difficult to be treated. Further, the construction
blasting was restricted by the surroundings and the supply of the construction drawings
was lagged behind, so the construction of the Civil Works was commenced just in
December 1996. Civil works were basically complete by end of 1997.
Line Works
21.   According to the final preliminary design, the Shuikou-Quanzhou transmission
line is 203,639 km long in total, which treads through Minqing County, Yongtai County,
Xianyou County, Quanzhou City and Nan n City.
22.   The transmission line of this project is consisted of two portions, the newly
constructed portion and the upgrade portion. The newly constructed portion extends from
the Shuikou step-up substation to the 7# tower of the existing 220 kV Shuikou-Hui n II
and Im circuits, which has a total length of 5.35 km and nine steel towers.
Bidding and Procurement of the Equipment and Materials
Bidding and Procurement of the Equipment
23.   With the strong supports of the relevant departments of the State of the World
Bank, the bidding of the equipment and materials of this project were carried out rather
smoothly. Thirteen contracts were signed within six months of Board approval of the
new component. Equipment delivery was generally completed in the ensuing 12 months,
before the loan closing date. However, because of delay in award of two small contracts,
related to central government approvals, the closing date was extended by a further six
months which also provided the opportunity to purchase additional equipment utilizing
savings.



50
Erection and Equipment Installation
Transformer Substations
24.   From September 1997 to January 1998, the electrical equipment of the substations
was installed. From February 1998-March 1998, the equipment was debugged and
commissioned.
Transmission Lines
25.   By the end of 1997, the erection of the transmission lines in the newly
constructed sections was completed, inspected and accepted. In the dry season of October
1997-January 1998, the Shuikou-Hui n II and III circuits was transformned and upgraded.
From February 1998-to April, the system was debugged, tested and commissioned.
Power Grid Automation
26.   SCADA, SE, SA and OTS systems were put into operation after passing site
acceptance test (SAT) in September 1996. AGC/ED functions passed its SAT in May
1997 as scheduled. AGC automatically control the active power output of unit #1, #3, #5,
#6, #7 in Shuikou hydro power plant and maintains power grid frequency in the 50 +/-
0.1 HZ. AGC continuously since June 20, 1997. Quality rate of frequency is 99.56
percent. AGC make Fujian finish manual control frequency history and increased power
energy quality.
27.   For the remaining three functions, SLF, OPF, and UC, SAT tests were delayed
due to software defects. They finally passed SAT in November 1998.
Microwave Digital System
28.   We signed the first stage contract on September 9, 1994, the project covers
SanMing-Fuzhou-ZhangZhou District, altogether 20 stations. The second stage contract
was signed on May 8, 1995. This stage project contains SanMing-LongYan-ZhangZhou
District and XiaMen-SongYu Subtrunk, up to 11 station. Due to the delaying providing
products of Siemens part, the installation of the project was started till October 5, 1996,
under the well cooperation between two parts, we had finished the equipment installation
before January 23, 1997, and the whole circuit line was put in to running, replaced the
original analog microwave equipment. For the reason of lacking providing equipment by
Siemens part, some project problems still remained, of which includes: the supervisory
and control system has not been put into full running, function of remote operation of
PCM30H equipment has not fulfilled, the receiver level between Shuikou-MingQing two
stations is too low, the influence of power broken on normal working of PCM30H
equipment was huge, etc. Aiming at solving all above problems, both parts agreed to
have a cooperation meeting on April 17, 1997 in Fuzhou City, the meeting made it
definitely about the items of lacked equipment, date of providing equipment, time of
solving remaining problems, time of trial operation of system, and fine of against



51
contract, etc. With the effort of both parts, the project has been put into trial operation is
September 1997. However, it was not finally accepted until December 1998.
29.   With full operation of the system, it will improve greatly the quality of electric
power telecommunication transmission network, make the transmission trunk digitally,
expand the capacity of transmission, establish a stable foundation for fulfilling IDN and
ISDN in future.
30.  It will also provide excellent channels for electric power dispatch, hydroelectric
power dispatch, telecommunication dispatch, relay protection, AGC, the Safety
Automation equipment and manage switching networks for production and enterprise
manage networks, etc. ensure the safety in production of electric power networks, raise
the system benefit, and it would finally haste to modernize the manage of Fujian electric
power enterprise.
Resettlement works:
Progress
31.   According to the requirements of the civil works progress, an overall resettlement
works was commenced in the end of 1987. The works was divided into three stages:
Stage I before March 1990, 32,000 people were resettled; Stage 11 before March 1992,
20,000 were resettled and Stage III before March, 1993, the rest resettler were arranged to
move the reservoir area. The main progress were summarized as follows:
(a)   The resettlement organizations at provincial, prefectural and county levels
were established in the second half year of 1986, and the propaganda and
mobilization for resettlement were started.
(b)   In 1987, site investigation, planning and design were made for the
concentrated resettlement area.
(c)   The period for rebuilding is between 1988 and 1991. The land leveling,
housing bases, water and electricity supply and access road were
constructed sequentially for the Sage I and part of Stage 11 resettlement
places. The housing bases of 1,620,000 M2 were distributed on the
township and village basis. The house building and resettled work were
performned in great swing. Many difficulties were encountered due to the
tight schedule and financial shortage. In order to meet the requirements of
river transition from Stage 11 to Stage III, the operations of 'the house
reconstruction, resettlement and land leveling were carried out parallel as
well as the Stage I resettlement standards was changed from twenty years
round to ten years round. Ground leveling for stage 11 and III
resettlement started.



52
(d)   After 1992 the resettlement compensation was raised and the resettled
work for Stage 11 and III were executed smoothly by taking the
experience in Stage I resettlement work. At the same time, the perfection
work of the new resettlement places and the protection of the reservoir
banks were carried out. Some of resettlement places were integrally
inspected and accepted. With the joint efforts and full support from
various parties and resettlers, the overall resettlement work was finished
half a year ahead so as to ensure the requirements for timely reservoir
impoundment and power generation be met.
(e)   By the end of 1998, of the total resettlement budget which was finally
approved by the State of 1,423.16 million Yuan, 1,220.16 million Yuan
has been spent. The overall resettlement work has been basically finished.
The main remaining works are giving aid to the production and
development in the reservoir area and speeding up the investment to the
beneficial items; specially supporting the resettlers who are still below the
poverty line; and particularly planning and properly managing the
reservoir maintenance and construction fund.
Production Development in the Resettlement Area
32.   Since 1988, The resettlers has been led to develop the production system while
the resettlement physical works such as housing reconstruction and resettlement of people
were undertaken. From the second half of 1991 to 1992, the attention was paid on the
establishment of production development shifting from mobilization to the full swing
execution. In 1993, the production development was deepened further. In 1994, the
resettlers experienced a change from their house building to the production development,
from which they have increased their income.
33.   In general, a great achievement was made in the resettlement work of Shuikou
Project. The resettlers have worked and made a new life in their reclaimed land and
production system. Most of the resettlers have restored or exceeded their living standards
comparing with that before the resettlement. The production development has shown its
initial results, with the increasing of employment and economic opportunity, the
adjusting of industrial structures, and the perfecting of the infrastructure which has taken
on an alive new appearance in the resettlement area. The construction of Shuikou
Hydroelectric Project has not widened the gap between the rich and the poor resettlers in
the reservoir area, and the production and livelihood in the reservoir area has shown that
the developing future is hopeful. The resettlement project of Shuikou reservoir is a
successful example.
Independent Resettlement Monitoring
34.   This work is carried out under the care of the World bank experts. Since 1990
when the outlines of independent resettlement were put forward, the trace survey ahs
been performed with the support and collaboration of the Project Employer, the



53
provincial resettlement office for Shuikou Project, the resettlement offices of Nanping,
Gutian, Youxi, and Minqing counties, and the evaluators. An official independent
monitoring report is submitted to the World Bank each year ever since. The scheduled
independent monitoring set in the program was finished in 1997, and the last independent
monitoring report was submitted to the Bank.
Environmental Aspects
35.   The Environmental Management Program of Shuikou Hydropower Project was
completed and submitted to the World Bank in August 1991. The program covers the
aspects such as environmental monitoring of the watershed above the dam, measurement
of siltation in the reservoir, monitoring of the water quality, automatic hydrological
forecast, navigation, fishery in reservoir bays, prevention of soil erosion in the reservoir
peripheries, independent resettlement monitoring, afforestation in the project site, and
staff training in environmental monitoring.
36.   During the World Bank appraisal of the project for the second phase loan, a report
on implementation of the program was submitted to the World Bank mission. The
program implementation and achievements of the recent years are briefly summarized
herein.
Water Quality
37.   According to "Regulations of Grounding Water Observation in Fujian Province",
a total of five sections were set by the authority of Ninping City in Mingjian River, Jianxi
River and XiXi River to observe and analyze the water quality. By analyzing the water
quality index in the end section the reservoir before and after the reservoir impoundment
in 1993, it showed that the water quality index changes slightly between 1990 and 1995,
which indicates that the water quality before and after the reservoir impoundment does
not change evidently and the water in the reservoir has a strong migrating diffusion and
dilution capability.
Environmental Monitoring of Watershed above Dam
38.   The hydrology, metrorology and water quality in the watershed above the dam are
measured, as routine by relevant departments using the basic monitoring network (or
monitoring points), sorted and maintained according to the trade specifications. Such
data can be available from the relevant departments following the procedures stipulated
by the State Government.
Measurement of Siltation in Reservoir
39.   Measurement of siltation in the reservoir is conducted as advised by the World
Bank experts. The measurement is conducted after the flood season and once in a year
from 1989 through 1993. In the reservoir are arranged 22 measuring sections. The
measuring procedures and results have been reported to the World Bank mission.



54
Analysis on the measuring results show that the variation in siltation in the reservoir is
not big, which is in coincidence with the feature of the less-laden Minjiang River.
Prevention of Soil Erosion in Reservoir Area
40.   The soil erosion in the resettlement host areas has been harnessed after several
years effort. Many engineering measures have been adopted, including protection dikes
(or protection slopes) for the towns such as Xiadao, Taiping and Yuoxikou and Nanping
City. A water and soil conservation system has been formed in the reservoir peripheries
by biological means with afforestation as main measure. In 1996, a total of 14,977 mu of
land was planted with trees. As a result, the slopes (banks) in the reservoir peripheries
are basically stabilized.
Independent Resettlement Monitoring
41.   This work is carried out under the care of the World Bank experts. Since 1990
when the outlines of independent resettlement monitoring were put forward, the trace
survey has been performed with the support and collaboration of the Project Employer,
the provincial resettlement office for Shuikou Project, the resettlement offices in
Nanping, Gutain, Youxi and Minqing counties, and the evaluators. An official
independent monitoring report is submitted to the World Bank each year ever since. The
independent monitoring was finished as scheduled in 1997 and the last independent
monitoring report was submitted to the Bank.
Automatic Hydrological Forecast
42.   The overall plan for automatic hydrological forecasting was drawn up in
September 1992, and was examined and approved at the meeting held by the Water
Resources and Hydropower Planning and Design General Institute in Fuzhou in
November the same year. The forecasting system has been operating normally in its
service from May 1993. The system played an important role in reservoir regulation,
particularly in the flooding period from July 2-13 of 1997.
Navigation
43.   The affected navigation facilities in the reservoir areas (including wharves,
navigation signs and ferries) have all been relocated, rebuilt or expanded as planned. The
shiplock incorporated into the dam has already been in service and the shiplift will be put
into operation in 1999.
Fishery in Reservoir Bays
44.   The fishery industry in the reservoir has been rapidly developed recent years. In
1996, 78.63 mu of water surface was used for fishery in net cages, 2098 mu for fisher in
pools and 9399 mu for fishery by nets, and 1455 mu for cultivating pearl mussels and



55
turtles. Ten tons of eels were produced. By that year, the fishery plan for the reservoir
was basically realized, and little change has taken place in the following two years.
45.   The reforestation in construction area of main work includes the construction site
recovery, embankment access to Anrenxi and spoil area and service roads, etc. The total
area is about 210,000 M2 with 11.8 km long. The reforestation planning was started in
1994. Trees planting started at the beginning of 1996 and was completed in 1998, by
which time the following was achieved:
Completion Quantity and Investment for the Reforestation of Shuikou Project
Stage     Date       Square   Arbors   Bushes   Climbing   Flowery  Investment
(m2)                                Trees and    (Ten
Grass    Thousands
Yuan)
I     86.2-89.12      41,000    2,960    17,340    20,500     43,770       138.9
II    95.8-96.6       106,400   16,870   118,360    45,520    82,350       578.7
HI    96.10-97.6      100,050    3,110   107,680    87,350    51,900       465.0
lV    97.8-98.7       79,450    1,690   144,800   135,280     16,450       507.2
Total                326,900   24,630   388,280   288,650    194,470      1689.8
OPERATION PLAN OF SHUIKOU POWER PLANT
Dam and Powerhouse Works
Operation Condition of Shuikou Hydroelectric Power Plant
46.   Organization Structure and Staff Member for Shuikou Hydroelectric Power Plant
(SHPP) were founded and settled in May 1992 under the approval of the Fujian
Provincial Electric Power Bureau (the owner of the project). SHPP adopts the three-layer
management structures, namely, administration by the top, the division, and groups or
teams.
47.   One director, two vice-directors, and one chief engineer are appointed to executed
the managements of the operation and administration. In the management system, he
fixes the following departments: Administration Office, Finance Department, Labor and
Staff Management Department, Safety Supervision Department, Audit Office. Also, the
following ones are set in the execution system: Power Generation Department, Hydraulic-
Project Department, Maintenance and Overhaul Department and Navigation Department.
The fixed number of works is 360, exclusive of workers work on overhaul and
navigation. 53.1 percent of the staff members have been educated in colleges and



56
technology academies, others have been educated in special technical schools. Among
them 88 people are already on their profession titles of high or middle levels.
Economic and Technical Indication and Safety Operation
48.   The accumulative generation output from August 1993 to end of June 1997
reached to 16,350 GWh, in which:
(a)   In 1993, generation production, 564 GWh, operation hours 3123.
(b)   In 1994, generation production, 2960 GWh, operation hours 6549.
(c)   In 1995, generation production, 4770 GWh, operation hours 5966
(d)   In 1996, generation production, 4498 GWh, operation hours 3687 (it was
dry year in 1996. The river water was just 86 percent of the normal year.
(e)   In 1997, generation production 6009 GWh, operation hours 6652.
In 1998, generation production 7500 GWh, operation hours 6862.
49.  It was accounted that the unit cost of the generation was 101.26 Yuan RMB/MWh
by reducing the production cost.
50.   SHP pays a great attention to the safety operation, they established a three-level
network to ensure the safety operation system and set up a chain of regulations in
operation and safety management, executes safety operation responsibilities in different
levels, make clear the relationship between production and management, institute
management system for the defect treatment, equipment overhaul and grading etc. All of
these measures have been strictly checked. By taking these measures, the equipment
operate healthy. At present, the main equipment and flood-prevention facility are 100
percent in good operation condition. The record of safety operation reached to 1228
days.
Maintenance and Management to the E/M Equipment and Hydraulic Building
51.   SHPP puts in the first place of his equipment maintenance, does his best to ensure
equipment the health and safety operation and pays a great attention to training his
workers in technical fields. SHPP holds the comprehensive training of E/M system phase
by phase to his workers on post which win initial success. 350 technical workers have
been trained in technical skill accumulatively, and 56 people attended the college
correspondence course in spare time. Computer supervision and control system has been
used in Units 1#, 2#, 3#. The central dispatch has controlled the generation of Unit 5#
through auto-control system. And it was scheduled to put all the unit supervision system
into operation in September. Television and computer supervision system have been
erected to supervise the operation of 220 kV switchyard, which lays a foundation to
realize the aim of concentrated control and small number of people needed on duties.



57
52.   Before the flood season of this year, SHPC had completed renovating the tainter
gate 4# of the dam, so the condition of the gate has improved a little. Since the
renovation, the regiment auto-forecasting system was built and put into operation in May
1995. The 267.90 km2 of river valley is under the supervision of the forecasting system
(including two control stations in the established of the forecasting system (including two
control stations in the established Shaxikon system, eight relay stations and 41
telemetering stations.) This system has forecasted the annual flood peak and flood
quantity in the error under two percent and four percent respectively, and the average
value of flood peak and quantity in the error under 11 percent and 14 percent
respectively.
53.   According to the statistic, the accuracy on forecasting flood in foreseen period are
as follows: annual maximum flood peak 98.6 percent (>90 percent check figure), annual
maximum flood volume 97.7 percent (>90 percent check figure), each flood peak within
the year, 94.9 percent (>80 percent check figure), each flood volume measured within the
year, 95.2 percent (>80 percent check figure), time difference between flood peak
measure and actual, 2.9 hours, and 100 percent of the forecasting communication system
are going smoothly.



58
ANNEX 3
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LN. 2775)
AIDE MEMOIRE EXTRACT
54.   A World Bank mission comprising Barry Trembath, Martin ter Woort and Zhu
Youxuan visited Fujian over the period October 3 to October 12, 1997 to carry out a final
supervision of the project and to prepare for the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR). On the Bank's side, the mission was accompanied by Gordon Appleby from the
Bank Economic Development Institute (EDI). The mission commenced in Fuzhou with a
review of documentation provided by FPEPB, proceeded to Wuyi Mountain where
discussions were held over a two day period, and thence to Nanping at the upper end of
the Shuikou reservoir. From there, the mission carried out two days of inspections and
interviews in the reservoir resettlement areas finishing with a visit to the Shuikou Dam
and Power Station. The mission then returned to Fuzhou for the aide memoire
compilation and wrap-up meetings. The mission would like to thank FPEPB for the
excellent arrangements for the mission and the personnel from FPEPB, SHPC, SHPP,
SRRO and ECIDI and local government for the participation essential to the mission's
success. It is also appropriate on this mission, marking the completion of the
implementation phase of the Bank's two loans, extending over a 12 year period to offer
the Bank's congratulations to all involved parties on the success of the two projects and
to record the appreciation for the close cooperation, cordiality and hospitality which has
been extended to all Bank missions over the course of project implementation. This aide
memoire records the main findings of the mission and the agreements reached during its
course.
Construction Status
55. Shuikou Power Plant. Since the last mission finishing and clean-up works have
been completed, and the scrupulously clean power plant and ancillary areas indeed
present an impressive spectacle which is also very pleasing to the eye.
56. Dam. Finishing works on the dam are generally complete The only area or
remaining work is in relation to the tainter gates where some operational difficulties have
been experienced as reported during the last mission. Modifications were designed and
one gate was modified before the last wet season and operations during the season
demonstrated that the modifications satisfactorily addressed the problems. Now that the
wet season has ended, all gates will be similarly modified before the end of 1997.



59
57.   Shiplock. Since the last mission, the shiplock has generally operated
satisfactorily. By the end of August, 1997 some 15,252 vessels totaling 516,776 tons had
been passed. Availability has reached about 80 percent. However, there are still some
doubts on the structural integrity of the walls of the upper chamber even after
modifications carried out in late 1995. FPEPB commissioned special studies from
Qinghua and Hohai Universities which indicated that safety factors lower than desirable
considering the dynamic nature of the loading. For this reason, strengthening measures
have been designed which will implemented in the first quarter of 1998. It is unfortunate
that the lock will need to be taken out of operation during that period presenting
substantial interference to the fast growing water transport industry. The mission urged
FPEPB to take all measures necessary to minimize the outage period.
58.   Shiplift. The civil works are virtually complete with only architectural and
decoration work remaining. Equipment installation is also well underway. In building
the shiplift towers, the contractor faced an unprecedented challenge in needing to
maintain a 12 mm out of plane tolerance over the 73m height of the towers. The
contractor achieved this gaining congratulations from central government authorities.
However, the construction was somewhat delayed which, together with late delivery of
equipment has resulted in a projected slippage (in relation to the schedule produced in
1995) of about six months. First operation is now expected by mid-1998 with trial
operation and testing extending over the remainder of the year. All imported equipment
financed from the Bank loan has been delivered and paid for.
Resettlement
SRRO (Shuikou Reservoir Resettlement Office of Fujian Province)
59.   SRRO staff reported that to the end of 1996 total resettlement expenditures
amounted to Y1092 million. During 1996, expenditures were about Y35 million, mostly
spent on bank stabilization works and production development. It is anticipated that in
1997 a further Y35 million will be spent. On March 22, 1996, the central government
issued Circular No. 526 which allowed for the setting up of a reservoir development fund
(or later-stage support fund), utilizing 0.5 fen (0.005 yuan) per kWh of output for 10
years, starting in 1996. This has been adopted for the Shuikou reservoir (replacing the
Fujian Province temporary provision of 1995 which allowed a rate of 0.4 fen/kWh). At
an average annual output of 4,950 GWh, the Shuikou project would generate Y24.75
million annually to be used for ongoing reservoir development purposes. SRRO proposes
to use these funds for (i) new household enterprises; (ii) revolving loans for existing
enterprises; (iii) participation in new village enterprises; and (iv) income support for
vulnerable households. SRRO will remain in existence devoting their attention to the
funding of future development in the Shuikou reservoir area although it will also become
involved in other provincial resettlement projects. Actual programs will be implemented
at the county, town and village levels. The preferential policies of the province were
reviewed in 1995 and seven policies were extended to the year 2004, including lower
electricity tariffs.



60
60.   Production development and job creation continue at Shuikou: by mid-1997
some 38439 jobs had been provided (for a resettler population of 67239 persons, or 57
percent). These jobs are in agriculture (18664), livestock (2231), enterprises (5797), third
industry (5210), and other categories (6541). Close to half the labor force is now
engaged in non-agricultural activities and as ECIDI has reported, more than half the
area's income is derived from these non-agricultural activities. SRRO reported that as of
mid-1997, some 259 enterprises were in operation, out of a total of 347 relocated or
started since the beginning of resettlement. The reasons for the 88 fewer enterprises in
operation include: (i) some no longer required (e.g. brick-making plants closed now that
the housing has been constructed), (ii) some paper making plants closed for
environmental reasons, 3) some merged with other enterprises, and (iv) there were
bankruptcies. SRRO will be updating the inventory of active enterprises, using county
data. This information is required for the completion report and should therefore be made
available to the Bank before the end of 1997.
ECIDI - Independent Evaluation of Resettlement.
61.   Discussions were held with ECIDI staff on the results of the 1996 field survey
work undertaken; this field work was the last phase of the 5-year program which
consisted of collection of baseline data and four subsequent annual updates. The 1996
field work collected 1995 data from 35 villages and 524 households. The evaluation base
is now complete, showing before moving data and comparable information for 1992,
1993, 1994, and 1995. On an overall basis, the average person income more than
doubled, from Y780 before moving, to Y 1640 in 1995. On an inflation-adjusted basis,
the increase in real per person income averages about 15 percent over the period. There
are now only 20 households (out of 524) that have a per person income below Y600;
these are mostly households with only one person earning an income. At the same time.
there are 40 households (out of 524) that have a per person income exceeding Y2500.
While reservoir incomes are still below the provincial rural average by about ten percent,
the difference is getting smaller; ECIDI expects that on average, resettler incomes will
surpass rural provincial incomes by the year 2000, if the present trend continues.
62.   With the issuance of Report No. 9 (received by the Bank on October 3,1997),
ECIDI has come to the end of the 5-year evaluation contract with FPEPB. While it will
still prepare a summary report by mid-1998, the results of the evaluation are now
available, showing that by any measure the reservoir population was better off in 1995
than before. The evaluation has proven to be a valuable exercise that was able to
demonstrate in clear and quantitative terms the progress made over the 5-year period,
allowing SRRO and the local governments to continue their efforts when field data
showed that income re-establishment work was not yet completed. ECIDI has suggested
that developmental planning should continue at the town and village levels, especially for
those with below average perfornance so far. The finalization of the FPEPB/ECIDI
evaluation contract should include making available to FPEPB all the field data and
computations so that it will be possible for other parties (such as academics) to build on



61
this evaluation in the future and allow them to identify individual households for follow-
up visits.
63.   The mission, with the assistance of FPEPB, SRRO ECIDI and local leaders
carried out a three-day reservoir area inspection tour, visiting enterprises and
households. The overall conclusion is that the economy of the area and of its households
has developed well and is continuing to grow. Particularly, the completion of the new
Highway 316 from Nanping to Fuzhou is assisting the area greatly in taking advantage of
developmental opportunities. This transportation link will better connect the between-
lying area to the Fuzhou and Nanping economies, substantially benefiting this area in the
years ahead. It was also noted that reservoir navigation has expanded and is providing a
major service to the region aided by the Shuikou Dam shiplock now in operation.
64.   The mission also took the opportunity to review with ECIDI and SRRO the draft
completion report on resettlement prepared by the Bank. This report will eventually be
published (at least internally within the Bank and possibly externally) and should
demonstrate that Shuikou is an outstanding example of the preparation and
implementation of a resettlement project in China. In order to finalize the report, it is
necessary for SRRO to provide up-to-date information as requested, before the end of
October 1997.
Operations of the Shuikou Power Plant
65.   By the end of June 1997, the Shuikou power plant had generated 16350 GWh,
564 GWh in 1993, 2,960 GWh in 1994, 4,770 GWh in 1995 and 4,498 GWh in 1996 and
3558 GWh up until the end of June, 1997. Both the 1995 and 1996 figures are close to
the design average energy generation of 4950 GWh and the projected figure of 5,400
GWh for 1997 will substantially exceed it. The 1995 figure was achieved with only five
units generating throughout the high flow season because of favorable hydrology. The
1996 figure was achieved with only six units installed during the wet season and average
flow throughout the year being only 83 percent of normal (37.5 billion m3 in comparison
with 54.5 billion in3). The expectation therefore is that actual average energy generation
will exceed that projected at the design. This can be attributed to higher equipment
efficiencies than originally projected, and efficient operations, generally maintaining
water level in the reservoir as high as possible to maximize head, while using flood
warning systems to anticipate high flows and to reduce reservoir level in preparation for
them. In this respect, the accuracy of the flood warning system is particularly impressive.
66.   The mission received the Chinese version of a table comparing certain key
performance indicators with national and international standards. It requested that an
English version of this table be included be included in the revised ICR together with
descriptions andformulae defining the parameters. A breakdown of the station operating
cost was also requested.



62
Grid Automation Components
67.   The Energy Management System (EMS) contract, with Siemens Empros (USA) is
generally completed. Field testing was completed on September 12, 1996 and the final
payment was made on that date. The equipment is generally in operation. However,
there are a few functions which are not entirely satisfactory which could benefit from a
follow-up trip by the supplier. He is reluctant to do this because of the very low price
quoted for these functions. The mission advised FPEPB personnel that the Bank would
have no objection to them agreeing with the manufacturer that they pay for a follow-up
visit which could be financed from the Bank loan. However, the visit should be
completed and an invoice presented before the closing date of the loan..
68.   With regard to the Microwave Communication contract with Siemens Itatel
(Italy), equipment was delivered before the end of 1996, and installed in January, 1997.
The trial operation did not fully meet specifications, with software requiring some
refinement and some components missing. The manufacturer sent personnel to correct
deficiencies but some remain. In a recent meeting in Fuzhou, the contract manager agreed
with FPEPB the outstanding problems and agreed to correct them expeditiously. FPEPB
is still withholding 10 percent retention on this contract which appears to be justified.
However, it will be necessary to convert the retention into a Bank guarantee if the
problems are not corrected before the closing date.
Shuikou Quanzhou 500 kV Transmission Component (Loan Amendment)
69.  ICB Equipment. The 500 kV component was appraised during the April, 1996
mission, and amendment proposals were approved by the Board in July 1996. Bidding
documents were basically completed in June, 1996 and 14 of the 16 contracts signed by
the end of January, 1997. For various reasons, award of two smaller contracts for energy
metering and 220 kV power cables connecting the 220 kV and 500 kV switchyards at
Shuikou were delayed but these were eventually signed in September, 1997. Contract
additions for four contracts were also agreed by the Bank and these have also been
signed. Delivery of all equipment is scheduled to occur before the end of 1997 except for
the two small contracts mentioned above, with a total value of about $2.0 million, where
deliveries are scheduled to occur in January and early-February.
70.   Substations. For both Quanzhou and Shuikou substations, civil works are
virtually complete and installation contractors have mobilized to prepare for equipment
installation. Equipment installation is expected to be completed in January 1998.
Testing and commissioning will be carried out in February and March, 1998. Although
there have been some equipment delivery delays this is generally in accordance with the
schedule reported to the last mission.
71.   Transmission Lines. The transmission lines includes upgraded and newly built
sections. The newly built section consists of 113.35 km with 234 towers. Concrete
foundations have now been completed and steel towers erected. However, due to delays



63
in delivery of OPGW equipment only 45 km of line have been tensioned which is slightly
behind schedule. Re-stringing of the section to be upgraded will be carried out during
October, 1997 to January, 1998, during the period of low flow in the Min River, when the
output of the Shuikou power plant can be limited to the capacity of the remaining
transmission lines without resulting in spill.
Technical Assistance and Training Components
72.   All studies and training programs have now been satisfactorily completed. The
mission requested that the completion report include a brief write-up on the studies
carried out under the second project in the completion report. These include the
commercial management and planning study carried out by EDF, the extension of Study
A by Monenco (which should also report on the preparatory stages: the hydro inventory
update and gas turbine study).
FPEPB Financial Status
73.   Latest audited financial reports cover the period up until December 31, 1996.
During this period FPEPB's electricity sales were 19,461 GWh, compared with 17,578
GWh in 1995, a 10.7 percent increase. The average sales tariff was 34.1 fen/kWh
(including VAT), 3.8 fen or 11 percent more than in 1995. Operating revenues and net
income before taxes were Y6,636 million and Y363 million, representing increases of
24.5 percent and 9.3 percent respectively. Total assets increased 21.8 percent to Y20,266
million with the commissioning of further units of Shuikou power plant. Financial
covenants under the second loan were met with debt service ratio of 1.5 (compared with
1.5 covenanted), debt equity ratio 1,5: 1.0 (compared with 3.0:1.0 covenanted) and self-
fmancing ratio 42.5 percent (in comparison with 30 percent covenanted). The
satisfactory 1996 results were achieved despite the fact that it was a year of unfavorable
hydrology, with flows at Shuikou being only 83 percent of average. In 1997, flows have
been higher than average and substantial improvement can be expected. It can be
concluded that FPEPB's financial performance continues to be satisfactory.
FPEPB Tariff Reform
74.  (Progress since the last mission to be completed.) The mission requested that a
summary of tariff reforn activities during the second project (including the tariff study)
be included in FPEPB's completion report.
Closing Date
75.   The closing date for the second loan is December 31, 1997. However, as reported
above there are two small contracts for which payment will not become due until
February, 1998. The mission agreed to raise with Bank management the possibility of a
three month extension of the closing date and advise FPEPB accordingly. However, a
commitment has been made to produce the Bank's ICR during the current fiscal year



64
ending June, 1998, so that three months is the maximum extension that might be
anticipated. The mission will advise the Bank's position by the end of October. If an
extension is not forthcoming, it will be necessary to investigate the possibility of a
contract amendment to provide for advance payment in exchange for a Bank guarantee.
Completion Reports
76.   The Mission received a draft completion report from FPEPB (including SHPC)
together with an updated comprehensive resettlement report from SRRO, the latest
evaluation report from ECIDI, and a completion report from MKE. These reports
considerably facilitated the completion mission. Discussions over the course of the
mission focused on these reports. Some areas where additions have been requested have
been mentioned above. These and other areas where elaborations or additions have been
requested are attached as an annex to this aide memoire. the mission requested that the
revised report be sent to Washington by end-November, 1997.
Use of Savings
77.   During the course of the mission, various parties (including SHPP and the system
dispatch department) requested that the Bank finance small additional expenditures for
spare parts, equipment upgrades etc. The mission indicated no objection to this in
principle, and the procurement rules under the project allow for fast procurement of such
equipment. However, it is emphasized that payments should become due by the closing
date discussed in the previous paragraph.



65
ANNEX
FPEPB Completion Report
Requested Additions/Elaborations
Environment Report
1.   It was requested that the Environment annex prepared for the completion of the
first loan be updated and reissued. This should cover water quality results since the
previous issue and ongoing implementation of the EMP.
Resettlement Report
2.    Tables for completion were provided to FPEPB
Main Report
3.    Additional Information was requested in the areas of technical assistance, power
station perfornance indicators, power station operating cost breakdown and tariff reform
as indicated in the body of the aide memoire.
Cost Estimates
4.    To allow direct comparison between actual costs and those projected in the first
and second appraisal reports, the following elaborations were requested.
5.    Tables similar to those provided for the first ICR, giving expenditures by year
with separate tables for local and foreign currency should be provided for the following
components:
(a)   The original project scope covered by the first Shuikou loan. The actual
costs should exclude the 500 kV transmission line to East China since this
was deleted. MKE charges should be counted as Engineering (not
technical assistance). Foreign expenditures for resettlement should be
included under this heading rather than Metalworks. It would be
reasonable to include studies and training for both phases under technical
assistance since Phase expenditures were relatively small and not counted
as additional scope in the SAR for the second loan. Expenditures which
were intentionally excluded from the costs in the first SAR (such as the
railway) should be excluded (but noted in footnotes).
(b)   Additional Scope as indicated in second ICR should separately cover all
shiplift costs, and grid automation (including communications).



66
(c)   Shuikou Quanzhou Transmission as covered by loan amendment
submitted to Board This should also include local costs since these were
included in the submission to the Board.
Energy Prices for Economic Analysis
6.    For examining various measures of willingness to pay, the following information
was requested:
(a)   FPEPB average selling tariff 1997 (including VAT).
(b)   An estimate of average surcharge beyond the FPEPB tariff, whether
imposed by FPEPB, national, provincial or local governments. Adding
this to the FPEPB tariff should give average value paid by final
consumers.
(c)   FPEPB purchase cost for Shuikou power (at powerhouse (busbars or
transformers).
(d)   FPEPB average purchase cost (from power plants or other systems)
(e)   Largest purchase cost paid or projected to be paid to any power plant (in
1997 prices). Explain which one.
FPEPB transmission losses (percent). Difference between power sold and power
purchased from power plants.



