Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3515-CHA
(Second Shuikou Hydroelectric Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FUJIAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
Dated October 20, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3515-CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 20, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FUJIAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU (FPEPB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred million 
dollars ($100,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that FPEPB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank 
as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and FPEPB, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
relent to FPEPB on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS FPEPB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) FPEPB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to 
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and FPEPB shall otherwise agree, FPEPB shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. FPEPB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and the Project.
Section 2.04. FPEPB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FPEPB shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) FPEPB shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
FPEPB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by FPEPB of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FPEPB
Section 3.01. FPEPB shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. FPEPB shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
adminitrative, financial, and engineering practices.
Section 3.03. FPEPB shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
Page  3
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) FPEPB shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
FPEPB shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial statements 
for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, FPEPB shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FPEPB shall not 
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of FPEPB 
shows that the projected internal cash generation of FPEPB for each fiscal year during 
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 times, before December 31, 
1995 and 1.5 times thereafter, the estimated debt service requirements of FPEPB in 
such year on all its debt including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of FPEPB maturing by its 
terms more than one 
year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of 
payment on the date of such 
Page  4
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into.
(iii)
The term "internal cash generation of FPEPB" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income, excluding receipts 
for consumer connection charges; 
and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration,
provision of maintenance special fund, and sales and income 
taxes and 
payments in lieu of such taxes, but excluding 
provision for depreciation, 
and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the 
generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, 
debt, excluding capitalized 
interest during construction.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by FPEPB 
not earlier than 
twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both the Bank 
and FPEPB accept as reasonable and as to 
which the Bank has notified FPEPB of its 
acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred since such notification which 
has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect 
on the financial condition or future operating results of FPEPB.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms 
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FPEPB shall not 
incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall 
be greater than 75 to 25 for the
years 1992 through December 31, 1996, and 70 to 30 thereafter. 
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of FPEPB maturing by its 
terms more than one 
year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of 
payment on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into.
(iii)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained 
earnings and reserves of FPEPB not allocated 
Page  5
to cover specific liabilities.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms 
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04.  (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FPEPB shall from 
time to time take, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the levels and structure of its electricity tariffs as 
determined by the Borrower) as shall be required to produce, for each of its fiscal 
years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1992, net cash surplus equivalent 
to not less than (i) 22 percent of its average annual investment program for the years 
1992-93, (ii) 25 percent for the years 1994 and 1995, and (iii) 30 percent thereafter.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "net cash surplus" means total operating income minus the 
sum of: (A) cash
operating expenses; and (B) financial obligations;
(ii)
The term "total operating income" means the sum of revenues from 
all sources 
related to operations and net non-operating income;
 
(iii)
The term "cash operating expenses" means the sum of expenses 
related to operations, 
including maintenance and administration but 
excluding depreciation; and
(iv)
The term "financial obligations" means interest and other charges 
on debt 
(excluding interest during construction), 
repayment of loans (including sinking 
fund payments, if any), 
all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes; allocations to 
special funds and other cash distributions of surplus funds (including mandatory 
transfers to the Borrower), and any other cash outflows (other 
than capital 
expenditures) related to operations.
 
Section 4.05.  FPEPB shall continue to prepare and furnish to the Bank for its 
review, by April 30 of each year, a rolling long-term financial plan containing, inter 
alia, projected income statements, sources and uses of funds, and balance sheets for 
each of the next eight years.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of FPEPB 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify FPEPB thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Page  6
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For FPEPB:
Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau
49 Wusi Road
Fuzhou 350003
Fujian Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
8196
92172 BEPFP CN
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of FPEPB, or by 
FPEPB on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by Director of FPEPB or such other 
person or persons as Director of FPEPB shall designate in writing, and FPEPB shall 
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
FUJIAN PROVINCE ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
By  /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
Page  7
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Items or groups of items for goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of less 
than $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist FPEPB in carrying out the Project, FPEPB shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  8
Implementation Program
1.
FPEPB shall: (a) propose to the Bank arrangements for inspection of the dam, 
waterways, earthworks and reservoir banks and their appurtenant structures (all 
collectively referred to herein as
Structures and Earthworks) being constructed under the Project, by December 31, 1992, 
(b) with the assistance of independent engineering experts whose qualifications and 
experience shall be reviewed with the Bank, periodically inspect or cause to be 
inspected the Structures and Earthworks after completion of the Project, under 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with appropriate engineering 
practices, in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition 
of the Structures and Earthworks, or in the quality and adequacy of earthworks which 
may endanger the safety of the Structures and Earthworks, (c) furnish, or cause to be 
furnished to the Bank, promptly after each such inspection, the conclusions thereof 
including the conclusions of said engineering experts, (d) make, promptly after each 
such inspection, all necessary repairs of the Structures and Earthworks, and (e) make 
all necessary modifications in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of 
operation
of the Structures and Earthworks, all to be in accordance with appropriate engineering 
practices.
2.
FPEPB shall implement a plan for power tariff structure improvements acceptable 
to the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, including the completion of the 
first phase by December 31, 1993.
3.
FPEPB shall carry out a transmission expansion program which includes 
integration of facilities under Part A of the Project and the Fujian Province Grid in 
accordance with a schedule satisfactory
to the Bank.
4.
FPEPB shall carry out hydro-inventory reevaluation with timing, specialist 
assistance and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
FPEPB shall in collaboration with the Borrower (a) continue to carry out or 
cause to be carried out the resettlement program, provided for in Section 3.05 of the 
Prior Loan Agreement, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, and (b)(i) undertake an 
independent evaluation of resettlement (IER), (ii) monitor the IER reports, (iii) take 
action to accelerate the reestablishment of income and welfare of Affected Persons in 
problem areas identified in the said reports, and (iv) make funds available to sustain 
incomes of Affected Persons at adequate levels, acceptable to the Bank, until the said 
incomes are fully restored.
6.
FPEPB shall, in collaboration with the Borrower, undertake an environmental 
action plan, acceptable to the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
