Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3515-CHA
(Second Shuikou Hydroelectric Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 20, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3515-CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 20, 1992, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
(B)
Part A.5 of the Project will be carried out jointly by the Borrower and 
Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau (FPEPB as herein defined);
(C)
Parts A.1-A.4 and B of the Project will be carried out by FPEPB with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to FPEPB the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
FPEPB;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Affected Persons" means the persons whose residential accommodations and 
means of livelihood have been adversely affected by the Scheme;
(b)
"Charter" means the Charter of FPEPB issued by the Borrower's Ministry of 
Water Resources and Electric Power on November 16, 1985;
(c)
"FPEPB" means the Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau, a state-owned 
enterprise of the Borrower established and operating pursuant to its Charter;
(d)
"Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement dated January 15, 1987, 
(Shuikou Hydroelectric Project - Loan No. 2775-CHA) between the Borrower and the Bank, 
as amended, and, where the
context permits, includes the Project Agreement of even date therewith between the 
Bank and FPEPB;
(e)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and FPEPB of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(f)
"Scheme" means the Shuikou Hydroelectric Scheme described in Part A of 
Schedule 2 to the Prior Loan Agreement;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(h)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and FPEPB pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and "Subsidiary 
Loan" means the loan provided under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals 
of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of 
such withdrawal.
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank and on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the  Bank's investments; and (B) loans which 
may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined 
otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
Page  4
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. FPEPB is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part A.5 of the Project, jointly with FPEPB, with 
due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and 
engineering practices and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other 
resources required for such part of the Project; and
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause 
FPEPB to perform all its obligations set forth 
in the Project 
Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable FPEPB to perform such obligations, and shall 
not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to FPEPB, under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and FPEPB, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank including the following: (i) the term of the Subsidiary Loan shall be twenty 
years, including five years grace, (ii) FPEPB shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate 
equal to the rate payable by the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement, (iii) FPEPB shall pay to the Borrower a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time at the rate stated in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement, and (iv) FPEPB shall bear all foreign exchange risks 
and shall repay the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan equivalent to the 
principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 
2.07 of this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by FPEPB pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Page  5
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall in collaboration with FPEPB (a) continue to 
carry out or cause to be carried out the resettlement program, provided for in Section 
3.05 of the Prior Loan Agreement, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, and (b)(i) 
undertake an independent evaluation of resettlement (IER), (ii) monitor the IER 
reports, (iii) take action to accelerate the reestablishment of income and welfare of 
Affected Persons in problem areas identified in the said reports, and (iv) make funds 
available to 
sustain incomes of Affected Persons at adequate levels, acceptable to the Bank, until 
the said incomes are fully restored.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall, in collaboration with FPEPB, undertake an 
environmental action plan, acceptable to the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
FPEPB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that FPEPB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of FPEPB to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FPEPB or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
Page  6
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and FPEPB; and
(b)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Loan Agreement.
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by FPEPB, 
and is legally binding upon FPEPB in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and FPEPB and is legally binding upon the Borrower and FPEPB in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
Page  7
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/  Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category             Dollar Equivalent   to be Financed
(1)   Civil works               44,000,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(2)   Equipment and             40,000,000      100% of foreign
      materials                                 expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3)   Consultants'               6,000,000      100%
      services and
      training
(4)   Unallocated               10,000,000
                               -----------
      TOTAL                    100,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
Page  8
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories 1, 2 and 3 on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after December 31, 1991.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in completing the 
Shuikou Hydroelectric Scheme and to additionally promote (a) transfer of modern power 
system technology, (b) power price reform, (c) management training to assist FPEPB to 
cope with increasing demands placed on it by decentralization, and (d) optimal system 
expansion. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Dam and Power Facilities Construction
 
1.
Completion of a 101 meter high concrete gravity dam with associated spillway, 
powerhouse, and navigation facilities.
2.
Supply and installation of seven 200 megawatt generating sets and associated 
electric and mechanical equipment.
3.
Construction and equipping of a substation and a switchyard to connect the power 
house to the Fujian Province grid.
4.
Construction and equipping of a supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) 
system (including a communications system) for the Fujian Province grid.
5.
Undertaking environmental management and resettlement of Affected Persons.
 
Part B:
Institutional Development
 
1.
Implementation of an action plan for power tariff reform.
 
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training programs in planning, commercial 
and financial management and project-related technology and management.
3.
Undertaking and completing studies on the reevaluation of hydro-inventory of 
Fujian Province and system planning and operation.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1998
through   March 15, 2012
3,335,000
 
On September 15, 2012
3,285,000
Page  9
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Page  10
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2 and 3 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  
On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
Page  11
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
