Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10256
Report No. 10256-YEM Type: (PCR)
MAUPRIVEZ,/ X31709 / T9 069/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1361-YAR)
DECEMBER 31, 1991
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURENC ZQEOUIVALENTS
Currency unit             -     Yemen Rial (YR1)
YR1 1               -     100 f!ls
Official Rates
YR1 1                     US$0.022  (1993)
YR1 1               -     US$12.02  (1991)
WEIGHTS MM MEASURES
1 kilowatt (kw)           -     1,000 watts (103W)
1 Megawatt (MW)           -     1,000 kilowatts (10kW)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)    -      1,000 watt hours (10Wh)
1 Megawatt hour (MWh)    -      1,000 kWh (103kWh)
1 Gigawatt hour (GWh)    -      1,000,000 kWh (10kWh)
1 kilovolt (kV)           -     1,000 volt (103V)
1 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)  -      1,000 volt-ampere (103VA)
1 Megavolt-ampere (MVA)  -      1,000 kilovolt-ampere (103kVA)
1 kilogram (kg)           -     2,206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (metric ton)        -     1,000 kg
1 meter (m)               -     3.281 feet (ft)
1 millimeter (mm)         -     0.001 m
1 kilometer (km)          -     1,000 m - 3,281 ft
GLOSS       ABBREVIATIONS
AFESD        Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
COCA         Central Organization for Control and Auditing
FAP          Financial Action Plan
FRP          Financial Recovery Plan
IDA          International Development Association
IDB          Islamic Development Bank
K&D          Kennedy & Donkin
MEW          Ministry of Electricity and Water
NPM          Net Profit Margin
NPBI         Net Profit Before Interest as a Percentage of Income
ROR          Rate of Return
NRECA        National Rural Electric Cooperative Association
ODA          Overseas Development Administration
PMK          Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co.
YAR          Yemen Arab Republic
YGEC         Yemen General Electricity Corporation
YOMINCO      Yemen Oil and Mineral Resources Cooperation
NGENE    ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
FISL YER
July 1 to June 30 (until 1980)
January 1 to December 31 (from 1981)



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O0ffce of DCv e.-Geniral
Ope atiow Evakuatkon
February 4, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Republic of Yemen
Third Power Project
(Credit 1361-YAR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Republic of Yemen - Third Power Project (Credit 1361-YAR)"
prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department: at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD POWER PROJECT
CREDIT 1361- Y- M
Page No.
PREFACE    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    i
EVALUATION SUM1MARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ii
Part I:  Project Review from the Bank's Perspective  . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Background ........................   1
The Power Subsector .1................. . .
IDA Involvement in the Subsector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Changes in Project Scope  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Rural Distribution ......... .              .         ... 4
Urban Distribution ..................                                       4
Technical Assistance ......... .              .         ... 5
Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Project Cost  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Distribution Components   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Technical Assistance .................                                   . 7
Project Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Foreign Costs Financing   ..................  7
Local Costs Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Project Results ........ ... 9
A. General .................... 9
B.   Institutional Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
C.  Technical Assistance ................. . 10
Financial Recovery Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Training ...................                                        11
Academic Training ................. . 11
On-the-job-t:_ining   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
D.  Financial Perfo-:mance  . ............... . 12
YGEC Accounts Receivable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Debt Service Coverage ............... . 15
Tariffs ...................                                         15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont.)
E. Audits ....                                               16
Economic Rate of Return  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Sustainability    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   18
Bank  Performance    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   19
Borrower Performance . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . 19
Consultants and Contractors' Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Part II:  Project Review from Beneficiary's Perspective . . . . . . . . 21
A.  Operations .......................  .  21
B.  Implementation . . . ...........  ..  ..  ..  .   . 21
C. Performance of Contractors  ......  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .   . 22
D.  Bank's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
E.  Borrower's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
F.  Bank/Borrower Relationship ......  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  .   . 23
G. Cofinanciers  ....................  ..  . 23
H.  Performance of Consultants Electricity Supply Board of
Irland (ESB) for Financial Recovery Plan . . . . . . . . 23
I.  Performance of Consultants for Urban
and Rural Components  .......  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  .  . 24
Part III: Statistical Information .25
Table 1.  Related Bank Loans and Credits   . . I . . . . . . . 25
Table 2.  Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Table 3.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements  . . . 27
Table 4.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Table 5.  Project Cost  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Table 6.  Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Table 7.  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit  . . . . . 30
Table 8.  Direct Benefits  ......   .........  ..   . 31
Table 9.  Economic Impact ......   .........  ..   . 32
Table 10.  Studies ........ ..............  33
Table 11.  Status of Major Covenants  ... .......  .  .   . 35
Table 12.  Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Table 13.  Missions  ........   ............   . 38
Table 14.  YGEC Actual and Estimated Income Statements
(Fiscal Years 1983-90)   .      ....... . 39
Table 15.  YGEC Actual and Estimated Balance Sheets
(Fiscal Years 1983-90)   .      ....... . 40
Table 16.  YGEC Actual and Estimated Sources and Application
of Funds Statements (Fiscal Years 1983-90) .. 41
Table 17.  Financial Performance Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . 42



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1361-YAR)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Power Project, for
which Credit 1361-YAR in the amount of SDR 17.5 million (US$19.0 million
equivalent) was approved on May 10, 1983. The Credit was made to the Government
of Yemen and onlent to the Yement General Electricity Corporation (YGEC).
The Credit was made effective on August 9, 1984, and closed on June 28.
1991 about four years behind schedule under "extended disbursement", about SDR
0.155 million remained undisbursed as of January 31, 1992 and this amount will
be cancelled.
Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by the Industry and Energy
Division, Country Department II, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office.
Part II was prepared by the Beneficiary, YGEC.
Preparation of this report was started during a Bank PCR mission in June
1991, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, President's
Report, Credit, Guarantee and Project Agreements; supervision reports; and
correspondence between the International Development Association (IDA) and the
Borrower/Beneficiary.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YENEN
THIRD POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1361-YAR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objecti
The project was destgned to assist the YGEC in extending its
service, at least cost, in the urban and rural area3, facilitate the better
utilization of its generation and transmission facilities, and strengthen its
staffing, management, planning and finances. It was also intended to assist
the Borrower in formulating technical standards for private electricity
generation installations. Upon completion, the project was to extend
electricity service to about 15,500 new consumers (total beneficiaries would
be about 125,000 urban and rural inhabitants), upgrade the service provided to
about 4,500 existing urban customers, and provide the facilities that would
permit connection of about 20 MW of industrial and commercial load to the
national grid.
Implementation Experience
The project took 96 months to complete (April 1983-May 1991)
instead of the 42 months forecast at appraisal (March 1983-September 1986) due
to delays in project effectiveness (Table 2); lack of proper planning and
management on the part of the contra.: ors; pnor quality materials provided by
suppliers which necessitated reordering and sometimes cessation of work; major
delay by the Government in approving the contract for the urban component
(para 7.03), and the Governments' unwillingness to allow YGEC to raise its
tariffs (para 8.26) and the resultant breach of financial covenants (paras
8.17-8.23). The Financial Recovery Plan (FRP) component (paras 8.07-8.10)
under the technical assistance portion of the project also suffered delays
mainly due to inadequacy of existing accounting and financial systems and
delays in acquisition of com-puter equipment.
Results
In spite of major implementation delays, the physical components
of the project were achieved. The distribution component, which aimed at
providing electrical service to 15,500 new,consumers in predominantly rural
areas, and upgrading the service to 4,500 existing consumers, has been
achieved, at a cost of about 5 percent less than originally estimated. It is
also significant to note that a greater 'Lngth of sub-transmission line has
been erected, and a greater transformer capacity installed. This will allow
YGEC to extend service to many more new consumers at a minimum cost. However,
financial targets under the project were not achieved. Financial performance
has deteriorated significantly and YGEC is in breach of the financial
covenants. Institutional performance of YGEC rematns weak (paras 8.02-8.06),
and the technical assistance component (FRP; studies - Table 10 and para 4.06;
and training - paras 8.12-8.15) fell short of expectations.
Sustainabilitv
The required maintenance and repair tasks for the distribution
facilities are clearly within YGEC's eapability to execute. However,
sustainability will more importantly depend on the financial strength of YGEC
and therefore its ability to provide the materials required for maintenance



- lii -
and repair work. The issue of YGEC's financial performance is being addressed
under the ongoing Fourth Power Project through the proposed tariff study which
is expected to lay the basis for tariff policy for the unified Yemen (Table
10). However, even though some of the factors influencing YGEC's present
finacial position are effectively outside its control (e.g. tariff, fuel
prices etc.), YGEC's critical financial situation results as much from
insufficient revenues as from high operating costs (para 8.03). The
institutional building and manpower development of YGEC, was an important
aspect of this Credit, the previous two IDA credits, and the ongoing Fourth
Power Project. However, much still needs to be done to help YGEC to
strengthen its capacity to systematicaly plan and manage its operations in a
financially viable manner.
Lessons Learned
(a)         The Bank's flexibility in handling the financial issues as
demonstrated by the downward revision of financial targets was not
reciprocated by the Government and YGEC, who instead repeatedly cited social
reasons for not taking decisions to raise tariffs. An important lesson from
this project is that although relaxation of financial conditionality may be
justifiable cn occasion to allow continuation of policy dialogue, such
relaxations should be made only if the Government shows its good faith by
taking at least some tariff action, and when there is evidence of a strong and
clear commitment on the part of Government to take further action to deal with
the sector's financial problems. Furthermore it might be useful for the Bank
to require upfront satisfactory progress in electricity tariff reforms prior
to loan approval.
(b)         Because of the difficulties with procurement and financial
covenants, inadequate attc&ition was paid by both the Borrower and the Bank, in
the early stages of project implementation, to some of the software components
of the project (i.e. training and studies). As a result all three studies
included under the project have not yet been undertaken and Bank fu-ding
originally intended for on-the-job training was utilized for overseas training
without careful monitoring of the adequacy of such training. An important
lesson is that when the Borrower's implementation capacity is limited,
software components should be carefully prioritized and only those which are
essential to meet the project's objectives should be included. In this case
the software components were somewhat excessive given YGEC's relatively weak
implementation capacity.
(c)         This project as well as the previous two Power Projects (Credits
837-YAR and 1102-YAR) have been completed well after the initial target dates
(para 7.05). In scheduling future projects, care should be taken to ensure
that the implementation schedule is based on a program that is achievable,
taking into consideration the capacity of the concerned Government agencies
and the Beneficiary, and the complexity of the project.



PRON COMPI,lOR ]RE3PORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1361-YAR!
I. PROJECT IDENTIFY
Project Name :    Third Power Project
Credit No.         1361-YAR
RVP Unit      :    Middle East ard North Africa Regional. Country
Department II, Industry and Energy Division
Sector        :    Energy
Subsector    :    Power
II. BACKGROUND
The Power Subsector
2.01        Power sector development in the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) is a
recent phenomenon. The installed generating capacity grew from about 2 MW in
1962 to 20 MW in 1975 and was divided among 21 small independent utilities
which, due to shortage of capital needed for expansion of their systems, were
supplying power only to the centers of the main cities and large towns. As a
result, the generation of electricity by industrial, commercial, and private
autoproducers and entrepreneurs became widespread. Due to the absence of
construction standards and lack of expertise in the field, the predominant
characteristic of autogenertion was its poor quality. In 1975 the Government
established YGEC to take over the operation of private companies and to
eventually become solely responsible for the public supply of electricity in
YAR.
2.02        With financial support provided by aid donors, international
lending institutions and the Government, and technical assistance provided by
consultants and expatriate staff, YGEC managed in the period from 1976-1983,
to increase its installed generating capacity by about eightfold (from 15 MW
to 120 MW), the number of consumers by fourfold (from 36,000 to 133,000) and
electricity sales and system's peak demand by sixfold (from 34 to 200 GWh and
from 11 MW to 67 MW respectively). In spite of this spectacular growth, YGEC
was still unable to meet the demand for electrical power in YAR.
2.03         In 1983, at the time of project appraisal, 93 MW of YGEC's
installed generating capacity of 120 MW, were installed in the main cities of
Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida. About 33 percent of the population had access to
electricity service, but only 9 percent were served by YGEC and the balance by
small privately owned generating sets, which were for the most part badly run
and inefficient. The Government's objective was for YGEC to implement a
program that would provide public electricity service to about 80 percent of



~2.
the population by 1998. Considering the low percentage of the population
supplied by YGEC, the dispersion of the rural population, the financial
constraints and the shortage of skilled labor the Government goal seemed very
optimistic.
2.04        The relatively low access to YGEC's service outside the cities and
main towns persisted because since 1977, YGEC invested heavily in generating
and transmission facilities and inadequately in distribution facilities. This
was mainly due to YGEC's easier access to funds for investments in power
generation plants and transmission lines than for di3tribution facilities, but
weak planning also to,&' its toll. Thus supply of electricity service in rural
Yemen did not increase as fast as desired and substantial investment in
distribution (estimated at about US$250 million over an 8-year period) would
be required to utilize available and committed generating capacity. In light
of an extensive dialogue with IDA about sectoral programs ad policies (Power
Subsector Review, 1983) the Government and YGEC realized the shortcomings of
their investment decisions and intensive efforts were made to secure funds for
distribution projects.
2.05        YGEC provides electrical energy to its consumers by two methods,
namely via the 132-kV interconnected grid which is supplied by the thermal
stations at Ras Khatenib (5 x 33 MW) and Al-Mukha (4 x 40 MW), and diesel
stations in the urban areas of Sana'a, Hodeidah, and Taiz, and via about 33
isolated systems throughout the country supplied with diesel generators (total
capacity 26 MW) and local distribution facilities. in 1990, 94 percent of the
gross generation was provided by the grid. YGEC anticipates that by the year
2000, the total generating capability of the interconnected grid would rise to
about 600 MW, and that the isolated systems would fall to about 18 MW as more
isolated areas are connected to the grid.
2.06        There is an excess of generating capacity in the interconnected
system. In 1990, the maximum demand on the system was 190 MW,indicating a
reserve of about 100 percent. With the expected growth in th'e demand for
electrical energy, this margin is expected to disappear by 1914 even after
taking into account the planned interconnection of YGEC systemn with that of
PCEP by 1993.
IDA Involvement in the Sector
2.07        This project was the third IDA operation in the power subsector in
YAR (Table 1). The First and Second Credits (837-YAR and 1102-YAR) provided
the opportunity for IDA to engage in a meaningful dialogue with YGEC and the
Government on the problems of the subsector, since the early years of YGEC's
creation. The main thrust of both credits was towards institution building
and manpower development. In addition, general policy issues such as
rationalization of fuel prices and electricity tariff levels were addressed,
though progress in these fields was halting and uneven.



- 3 -
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.01        The project aimed at meeting some of the demand for electricity in
rural areas, following up on the rehabilitation program of Sana'a, Hodeidah
and Taiz, and providing the necessary facilities that would allow connection
of industrial consumers to the nati'    grid.  It would enable YGEC to
increase its sales (revenues) by ta. .g advantage of existing excess
generating and transmission capacity, achieve fuel savings through replacing
autogeneration by industrial customers with more efficient generation from
YGEC's grid and reduce the need for new autogeneration capacity. When
completed, the project was to extend electricity service to about 15,500 new
consumers (total beneficiaries would be about 125,000 urban and rural
inhabitants), upgrade the service provided to about 4,500 existing urban
customers, and provide the facilities that wo'uld peLmit connection of about 20
KW of  industrial and commercial load to the national grid.
Project DescriDtion
3.02        The project as envisaged at appraisal was to include:
(i) installation of a distribution network in the areas of
Badan, Al Misrakh and Marawiah, and connecting them to the
main grid;
(ii) expansion of the distribution network in the area of
Bani Hushaysh;
(iii) upgrading and expansion of the distribution networks
in the cities of Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah; and
(iv) construction of subtransmission lines to connect
industrial consumers situated in and around the cities of
Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah.
The abt-  components would require the supply, construction and erection of
about:
(a) 930 km of medium and low voltage lines;
(b) 33 substations (total capacity 90 MVA);
(c) 300 distribution transformers (total capacity 14 MVA);
(d) 15,500 meters and boards; and
(e) 1,300 streetlights.
In addition, funds for the following technical assistance were included:
(i) instrumentation and technical assistance in conducting a load
research study;
(ii) consulting services to computerize YGEC's accounting and
billing operations;



-4-
(iii) consulting services for the fotmulation of a unified and
balanced expansion program for YGEC through the year 1993;
(iv) consulting services for the formulation and implementation of
construction standards for low voltage distribution systems;
(v) consulting services for the formulation and implementation of
a financial recovery plan; and
(vi) on-the-job training.
IV. CHANGES IN PROJECT SCOPE
Rural Distribution
4.01        About 1.1 percent more consumers than estimated at appraisal
(15,672 against 15,500) were added to the new distribution networks in the
previously unserved areas of Badan, Al Misrakh and Marawiah, through expansion
of the distribution network in the Bani Hushaysh area. The increase in the
number of consumers resulted in the following charnges to the project scope:
(i) an increase in the length of the 3-phase and 1-phase 11 kV line from about
190 km to about 507 km; (ii) an increase in transformer capacity from 9,740
kVA to 21,520 kVA; and (iii) an addition of 59 km of 16 mm cable for service
connections.
4.02        The increase in the length of the 11 kV lines was caused by the
addition of a number of new villages which though not part of the original
electrification plan were conveniently located close to the route of the
lines. The increase in transformer capacity resulted from the substitution of
smaller single phase transformers, more appropriate for the low demand in the
villages, for the 3-phase transformers originally envisaged.
4.03        The project cost increases caused by these changes in project
scope were partly compensated for by the decrease in the length of the 33 kV
line from the 69 km estimated at appraisal to about 50 km. However, the net
increase in the foreign cost of the component was substantial (about 43% -
para 6.02).
4.04        Although street lights were purchased, these were only installed
in Marawiah where there is an existing agreement for payment of ener&y between
the municipality and YGEC. and the remaining were handed over to YGEC.
Urban Distribution
4.05        This component of the Project consisted primarily of replacing
facilities to upgrade the service to about 4,500 existing urban consumers in
Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah. A number of changes to the original plan were made
resulting in the replacement of facilities for about 6,725 customers (about 50
percent more than appraisal estimate) and provision of benefits to other
consumers in contiguous areas. The main changes in the scope of this



- 5 -
component were: (i) an increase in the length of both the 33 kV lines and 11
*     kV lines (and the number of related transformers and other facilities) as
delays in project implementation led to further deterioration of the lines and
facilities; and (ii) an increase in the length of the 16 mm SCNE cable from 78
km to 250 km because of the higher number of consumers whose facilities were
upgraded.
Tofchnical Assistance
4.06        Studies.  Three studies were to be carried out under this Credit
(Table 10). These were:
* Load Research and Consumer Classification (Tariff Study)
* Construction Standards Study
* Expansion and Investment Program Study.
Because of the higher foreign costs of the rural electrification and technical
assistance components (paras 6.02 and 6.04), no foreign exchange financing was
available to implement these studies under the project. In view of its
urgency and importance in addressing the issue of YGEC's financial viability,
the Bank agreed to finance the Tariff Study under the on-going Fourth Power
Project (Credit 1701-YAR). Part of the Generation Expansion Study is also
being considered under the Gas Utilization Study undertaken by Netherlands
consultants under Dutch Government financing. To complete this study and the
Construction Standards Study the Government and YGEC agreed to seek
alternative financing sources.
4.07        Financial Recovery Plan (FRP) and Computerization of Accounting
and Billing (para 8.07-8.10). These were originally envisaged as two separate
components proceeding side by side, even though the FRP also included
provisions for improving YGEC's billing and collection. In fact a single
contract was awarded for both tasks. Overall, much more emphasis was placed
on computerization rather than on the other elements of the FRP which included
a series of measures encompassing all managerial aspects, and the timely
planning and implementation of adequate tariff adjustments.
V. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
3.01        This Project is comprised of several components which are related
but completely independent of each other. The need for each element was
understood by all concerned parties, and the magnitude and extent of the com-
ponents were chosen as appropriate for completion in the time frame and budget
that was available. However, in retrospect the size of the software component
(studies, training and technical assistance for the FRP) could have been
reduced in light of YGEC's implementation capacity.
5.02        The need for construction standards was evident in view of the
poor technical standards which the private sector used in the construction of
their electrical facilities. Adequate funds (US$85,000) were made available
under the Credit to the Ministry of Electricity and Water (MEW) so as to



- 6 -
enable the retention of consultants to prepare these standards. However, the
study has not yet been carried out (para 4.06). The scope of the study will
also need to be modified to take account of the unification of YAR and PDRY.
5.03        In view of the fact that only 33 percent of the population had
access to electricity in 1983, and that there was a surplus of generating
capacity in the grid, there was an urgent need to distribute this excess
capacity to the potential consumers. The Bank support of the Project,
together with that of the Islamic Development Bank (IDB), has allowed these
demands to be satisfied. Many of the small villages would never have been
served without the Bank's involvement.
5.04        In spite of the delay in completion of the Project, its
developmental objectives of supplying electricity to thousands of new
consumers have been realized within the budget available. In addition, the
provision of excess transformer capacity included in this Project will enable
YGEC to increase service to many new consumers, at minimum additional costs.
VI.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
PROJECT COST
6.01        The total cost of the Project was US$33.0 million, about US$9.9
million less than the US$42.9 million estimated at appraisal. Although the
foreign cost was about US$0.2 million above the estimate, the local cost was
US$10.1 million lower than forecast.  Table 5 gives details of project costs
by component.
Distribution Components
6.02        The foreign cost of the materials and equipment for these
components was above the estimate by about US$1.2 million, because more work
was carried out over a much wider area, resulting in the provision of service
to 172 more rural consumers, and the improved service to 2,225 more urban
consumers than forecast. The Project also increased the capability of the
system to be expanded in the future to serve additional consumers at minimum
additional costs. The foreign cost was also higher for the engineering of the
rural component, because of the underestimation of the volume of work involved
in the analysis of the many bids for the 13 supply contracts. This was not
the case for the urban work, where the supply of material was the
responsibility of the contractor. In addition, the significant increase in
the foreign cost of construction supervision is reasonable in view of the
extended time required to complete the work.
6.03        The large underrun in local cost (87X) was due to the decision by
the contractor to utilize less local facilities and labor than was assumed at
the time of appraisal, minimum local charges for engineering, and none for
construction supervision. A contributing factor to the underrun are the
difficulties encountered by YGEC in separately identifying project costs from
the rest of its operations.



-7-
Technical Assistance
6.04        There was a 68.5 percent overrun in this component (US$3.4 million
expected at appraisal, US$5.1 million actual), mainly because of the increased
allocation for the training component (paras 8.12-8.15), and the overrun in
the cost of the FRP due to increased scope of work for computerization and
systems development (para 7.04 (iii) & (iv)), and the need to hire two
substation trainer/advisors, and two metering technicians, that were not
included in the original scope of work. These cost increases partly
contributed to the lack of financing for the three studies which were
originally intended for IDA financing (para 4.06).
PROJECT FINANCING
6.05        Table 6 gives details of Project local and foreign financing, and
Table 7 gives detail of withdrawal of credit proceeds.
Foreign Costs Financing
6.06        As a result of the gradual appreciation of the Dollar over the
SDR' during the Project period, the US dollar equivalent of the total
disbursements of SDR 17.11 (as of October 22, 1991) was about US$21.77
million. The value of the undisbursed SDRs (0.395 million) was equal to about
US$0.536 million.2  Thus, when the Credit is fully disbursed, total
disbursements would amount to approximately US$22.31 million. The
contribution of the IDB (Dinar 8.0 million), was adequate to cover the costs
of the component (US$9.12 million) funded by IDB. At the time of appraisal,
the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD) provided the
equivalent of US$0.5 million, to be used for training, but these funds were
never drawn. As part of the Credit Agreement, the Government was to provide
all of the necessary foreign funds needed to complete the Project, estimated
at that time to be US$2.9 million. However, as a result of the US$3.3 million
increase in funds available from the Credit because of the appreciation of the
US dollar against the SDR, the foreign funds supplied by the Government are
now only about US$0.17 million.
Local Costs Financing
6.07        The estimated local cost of the Project of US$11.5 million
equivalent was to be borne entirely by the Government (US$9.5 million) and by
YGEC (US$2.0 million). However, as a result of the substitution of local with
foreign costs under the construction contracts, engineering and construction
supervision, the amount required from the Government has been reduced to the
equivalent of only US$1.39 million, and the amount from YGEC has been reduced
to zero.
1/From one SDR equal to US$1.086 in 1983 to approximately US$1.317 on June 28,
1991 (closing date) and US$1.358 in October 1991.
2/ The remaining undisbursed amount is expected to be fully disbursed by
October 31, 1991 when the Credit Account will be closed.



- 8-
VII. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
7.01        Table 4 gives the scheduled and the actual completion dates of the
project components. At appraisal the project was expected to be implemented
over a 3 1/2 year period (1983-1986). In fact implementation began in April
1983 and ended in May 1991. The main reasons for the delays are given below.
7.02        Rural Distribution.  The main cause for the delays in this
component was due to the supply of unacceptable material by one of the
suppliers which required re-ordering, resulting in a cessation of work. The
changes in the areas to be served resulted in an underestimation of the
materials required and delays waiting for the delivery of additional material.
According to YGEC, the contractor was also at fault because he did not plan
the work properly and did not have sufficient staff to carry out the program.
7.03        Urban Distribution.  The significant delay in the completion of
this component of the Project was due initially to the Government which did
not approve the contract. Upon eventual approval, the elapsed time was so
great that the contractor refused to accept the contract at the original
price, and after considerable negotiation the contractor started work 3 years
after tender submission. Additional delays were caused by the lack of proper
planning by the contractor, who required 30 months to complete the work which
was scheduled for 18 months in the contract. Part of the difficulties can
also be attributed to the fact that the contractor may have underbid, and he
tried to save costs, because his tender price was 67 percent of the next
lowest bid. In some cases, he neglected to order required materials, and
their late delivery caused further delay.
7.04        Technical Assiocance Component.  This component also suffered
major delays. The FRP was expected to be conducted over a 3-year period 1983-
1986, and the computerization of accounting and billing from 1983-1985. In
fact the single contract for these components was awarded in 1984 and
concluded in January 1991, about 5 five years behind schedule. The main
reasons for the delay and the longer implementation period were:
(i) the consultants were sidetracked from their original task to
help YGEC in the accounting area and specifically with the audit
review for 1982 to 1984;
(ii) in 1985 there was some friction between YGEC management on
the one hand, and certain key Electricity Supply Board (ESB) staff
on the other, which resulted in the replacement of these two team
members;
(iii) the contract assumed a greater stage of preparatory work for
computerized billing was complete when in fact it was not, and
thus a considerable amount of consultant time was taken up with
hardware and staff selection, collecting basic data, testing of
billing programs etc.; and



(iv) it was assumed that the accounting utility systems developed
ten years earlier by Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co. (PMM) were to
be implemented. The consultants found those were no longer
adequate for YGEC's needs and ESB had to amend the programs.
7.05        The two previous Projects (Credit 837-YAR and Credit 1102-YAR)
were completed with delays of 30 and 16 months respectively. It is evident
that substantial strengthening of YGEC project implementation capacity and
that of concerned Government agencies is required, and components for this
purpose should be considered under future projects.
VIII. PROJECT RESULTS
A. GENERAL
8.01        The specific objectives of providing electrical service to 15,500
new consumers in predominantly rural areas, and upgrading the service to 4,500
existing consumers, has been achieved, at a cost about 8 percent less than
originally estimated. It is significant to note that a greater length of sub-
transmission line has been erected, and a much greater transformer capacity
has been installed, which will allow YGEC to extend service to many more new
consumers at minimum additional costs.
B. INSTITUTICNAL PERFORMANCE
8.02        The main thrust of this Credit, besides the development of the
distribution system, was the institutional building and manpower development
of YGEC.  These aspects were also addressed by previous IDA credits.
Considering that IDA's involvement started in 1975 when YGEC was only one year
old, and considering that the labor force is drawn from a population pool
which is still characterized by low levels of education and training, it is
clear that YGEC has come a long way in a short period.  With the help of
previous IDA credits and other lending and aid agencies, a system planning
department and a distribution department have been established and steps taken
to improve project identification and preparation work; a utility accounting
system has been established; bidding procedures have been set up; and an
inventory control and stores management system have also been established.
Inspite of these advances however, much needs to be done to help YGEC to
strengthen its capacity to systematically plan and manage its operations in a
financially viable manner.
8.03        Although some of the factors influencing YGEC's present financial
position are effectively outside its control (e.g. tariff, fuel prices etc.)
it is possible for YGEC to achieve some progress towards lowering costs and
improving its earnings by identifying the causes of its difficulties and
taking appropriate corrective measures. YGEC's critical financial situation
results as much from insufficient revenues as from high operating costs caused
by heavy reliance on expatriate staff and consultants (about 5-6 percent of
total wages bill for professional and technical staff), inadequate cost
management, high system losses and underutilization of generation capacity,
lack of qualified staff, and a weak organization structure.



. 10
8.04        YGEC's operations are conducted through 12 regions and 38 branch
offices.  The regional managers who are memd-rs of the Management Committee
report to the Managing Director, while the branch offices report to the
regional managers. Although each region has its own technical,
administrative, accounting, billing, and purchasing department, all regions
depend on the head office for support in system planning, project preparation,
and procurement of equipment and materials. Branch offices, on the other
hand, depend on the regions for support in construction and supply of
materials, and major maintenance of facilities. The existing organization
structure needs to be restructured in line with YGEC's needs to serve its
rapidly increasing consumers more efficiently and to manage its large
investment program. The FRP was to look at restructuring of YGEC's
organization, and a Report on Organization Structure was prepared by the ESB
which led to creating four branches in Sana'a.
8.05        Currently YGEC has a total of  4,218 employees.  Of these  1,514
are technical/professional staff, 914 administrative, 312 accounting, 1,612
unskilled and 316 other staff. This corresponds to a manning level of about
61 customers/employee which is below the average for most other third world
countries which is closer to 90 customers/employee. Thus, high labor costs
attributable to excessive manning levels contribute to YGEC's poor financial
performance. Efficiency gains could be realized through extension of
computerization to more functions in addition to billing and salaries, where
great improvements have been made.
8.06        A Manpower, Education and Training Committee was established in
May 1991. Its main purpose is to direct and coordinate a review of manpower
and skills requirements within the organization, with a view to making
recommendations to the Managing Director to improve YGEC's labor productivity.
Although the FRP was partly successful in addressing these and other problems,
more success in line with appraisal expectations could have been achieved with
better supervision of consultants and prioritization of requirements by YGEC.
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Financial Recovery Plan
8.07        Under this component, project management consultants were to be
hired to design and implement the FRP in two phases. The first phase of
(1983-1986) was to be implemented under this Credit at an estimated cost of
about US$1.1 million. The second phase was to be undertaken under the Fourth
Power Project (1702-YAR).
8.08        As originally envisaged, the first phase  would consist of a
series of measures encompassing all managerial aspects (planning, personnel
and finance), including a comprehensive training program, and the timely
planning and implementation of adequate tariff adjustments. YGEC was expected
to take all necessary measures to be designed by the consultants to enable
YGEC by FY85 to fully cover from revenues its operating costs, and as
intermediate target to cover by 90 percent of its costs by 1984.



- 11 -
8.09        As mentioned in para 4.07, one contract was awarded for the FRP
and for the computerization of accounting and billing. The main success of
this combined component were in the computerization area where computerized
billing was completed for 272,291 customers out of a total of 278,221
customers; a payroll/personnel system was installed in early 1990 giving
salary breakdown by Region, Branch and Department; job costing was introduced
in 4 Sana'a Regions, and assistance given to YGEC's Computer Manager in both
1989 and 1990 to establish computer hardware needs over the next two to five
years. Another area of success was on-the-job-training (para 8.15).
8.10        The achievements in other areas, such as planning (specifically in
preparation of investment program, and prioritization of projects) and
personnel management (organization and management structure) did not
completely achieve the expected results. The reasons for this were mainly
outside ESB's control. First, the original TORs were already quite ambitious,
and additional tasks (see above) were required by YGEC, and second, the
political climate in Yemen makes implementation of certain critical measures
(such as tariffs) quite difficult. Because of these constraints the FRP was
not fully effective in helping YGEC achieve its financial objectives.
Txaining
8.11        The Credit provided for on-the-job training of YGEC staff under
varieus contracts. Another US$0.5 million under the project was to be
provided by various AFESD loans for academic training abroad. However, as the
resources from the AFESD did not materialize the Association's allocation for
on-the-job training (about US$ 1.6 million) was utilized for academic training
abroad.
Academic Training
8.12        Two training agencies - The British Council, UK, and AMIDEAST,
USA - managed the training for YGEC staff. In the period 1984-1986, 34
trainees attended electrical engineering courses in the UK (length of stay
ranged from 5-7 years), and three came to the US for training (length of stay
2-4 years) in business and computer engineering. Out of these 37 trainees
about 10 dropped out after the start of the training.
8.13        Overall the Association was not satisfied with the way in which
the training was managed, and expressed its concern to YGEC on several
occasions. The Association felt that: (a) there was inadequate monitoring by
YGEC of the performance of the students; (b) some of the students changed
their subjects without prior approval from YGEC; (c) no action was taken to
correct poor performance of some of the students; and (d) poor matching of
individual student aptitudes to the field and level of studies pursued.
8.14        A manpower, education and training advisor funded by Overseas
Development Agency (ODA), UK arrived in YGEC in October 1989 to review the
issue of performance of the students and their placement in YGEC upon their
return. He indicated that the issues mentioned in para 8.13 above are being
looked into more closely, and an effort is being made to match the skills
required in YGEC with the training undertaken.



_ 12 _
On-the-job-training
8.15        On-the-job-training was to assist YGEC to improve efficiency of
its operation and maintenance activities and to reduce operating expenses.
The bulk of this training took place under the FRP contract. The training was
very satisfactorily implemented in the areas of computerization of billing,
substation maintenance and meter inspection work.
D. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
8.16        YGEC's financial performance during the period 1983 through 1990
is reflected in detailed financial statements in Tables 14, 15, 16 and 17.
The principal features, trends and causes of YGEC's poor financial performance
are s-mmarized below.
8.17        Table 17 utilizes three key profitability indicators to summarize
YGEC's financial performance during 1983 through 1990; the net profit margin
(NPM), the net profit before interest as a percentage of income (NPBI), and
the rate of return on reva'lued assets. The NPM is used to capture the
operational efficiency of YGEC's investment, production, procurement, pricing
and financing decisions in one measure.   The NPBI is used to assess the
operational efficiency of all the above decisions with the exception of the
financing decision. The rate of return (ROR) is used to measure the
efficiency of assets utilization and to supplement the NPBI.
8.18        Figures 1 and 2 below and the ratios in Table 17 show a remarkable
decline in YGEC's financial position since 1983. Further, the ratios indicate
an enormous discrepancy between anticipated results at the time of appraisal
and the actual results. This discrepancy is attributable to optimistic
expectations regarding sales growth, understatement of expenses and
expectations about price increases which did not materialize. These
differences between forecasted sales, revenues and operating expenses and
actual results are shown in Table 17.



- 13 -
Yen G.neral Electricity Co roration
Financial Performance Analysis Gravha (1983-1990)
Profte  I ta     Ity Indicators
CiS83-19010                                                                    Sales, Revenues and Expenses
O ¢06 "@-"**~~~~~. ........_ . 1,00
( X1_,\...... H.........  ..7   D
U (1/ \ / \ \ g3_ ;g                                ......._
@  (3()   _--------*--/-------------St------------------------------%------ ..   GO   _  ;/,7....................................-.OD.,,.
9                 0 . .........................
(20)                      .. t14_........... 
I s s | '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ................. ....................   ;.'.......                                _    4
a   41 ...... %,, ....... Vs .....................                                             t9"                                                             ..4
c6o.
_ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
Fi 0ure 1                                                                         Figure.2
...............                 ..   ...........     o
(4 )                       ............................. ..
400        . ........  ...  ................ '
(58;)                        I             I             I                                    300                                                  3i
-                     - --    -    1      t-I    on    1M --9
,~ -m  i,  .e  tea                      S         Hii .. ji i~             i            .            i           .           i           ,
Mti         (6.4) 13-) :U.9) 0h1     (1.0)  (2.0        (-5) 0 1.3 )                                     1903 1904 1905 1906 198? 1986 19819 1990
-  -    13.0) (3.1) ~.0I (t)  19.1.1  35.43   0.1)Year
n*asu~ ~~~~~~~~~SOSW  WVnU OP Vreor
in    ...  8)  (6.4)                                                                   Fiu) M)  4C '    b)                                 ........
Figure 1                                                                                         Figure 2
Electricity  Tariffs  and  Inflation                                                                                Stntuts of' Fb1vables
C1993-1990)                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~AS at FFSCal Year EnlO
1.1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  10 ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I    ....
M3 11   15   g        18IM    M 110
.erI.291                                                                                                          95   96lw         t    M l
~~~                                            morn..~~~~~~~~~~~Ya
Fiue -igr  



_ 14 -
8.19        Actual sales ranged from 63 to 79 percent of Power III appraisal
estimates and from 66 to 91 percent of Power IV appraisal estimates.
Projected revenues were also below estimates for most of the years, but even
when they marginally exceeded estimates, the operating expenses were
proportionately higher than the revenue increases. The principal reasons for
lower sales and revenues and for higher operating expenses were: (i) slower
rate of distribution investments needed to utilize available excess generation
capacity and especially the slower rate of connection of industrial consumers;
(ii) rapid devaluation of the Yemen Rial from US$1 - YR 4.52 at the time of
appraisal to US$1 - YR 12.0 in 1991 and resultant increase in the local
currency costs of imported fuel and debt service; and (iii) the requirement,
up to 1987, for YGEC to purchase heavy fuel oil from the national oil company
at prices substantially above the international levels. The trend of these
ratios gives a clear indication of the substantial decline in YGEC's financial
position.
8.20        The Bank endeavored to focus the Government and YGEC's attention
on the crit4.cal need to improve YGEZ's financial viability. The Bank's
monitoring of YGEC's financial performance was centered on three key
performance measures which had been agreed and incorporated in the Credit and
Project Agreements.   These measures were (i) operating ratios of 90 percent
in 1984, 100 percent in 1985 followed by rates of return on revalued assets of
a least 3 percent in 1986-1988, 5 percent in 1989, 6 percent in 1990 and 8
percent in 1991; (ii) debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5; and (iii)
maintenance of accounts receivable at levels of no more than sixty days.
These targets established under this project were also maintained under the
Fourth Power Project (Credit 1701-YAR) which is under implementation.
8.21              During 1986-1988, after YGEC's operating ratio had been only
80 percent and 88 percent in 1984 and 1985 respectively and its rate of return
for 1986 was only -4.6 percent, the Bank withheld its commitment to reimburse
under a letter of credit until the Government/YGEC had produced a clear plan
of action for addressing YGEC's financial problems. In response, the
Government proposed a Financial Action Plan (FAP) whose principal elements
were: (i) reduction to international levels of the prices of heavy fuel oil
charged to YGEC retrospectively from January 1987; (ii) allowing YGEC to
purchase diesel oil free of duty; (iii) adequate Government provision of funds
to enable Government departments and public sector companies to settle bills
for electricity within 60 days of billing; and (iv) specific annual increases
in monthly service charges during 1988 through 1990. These measures were
considered by the Bank to be the minimum necessary to restore YGEC's financial
viability. On the understanding that the FAP would be duly implemented the
Bank agreed to a downward revision of financial covenants and accordingly
amended the Credit and Development Agreements       (May 18, 1988).  The revised
financial covenants required YGEC to achieve rates of return on revalued
assets of 3 percent in 1989 and 1990, and 5 percent from 1991 onwards.
8.22        However, YGEC only implemented the FAP in part and in particular
did not implement the specific annual increases in monthly service charges.
As a result its rates of return on revalued assets were only -0.8 percent,
-3.4 percent and -6.9 percent in 1988, 1989 and 1990 respectively.



- 15 -
YGEC's Accounts Receivable
8.23        The accounts receivable remained well above the agreed average 60
days from billing date as shown in Figure 3 above. The major reasons for the
large receivables were:
(i) manual preparation of electricity bills until 1990 when
computerization of billing system was completed, and poor collection
performance;
(ii) substantial arrears from Government and public sector consumers due
to inadequate budgetary provisions and cumbersome procedures for
approval of bills even though the government had agreed under YGECs 1987
FAP to have its bills settled promptly; and
(iii) the reluctance of many agencies to pay the capacity charges of
their bill and YGECs inability to enforce full settlement of bills.
Debt Service Coverage
8.24        Under this Credit YGEC was required to obtain the Association's
prior approval for any new long-term borrowing unless the net revenue for each
year during the term of the debt (before depreciation and interest) was at
least equal to 1.5 times the projected debt service requirement for such year,
on all its debt, including the debt to be incurred. Since the commissioning
of the Al Mukha power station in 1987, no major debt has been incurred, even
though the cash generation ratio was on niany occasions lower than 1.5 percent.
Tariffs
8.25        No significant change has occurred in YGEC's tariff level and
structure since 1981 (Figure 3). Almost all customer categories in either
urban or rural areas are charged a uniform tariff irrespective of the kWhs
consumed. The urban tariff remains at YR 1.10/kWh and the rural at YR
1.5/kWh. In 1988 service charges for commercial consumers were reduced from
YR 100/month to YR 50/month for single phase consumers, and from YR 200 to
100/month for three phase consumers. These reductions were in response to
persistent complaints from small workshops, where in certain cases the charges
exceeded the actual bill. In September 1985 and April 1991, however, the
following increases in connection charges were approved by Government:
Prior      In Sept.   In April
to 1985      1985        1991
--------------YR-------------
* Single Phase Domestic consumers :   1,230            2,000       4,000
* 3-Phase Domestic consumers       :   2,030           3,000       6,000
* For Remaining Non-Domestic       :   4,030           6,000      10,000
* For Large Consumers Using CTs   :    20,000             -       24,000
8.26        As indicated above, these increases were not adequate to enable
YGEC to meet its revenue requirements. With the objective of ensuring timely



- 16 -
increases in tariffs the Bank and the Government had agreed under the previous
Credit, 1102-YAR, that YGEC would automatically pass on to its customers all
increases in its fuel costs (fuel adjustment clause).   However, since the
Government (in 1981) decided to remove all petroleum subsidies at one stroke,
if the increase in costs were to be recovered by YGEC through tariff
increases, the rise in electricity tariffs would have been politically
unacceptable. Thus under the Third Power Project, the Association agreed to
relax the covenant, and agreed to an automatic fuel adjustment provision with
a proviso that it would be operative for fuel price changes from January
1,1985. However, the covenant was not implemented as the Council of Ministers
felt that an increase in tariffs, even in the form of a fuel adjustment was
not politically feasible, especially since YGEC was allowed (in 1987) to
purchase fuel at international prices which were on the decline, and which
were substantially lower that the prices previously charged by the Yemen Oil
and Mineral Resources Corporation (YOMINCO). The fuel adjustment clause was
thus deleted under the Fourth Power Project (Credit 1701-YAR) approved on May
15, 1986.
8.27        Prior to the substantial devaluation of the Rial in February 1991
and the adoption of the parallel foreign exchange markets for most
transactions, YGEC's average tariff was above the long-run marginal cost
although some consumers (e.g. large industries) enjoyed subsidies at the
expense of other consumers. With the devaluation of the Rial, the worsening
in YGEC's financial position, and the planned merger of YGEC with the Public
Corporation for Electric Power (currently serving the southern Governorates),
a tariff atudy is urgently required to provide a basis for determining tariffs
which reflect economic costs and enable the power subsector as a whole to meet
its revenue requirements. The Bank has agreed to finance the study under the
ongoing Fourtn Power Project.
E. AUDITS
8.28        Under this Credit YGEC was required to submit audited reports
within 6 months after the end of each fiscal year. YGEC has been unable to
comply with this covenant. A factor contributing to this non-compliance was
that the experienced expatriate financial manager and the internal auditor
returned to their homeland in 1983 and were replaced with local staff with
insufficient experience.
8.29        Furthermore, certain irregularities and misappropriation of funds
were discovered in 1983. The 1982 audit pointed out the irregularities, but
the major misappropriation were not discovered by the audit. This audit was
thus rejected by YGEC and the Government. A new firm of independent auditors
(Touche Rosse, Saba and Co.) were appointed to audit the accounts for 1982,
1983 and 1984. The auditors were assisted by consultants (ESB) who were
working on the FRP plan at that time. The audit of the 1982 and 1983 accounts
was completed in May 1985 and the auditors gave only qualified statements for
these audits. The audit for 1984 was completed in March 1986 and restated the
accounts for 1982 and 1983, but due to the poor accounting practices and lack
of accounting controls, continued to carry qualifications. The 1985/86 audits
were received over a year late. Starting with the 1987 accounts there has
been some improvement in timeliness of reports, although delays of between
6-8 months have been experienced.



- 17 -
8.30        The 1989 audit, received by the Bank in January 1991, has also
been qualified by the auditors. The main problems perceived related to
verification of accounts receivable and long-term loans (including interest
liabilities on these loans). At IDA's request, YGEC and its auditors are
currently reviewing the 1989 accounts and a supplementary auditors' report is
expected shortly.
8.31        The Bank has taken some initiatives to assist YGEC and its
auditors in improving the timeliness of audit reporting. For example,
supervision missions have recommended early appointment of auditors so as to
enable them to carry out interim audits, spread out audit work throughout the
year, and identify any problems in accounting procedures and system controls
at an early stage. The practice of appointing auditors prior to the start of
the year for which the audit has to be conducted has not been followed by YGEC
consistently, but has been effective whenever it has been carried out.
8.32        As of September 15, 1991 the audited financial statements which
were due in the Bank by June 30, 1991 have not yet been received. Recently
the Bank has agreed with the Government and the Central Organization for
Control and Auditing (COCA) that the latter would carry out a review of
accounting and auditing practices in the country with a view to laying the
basis for measures to improve the availability of skills and the adoption of
international accounting/auditing practices.
Economic Rate of Return
8.33        The incremental economic rate of return (IERR) has been calculated
for YGEC's investment program for the period 1983-90, the same period in which
the project was implemented. The investment approach to calculating the IERR
was adopted instead of the project approach, which was used at appraisal (see
Table 9 for details), to avoid the difficulties of separately identifying and
attributing to the project specific incremental benefits. Since this is a
typical problem for such power distribution projects, the investment approach
is being increasingly adopted in the Bank for economic evaluation of projects.
8.34        Because the IERR is calculated on the investment program for 1983-
90, the resulting IERR of 11 percent is not directly comparable to the 18
percent estimated for the project at appraisal. However, the program's IERR
is adequate when compared to the economic cost of capital of about 10 percent
for the country. Further, it is substantially above YGEC's financial cost of
capital of about 7 percent, thus confirming the project's positive
contribution towards improving YGEC's financial performance. The principal
assumptions used in calculating the IERR sre summarized in Table 9.
8.35        Although the program's IERR is not directly comparable to the
appraisal estimate of the Project's IERR, given that the Project is typical of
the bulk of the projects in the program, its IERR would be expected to be
close to the program's IERR. The difference between the program and the
project's estimated IERR, therefore, requires some explanations. First, the
appraisal estimates assumed real tariff increases of about 2 percent per
annum. In actuality, no increases, even in nominal terms, have taken place
since 1981. Second, the incremental sales assumed at appraisal were based on



- 18 -
optimistic assumptions of increases in per capita consumption - about 4
percent per annum to year 2007 for urban consumers and to year 1996 for rural
consumers. The increases in per capita consumption have been much lower at
about 2 percent per annum for all categories of consumers. Third, substantial
delays in consumer consumption have meant deferment of incremental benefits
and, therefore, reduction in the present value of incremental benefits.
8.36        In addition to the above factors, which explain the difference
between the appraisal estimate of the project's IERR and the re-estimated IERR
for YGEC's investment program for 1983-90, the program's relatively low return
is also explained by the imbalance between generation assets on one hand and
transmission and distribution assets on the other hand. This imbalance means
that, whereas substantial resources have been committed in generation assets,
recovery of these costs is hindered by inadequate distribution assets. This
position is expected to improve with the commissioning of new distribution
assets such that by 1993 new generation capacity would be required.
8.37        Overall, the program's IERR was adequate to cover the opportunity
cost of capital. However, higher levels of return could have occurred with
timely adjustment of tariffs to compensate for inflation and with speedier
implementation of the program.
IX. SUSTAINABILITY
9.01        The various physical elements of the Project have been
manufactured to high standards, and have been installed and erected by
competenlt workmen under proper supervision.  No unusual failures for such
works are expected. Thus, in general, the facilities are expected to fulfil
their anticipated function with a minimum of interruption throughout the
expected life of the Project (30 years) provided that the required maintenance
and repair tasks are properly carried out. For two years after taking over
the contractor will repair defects in material or workmanship.
9.02        The issue of YGEC's financial performance is being addressed under
the ongoing Fourth Power Project through the proposed tariff study which is
expected to lay the basis for tariff policy for the unified Yemen (Table 10).
However, even though some of the factors influencing YGEC's present financial
position are effectively outside its control (e.g. tariff, fuel prices etc.),
YGEC's critical financial situation results as much from insufficient revenues
as from high operating costs (para 8.03). The institutional building and
manpower development of YGEC, was an important aspect of this Credit, the
previous two IDA credits, and the the ongoing Fourth Power Project. However,
much still needs to be done to help YGEC to strengthen its capacity to
systematically plan and manage its operations in a financially viable manner.



- 19 -
X. BANK PERFORMANCE
10.01       Bank supervision was, on the whole, satisfactory, and missions
were mounted at appropriate intervals (about 6 months) except during the
period November 1988 to June 1991, where missions were mounted at intervals
between 9 months to one year. Part of this lag was of course attributable to
the ban on travel necessitated by the Gulf Crisis. In retrospect, however, it
could be said that because of major problems with procurement and financial
performance of YGEC, in the early stages of project implementation the Bank
did not devote sufficient attention to the project's software components, i.e.
training and studies. Thus, YGEC was able to send substantial numbers of its
employees for overseas training under Bank financing although the financing
had been expressly provided for local-on-the job training. The Bank's failure
to detect this change in project design and objectives was attributable to its
corcentration on the hardware aspects of the project which were encountering
difficulties. Similarly the Bank was slow in pressing for implementation of
the studies. The experience in this regard suggests that when borrower
implementation capacity is limited both the Bank and the Borrower may tend to
give priority to the hardware aspects and allow the software components to
suffer.
10.02       Many of the problems which occurred on this Project originated
with the general lack of appropriate action by the Government, in not
approving contracts, and the issuing of Letters of Credit in a timely manner.
During the course of the work, Bank staff cooperated fully with the Government
and YGEC, so as to achieve a successful completion.
XII. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
11.01       As mentioned above, the initial phases of the Project were delayed
to a considerable extent by the failure of the Government to take appropriate
actions, and this caused the Bank problems and resulted in the four extensions
of the closing date (Table 2), and protracted negotiations over contract
price. There appeared to be a certain lack of desire on the part of the
Government to proceed with the Project in the initial phase, but this
disappeared once the project was underway.
11.02       Problems with consultants could have been avoided if YGEC had
undertaken stricter supervision of the consultants.
XII. CONSULTANTS AND CONTRACTORS' PERFORMANCE
12.01       Three separate consulting engineering firms were retained for this
Project, one each for the engineering design and preparation of contract
documents for the rural component and the urban component, and another for the
supervision of construction.



- 20 -
12.02       The engineer for the rural component preformed his work in a
satisfactory manner, and although there was some criticism that the bulk
materials ordered may not have been the precise requirements for the eventual
construction, this may be explained by the fact that due to the time
difference between the initial report and the actual construction, YGEC
completed some faciLities, and villages not in the original program, were
added. The technical competence of the engineer for the rural component was
satisfactory.
12.03       The technical performance of the engineer for the urban component
was also satisfactory, although during the implementation, it was found that
the terms of payment for bid items in the contract were overly complicated.
The payment for materials and work in 6 stages, with different percentages for
local and foreign payments, resulted in a considerable amount of paperwork
during the construction supervision stage.
12.04       The two distribution projects were carried out in a different
manner. In the rural component, all the material was purchased by YGEC
separately, and a contract was awarded for the construction and installation
of equipment. This led to higher engineering cos-s because of the time taken
to analyze the bids for materials, but it enabled YGEC to select and
standardize equipment, and allowed for flexibility in the location of
facilities in the field. This procedure also required a higher degree of
field supervision. The urban component was bid on a supply and construct
contract which required less detailed engineering, since the onus for material
supply was given to the contractor. The engineering costs for supervision
were also lower, but this was primarily due to the fact that the sites for the
work were more concentrated than for the Rural work.
12.05       In the Bank staffs' opinion, the consultants for the FRP were
satisfactory. However, YGEC management have expressed the view that the
consultants were not successful in helping YGEC to achieve the financial
covenants under the Credit. As indicated earlier (para 8.10) YGEC's failure
to achieve the financial covenants were due to factors outside the consultants
control.



PR  II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BENEFICIARY'S PERSPECTIVE
PREPARED BY YGEC
A. Operations
The project was specifically aimed at meeting some of the demand
for electricity in rural areas, fol'.owing upon the rehabilitation program of
Sana'a, Hodeidah, and Taiz.
The project was a continuation of the effort initiated under
Credits 837-YAR and 1102-YAR and was aimed at implementing a second tranche of
the National Electrification Program. It was to extend electricity service to
the beneficiaries by:
(i) connecting the areas at Bani Hushaysh, Arhab, Al Misrakh,
Badan and Al Marawiah to the main grid; and
(ii) reinforcing, rehabilitating and expanding the distribution
networks in the cities of Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah.
B. Imolementation
The project was expected to be implemented ove. four years (1983-
1986), but actual implementation took 8 1/2 years (1983-1991). The reasons
are as follows:
(i) YEM 200 contract was tendered in 1985 and signed by Hyundai
and YGEC on February 1986;
(ii) YEM 200 contract was not ratified by the Council of Ministers
until September 20, 1986. This delay caused problems with the
financing by IDA and the contractor refused to accept the contract
at the original price;
(iii) YEM 127 contract was signed by Hyundai and YGEC on June 5,
1985;
(iv) Failure of one of the YGEC supply contracts (YEM 121B and YEN
122B) to supply suitable equipment; and
(v) Hyundai's project management for this project has been
inadequate, due to a lack of experienced managerial and
engineering staff.
The basic aims of the Rural and Urban electrification project have
been met. The Rural project included the provision of 33 kV circuits to
strategically located new 33/11 kV substations and provision of a basic
distribution network capable of being expanded in the future and which will
enable YGEC to connect many additional consumers in addition to the 15,500



- 22 -
consumers connected under this project. The Urban project has provided new
33/11 kV transformer capacity in the three cities, and new 11 kV networks
which will enable increasing load growth to be handled. Many inadequate
distribution networks have been rebuilt and the benefits have also been passed
on to adjacent networks through load relief.
C. Performance of Contractors
For material supply contract, with the exception of Star Iron,
performance was generally satisfactory. The performance by Star Iron was
extremely poor and caused many problems, delays and additional costs to the
project.
For the construction of Rural Electrification, Hyundai's
performance has been generally poor. Hyundai was delayed by material
shortages, but they did cooperate with YGEC to overcome many of the material
supply problems. However, management was poor, considerable time was wasted
as they did not concentrate on the work for which materials were available and
they underestimated t' .- work to be done and difficulties in the mountainous
areas of Badan and Al Misrakh. Their engineering staff was inexperienced in
the type of work, and the moral of their workforce was generally low.
For construction of the Urban Electrification, the complete scope
of work (supply of materials and installation) was Hyundai's responsibility.
Hyundai's performance suffered from poor management, (who seemed unable to
appreciate the amount of work involved), inexperienced engineers for design
and supervision work and for materials purchasing and an understaffed and
poorly equipped workforce.
D. Bank's Performance
The Bank has been very understanding of YGEC's problems for the
implementation of this project. The finance period was extended to cover the
delays in awarding the Urban Electrification project and subsequent delays due
to slow rate of progress by the Contractor. Additional finance was provided
for the supply of extra materials for the Rural Electrification and approval
for this was granted reasonably. IDA staff have been helpful to YGEC through
the project period.
E. Borrower's Performance
The problems YGEC faced in implementing the project were:
(i) To secure wayleaves for power lines in advance of construction
program;
(ii) Some delays in importing of materials due to lengthy custom
procedures (Ministry of Planning should examine how these
activities may be improved); and
(iii) Concerning the technical assistance, YGEC and the consultant
found that Hyundai are not qualified to do the training courses
(on-the-job); therefore, this was cancelled.



- 23 -
F. Bank/Borrower Relationship
During the evolution and implementation of this project, YGEC has
found the Bank's staff to be most helpful and understanding of the problems
experienced by YGEC.
G.  Cofinancies
The Islamic Development Bank (IDB) was the cofinanciers for this
project. Cooperation between YGEC and IDB has generally been good and IDB has
granted extension of time and have funded additional materials. Approval
procedures for the funding of additional materials took considerable time to
finalize. Towards the end of the project, due to circumstances beyond YCEC's
contract, IDB ceased making further disbursements. YGEC/Government have to
find alternative funding to meet commitments for materials already installed
and work already completed.
H.  Performance of Consultants Electricity Supply Board of Ireland (ESB Qfor
Financial Recovery Plan
In 1984 ESB started the services for the FRP which were to cover
the finance system, computerization of billing, management of regions,
training, planning, commercial etc. The services were to take three years
only, and the consultant was obliged to assist YGEC to achieve the following
operating ratios: FY84: 90 percent, FY85: 100 percent. These ratios have not
been met, and YGEC has not gained maximum benefits from the FRP.
However, in the field of computerization YGEC has achieved a great
deal. ESB have played a very clear role by coordinating between YGEC computer
management and the users.
ESB stated that in 1985 they had been instructed by YGEC to
concentrate on the financial and computerization sides. Since then, ESB has
signed agreements with YGEC for extensions and additional services increasing
the cost of the services to about US$3 million, which is approximately three
times the original price.
YGEC believes that ESB could have been of greater help had they
concentrated on commercial, financial and regional matters such matters that
relate directly to the targets set for the FRP services.
Instead, commercial aspects have not been covered in detail. ESB
claims that there was an ODA Commercial Advisor who was taking care of such
services.
Reports on regional management and planning, etc. have been
prepared, but implementation which was part of ESB's responsibility, was weak.



- 24 -
I. Performance of Consultants for Urban and Rural Components
a. NECA:   (i) They were responsible for design of Rural Contract YEM-
127. The main problem with NRECA was that they did not
base their design on geographic maps. For this reason some
villages were not included in their plan, even though they
were on the main routes and in the same areas as other
villages receiving electricity services. This caused major
problems for YGEC.
(ii) They approved the contractor Star Iron for supply of
hardware materials. This proved to be a poor choice
because the materials were of poor quality, which caused
delays due to need to replace materials.
b.  K L&D:  They were the consultants for design of Urban Contract
YEM-200. One problem was that they did not undertake an
adequate survey of overhead lines and underground cables
routes, and based quantities of materials upon estimates
which caused shortages.
c.  EPPWL:  They were the consultants for construction supervision of
the project. Their main problem was poor management on
site which effected the supervision of the work.
Furthermore, most of the time their working hours were
shorter than stipulated in their contract. They worked
only from 8:00 a.m. until 2:00 p.m. instead of 8:00 a.m.
until 5:00 p.m. which caused delays in project.
Also, their supervision of the contractor was not firm enough.
ENG: AHNAD HASSAN AL-AINI
ACT: 1tANAGING DIRECTOR
YGEC
nrX381



arFt III
STATISTICL INOQMAfTION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and Credits
satus :PPAR - January 6, 1988 (combined with Credit 1102-YAR)
Project:           Power Distribution Proiect - Credit 837-YAR
EX     :           FY79
wPurpose:          To rehabilitate, reinforce and expand the existing urban
distribution systems in the cities of Sana'a, Hodeidah and
Taiz. It also provided assistance to YGEC for training,
engineering and consultant services and studies to improve
the corporation's organization and make it a more effective
institution. Additional objectives were the development of
capable Yemeni staff to gradually take over from
expatriates in all sector activities and the development of
adequate tariffs and a tariff structure to reflect long run
marginal cost of supply.
Project:           Regional Electrification Project - Credit 1102-YAR
EX     :           FY81
Status             PPAR - January 6, 1988 (combined with Credit 837-YAR)
Pu_rose:           The project was intended to enable YGEC to increase its
sales y taking advantage of existing equipment that was
underutilized and to serve potential customers with a
relatively high demand who would otherwise generate their
own electricity at considerably higher cost. The project
was to smooth the transition from the existing system of
isolated generation to the inter-connected system. Another
objective was to continue the institutional building effort
initiated under Credit 837-YAR.
Project :          Fourth Power Project - Credit 1701-YAR
FY      :          FY86
Status  :         Under supervision
Purgose :          To assist YGEC in: (i) utilization of available generation
capacity by extending its services in urban and rural
areas; (ii) achieving fuel saving by operating its thermal
plants at higher efficiencies; and (iii) contributing to
institutional development by improving YGEC's managerial,
technical and financial capabilities.
Pr_oject           Energy/Power
EX      :          FY94
Status  :         Under Preparation
Purpose :          Rehabilitation and line loss reduction of networks in major
urban centers.



- 26 -
Table 2. Project Timetable
Original              Revised              Actual
Identification                                                                                  06/16/81
Preappraisal                                                                                    05/15/82
Preappraisal (follow-up)                                                                        08/18/82
Appraisal                                                                                        11/15/82
Negotiations                                                                                    03/28/83
Board Approval                                                                                  05/10/83
Credit Signature                                      05/17/83                                  05/17/83
Effectiveness /L                                      08/17/83             10/17/83             08/09/84
01/01/84
04/17/84
08/02/84
10/02/84
Closing /2                                            06/30/87             06/30/88             06/28/91
06/30/89
06/30/90
06/30/91
Completion                                            12/31/86                                  05/31/91
/1 Effectiveneps: First. second and third *xtensions were due to delays in: (a) in ratification of credit
documents; (b) in appointment of consultanta to assist YGEC in the formulation and implementation of a
financial recovery plan and computerization of its accounting and billing operations; (c) conclusion of a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and YGEC; and (d) conclusion of firm financing agreement
with Islamic Development Bank. The fourth extension was due to (d) above.
f2 Closin Dates:
First Extension: Disbursements were lagging behind due to substantial delays in opening letter of credit
for the major urban contract YEH-200. IDA was hesitant to approve extension pending a satisfactory action
plan to address YGEC's deteriorating financial situation. Extension was agreed on the basis the FhP agreed
between Govt. and YGEC in September 1987.
Second Extenaion: Continuing delays in opening letter of credit for contract YEH-200; and need to extend
the consultancy contract with ESB Ireland to allow continuation of balance of activities under the FRP.
Third Extenion: To allow YGEC to complete disbursements against the urban and rural components and to
aflow for completion of the three studies which had not yet started.
Fourth Extension: Bank agreed to fourth extension due to special circumstances created by the unification
of Yemen on May 22, 1990. This extension was conditional on an action plan to ensure that the remaining
project activities were expeditiously implemented and necessary actions taken to meet appropriate financial
targets.



- 27 _
Table 3.  Cumulat&ve Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
Sept.
As of June 30    1984  18   1986  I2I7  1988  1989  1M   1991  i1
Appraisal Estimate    1.26  8.20  15.20  19.00  19.00  19.00  19.00  19.00  19.00
Disbursement Profile    -    0.19  2.09  5.51  9.31  12.35  14.63  16.34  18.05
Acttal                  0.68  3.79  5.81  7.48  12.4  15.85  20.68  2¾.77 /1
................ ....................... ......
/1 About SOR 0.395 million or USSO.536 miLLion remining undisbursed as of October 22, 1991 Is expected to
be fully disbursed by October 31, 1991 when the Credit Account closes.
Table 4. Project Implementation
A.pDraisal Estimate            Actual Dates
Start       Finish          Start        Finish
A. Rural Distribution
Engineering Design             3/01/83       9/30/84        4/--/83       2/28/86
Material Specifications        3/01/83       7/31/83                     12/20/83
IDA Review of Bid Doc.         7/01/83      10/31/83       12/20/83       2/27/84
Call for Bids (Material)      10/01/83       1/31/84       12/--/83       4/08/84
Award Material Contract                      6/30/84        1/01/85       4/30/85
Delivery-Mat.& Equip.         10/01/84       3/31/85        1/10/86      10/31/88
Delivery Add'l Mat                                            10/88         10/90
Construction Supervision      10/01/84      12/31/86        3/01/86       7/31/91
Bids for Const. Contract      10/01/83      12/31/83       12/--/83       4/10/84
Award Const. Contract          3/01/84       5/31/84                      6/05/85
Mobilization                  11/01/84      12/31/84           1/86          2/86
Construction Period            1/01/85       9/30/86        6/30/86       5/31/91
B. Urban Distribution
Engineering                    3/01/83       9/30/84                      2/28/86
Mat. & Const. Doc.             3/01/83       7/31/83                      4/18/84
IDA Review of Bid Doc.         7/01/83      10/31/83        3/09/84       5/31/84
Construction Supervision      10/01/84      12/31/86        3/01/86       7/31/91
Bids for Sup.&Const.Cont      10/01/83      12/31/83       11/02/84       2/02/85
Award Sup.&Const. Cont.        3/01/84       5/31/84                      2/02/86
Renegotiated Contract                                                     2/29/88
Effective Cont. Date                                                     10/13/88
Mobilization                  11/01.84      12/31/84        5/--/88       6/--/88
Construction Period            1/01 85       9/30/86        6/30/88       5/31/91



- 28 -
Table 5. PROJECT COST
Appraisal Estimate               Estimated Cost
Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign   Total
-------------------US$ Thousands-------------------
Rural Electrification
Equipment & Materials                 -     5,986   5,986          -     6,884   6,884
Erection & Installation          2,630      3,080   5,710        590     4,752   5,342
Engineering                         33        136     169         12       611      623
Construction Supervision           235        455     690          -     1,237   1,237
Sub-total                2.898     9.657  12.5$5        602    13.484  14.086
Urban Electrification
Equipment & Materials                 -     7,500   7,500          -     7,857   7,857
Erection & Installation          3,000      4,500   7,500        729     2,751   3,480
Engineering                         45        188     233         19       129      148
Construction Supervision           225        415     640          -       982      982
Sub-total                3.270    12.603  15.873        748    11.719  12.467
Industrial Load Connections
Equipment & Materials                 -       700     700          -       610      610
Erection & Installation            150        250     400         43       100      143
Engineering                         10         30      40          -        10       10
Construction Supervision            20         40      60          -         7        7
Sub-total                  180     1.020   1.200         43        727     770
Distribution - Sub-total       6.348    23.280  29.628       1393    25.930  27.323
Technical Assistance
Instrumentation                     45        420     465          -        77       77
Accounting & Billing Computer*    230         650     880          -          -       -
Construction Standard Study         25         60      85          -        85       85
Load Research Study                 25         50      75          -       300      300
Expansion & Investment Study        56        162     218          -       218      218
Financial Recovery Plan            253        887   1,140          -     3,415   3,415
Training                              -       500     500          -     1,573   1,573
Technical Assistance Sub-total    634       2.729   3.363          -     5.668   5.668
Base Cost                        6,982    26,009  32,991       1,393    31,598  32,991
Contingencies
Physical                     635     2,329   2,964           -         -        -
Price                      1,169     3,015   4,184           -         -        -
Total Proiect Cost               8.786    31.353  40.139       1.393    31.598  32.991
Interest During Construction    2,744           -   2,744          -         -        -
Total Financing Required        11.530    31.353  42.883       1.393    31.598  32.991
* Included in Financial Recovery Plan



- 29 -
Table 6. Proiect Financing
ARpraisal Estimate                Actual Cost
Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign   Total
-------------------'US$ Thousands-------------------
IDA Credit                            -    19,000  19,000           -    22,308  22,308
Islamic Bank                          -     9,000   9,000           -     9,120   9,120
Existing Loans (AFESD)                -       500      500          -         -        -
Government                       9,5001     2,900  12,400      1,393        170   1,563
YGEC Onctuangcamuo cawuion)       2,000          -   2,000                     -       -
Total                   11,500    31,400  42,900       1,393    31,598  32,991
I Includes interest during construction.



- 30 -
Table 7. Wlthdraval of the Prooeeds of the Credit
For east             Pereant of             Actuall4               To be
Allocation           Rxpscditurea to        Disbursed (Sn)1        Disbursed
(CU)I                be Finined             (Oct. 22, 1991)       C(E)I
Catasory               (April, 1983)
(1)  Zqui .nt and                 9,633,000               100l                 8,573,476
Materials                                          (foreign)
(2)  Installation of              3,762,000                1001                2,415,301
Works                                              (foreign)
(3) Consultants'                    78.000                1OOS                 1,180,686             394,523
Services for Part
(a) of the Project
(4)  Other Consultants'
services.
(a) for Part B of            2,660,000               1001                 4,936,014
the Projeot  oxcept                                (foreign)
Part 8 (1) thereof
and for engineering
and construction
supervision
(b) for Part B (1)              69,000               100l                     0                   0
of the Project
(5)  Refunding of tho                 0                Amount due                  0                    0
Project Preparation                              under Section
Advance2                                        2.02(b) of this
agreement
(6) Unallocated                   1,298,000                                        0                    0
Total               17,500,000                                   17,105,477            394,523
(US$19,000,000)                              (US$21,772,373          US$535,762)
(Total - US$22,308,135)
1983:  1 SDR - US$1.086
June 28, 1991:  1 SDR - US$1.317
October 22, 1991:  1 SDR - US$1.358
2 The sum of SDR 734,000 allocated for the PPF was never used, and this amount was added to the amount of SDR
1,926,000 for item (4) resulting in the total allocation of SDR 2,660,000.



_31 -
Table 8. Direct Benefits
Appraisal
&Estimts.             Actual
Total Beneficiaries                       125,000              135,000
(urban and rural
inhabitants to whom
electricity has been extended)
New Consumers                              15,500                15,672
No. of customers whose                      4,500                 6,725
services have been upgraded
KW of industrial and                           20                   /
commercial load connected
to the national grid
/1 Installed megawatt capacity substantially exceeded 20 MW, due to the connection
of several industrial enterprises which were not anticipated at appraisal.



- 32 -
Table 9. EconomIc IcMact
Appraisal
Estimate           Actual
Economic Rate of Return               18%                11l
Assumptions at Appraisal: The IERR was based on the measurable benefits and costs
associated with the Project.
Costs: The costs included the project's capital expenditures, the LRMC cost of
generation and transmission adjusted for distribution losses (Yrls 0.4/kWH for MV
consumers, YRls, 0.61/kW for LV urban, and YRls 0.71 for LV rural consumers, and
operation and maintenance of the distribution system assumed to be 2 percent of
capital expenditure.
Bengfits: In estimating the benefits the revenue from the sales of electricity was
calculated by taking as a proxy for the customer's willingness to pay the current
and projected tariffs (expressed in real terms) applicable to each customer class
(urban, rural and industrial), and the customers' contributions, by assuming
connection charges of YRls 830 per domestic and YRls 2,000 per small industrial and
commercial customer.
Actual Methodology Used for IERR Calculation: The methodology used to calculate
The IERR was calculated for YGEC's investment program for the period 1983-1990
(project implementation period:
Costs: Investment costs have been restated in terms of 1990 prices; (ii) operating
and maintenance costs, apart from fuel expenses, are calculated at 2 percent of the
investment costs; and (iii) fuel costs are based on the system. average fuel
consumption of 250 g/kwh and on crude oil prices of about US$17.7/bbl in 1990.
Benefits: Incremental benefits are calculated on the basis of incremental sales
attributable to the program plus connection fees resulting from new consumer
connections under the program. The incremental sales have been valued at the system
average tariff of YR 1.10/kwh in 1990.



- 33 -
Table 10. STUDIES
Loan Research and Consumer Classification (Tariff) Study
Purpose as Defined at Appraisal: YGEC agreed to hire by July 1, 1984, consultants
to carry out a load research study which would provide the basis for consumer
classification and tariff restructuring to ensure: (i) YGF.'s financial viability;
and (ii) differentiation between consumers based on the cost incurred in providing
the service to each customer class. Consultants to undertake the study were to be
hired July 1, 1984 - December 31, 1984.
Status: To date this study has not been undertaken. As no funds remained available
under Ciedit 1361-YAR IDA had agreed, prior to unification, to provide financing
under the Fourth Power Project for this study which is urgently required to provide
the basis for recommendations to improve YGEC's financial position. IDA had given
its "no objection' to the appointment of the consultant, ESB (Ireland) in July 1990.
The study was to be completed by November 1990 and its recommendations were to be
implemented by January 1, 1991 with the objective of ensuring YGEC's compliance with
its financial covenants in 1991. However, after unification the Government decided
to expand the scope of the study to cover the Southern Governorate. The terms of
reference of the study were revised and IDA again, gave its no objection for the
selection of the consultant, ESB (Ireland) in Octoter 1990. Due to the Gulf war and
YGEC's proposals to offer the assignment to another consultant without adhering to
IDA procedures the study was delayed once again. It was agreed with the June 1991
PCR mission that YGEC would invite the original consultant to sign the contract by
July 15, and the study would be completed by November 15, 1991. However, in
September 1991, the YGEC Board of Management decided to invite proposals from
several international firms of consultants for the study.
Construction Standards Study
PurDose as Defined at Appraisal: Consultants were to be employed (March 31, 1984-
September 1984) to prepare simplified construction standards for low voltage
systems. This would enable the MEW to enforce application of technical standards by
autoproducers.
Current Status: Delay in start of the study due to the unification of two Yemens
and YGEC agreed to revise the Terms of Reference by August 1990 in line with its
discussions with the IDA mission (0//90). Since funds are no longer available under
this credit, the Government and YGEC agreed to seek alternative sources (including
own sources) to finance this study.



- 34 -
Exoansion and Investment Programs Study
PurRose as Defined at Aooraisal: Since its creation, YGEC has undertaken a
considerable number of studies on generation, transmission, distribution,
management, dispatching etc. Each study makes recommendations aimed t addressing
the issue at hand in isolation from other broader considerations. To remedy this
deficiency which has led to unbalanced investment decisions, YGEC agreed to appoint
consultants (MNrch 1984-December 1984) (i) review, update and consolidate into one
study all recommendations included in the existing studies; (ii) formulate a
balanced system development plan up to year 1991; (iii) produce cost estimates for
implementing the proposed plan; and (iv) prepare a manpower plan.   Such a study
would help YGEC in optimizing its expansion program and ind deriving medivm term (3
to 5 years) investment programs.
Current Status: Until 1986 YGEC had not hired consultants to formulate the
corporations's expansion program to year 1993. However, part of the work required
for the Expansion and Investment Programs Study is being undertaken under the Gas
Utilization Study funded by the Netherlands Government. This will however, need to
be supplemented and during the PCR mission in June 1991 Government and YGEC agreed
to seek alternative sources for this work.



- 35 -
Table 11. Status of Malor Covenants
DCA/PA Reference             Covgnant                     Status of Compliance
DCA 2.04                     Closing date June 30,        Postponed four times
1987.                        (see Table 2).
DCA 3.02 (a)                 Consultants to be            Not complied with (see
hired by 03/31/84 to         Table 10). YGEC
help development and         currently seeking
application by MEW of        financing from other
appropriate technical        sources.
standards for the
construction of
privately owned low-
voltage generation and
distribution system.
DCA 4.02 (b)                 By December 31, 1984         This will be
the Borrower shall           implemented based on
take actions to              recommendations of
provide staff and            study mentioned above.
resources to enable
MEWs' Technical
Department to
effectively monitor
development of
privately owned
electricity generation
and supply systems,
and implementation of
construction standards
by privately owned
generation and
distribution systems.
The Government not to        Due to the existing
DCA 4.05                     incur capital                excess generation
expenditure of more          capacity, this
than US$10 million in        covenant was added on
power generation             05/19/88 and YGEC is
without agreement with       in compliance since
the Bank.                    then.



- 36 -
PA 4.03 (a) (i)              YGEC to take all              Not complied with. See
measures req;uired to        para 8.21.
produce gross revenues
equivalent to not less
than 90X for 1984 and
100% by 1985, of the
total operating
expenses of YGEC.
PA 4.03 (a) (ii)             The Government/YGEC to        Not complied with (see
take all necessary           paras 8.21 and 8.22).
measures including           This covenant was
tariff adjustments to        amended on 05/18/88
produce an annual rate       under the DCA and PA
of return of not less        of Credit 1701-YAR.
than 3% of the average       The revised covenant
current net value of         calls for an annual
YGEC's fixed assets in       rate of return of 3%
operation for each of        of the current net
its 1986, 1987 and           value of YGEC's fixed
1988 fiscal years, 5%        assets in operation in
for its 1989 fiscal          1989 and 1990, and a
year, 6% for its 1990        return of 5% from 1991
fiscal year, and 8%          onwards.
for its 1991 fiscal
year and for each of
its fiscal years
thereafter.
PA 4.05                      Except in agreement           Since commissioning of
with the Association,        Al Mukha power station
YGEC not to incur any        no major debt has been
debt unless the              incurred, even though,
projected internal           the cash generation
cash generation of           ratio was on occasions
YGEC is at least 1.5         lower than 1.5.
times the project debt
service requirement
for the year.
PA 4.02 (b)                  YGEC to furnish its           Audited reports
audited accounts to          usually received late.
the association within
six months of the end
of the fiscal year.
PA 4.04                      YGEC shall apply the          Since 1987, YGEC pays
fuel adjustment              international level of
clause, from January         fuel oil prices which
1, 1985, to cover all        are substantially
changes in its own           lower than those paid
fuel costs as they are       earlier by YGEC.  The
incurred.                    covenant was deleted
in the Credit
agreements for Credit
1701-YAR.



- 37 -
PA Sched. 2                  YGEC to appoint              Consultants appointed
*                                   consultants by               on July 24, 1984.
September 30, 1983 to
formulate and
*                                   implement a
comprehensive plan for
improving YGEC's
organization,
management, staffing
and financial
operations (financial
recovery plan)
PA Sched. 2                  YGEC to employ               Consultants appointed
consultants by               on July 24, 1984. Same
September 30, 1983 to        contract as above.
carry out a program to
computerize YGEC's
accounting and billing
operations.
PA Sched. 2                  YGEC to appoint              Consultants appointed
consultants by January       on 12/85.
1, 1984 for
construction
supervision of project
facilities.
PA Sched. 2                  YGEC to appoint              Not complied with
consultants by March         (Table 10).
31. 1984 to formulate
YGEC's expansion
program to year 1993.
PA Sched. 2                  YCEC to appoint              Not complied with
consultants by July 1.       (Table 10).
1984 to carry out a
load research study.
P.A. 4.06                    YGEC to ensure that          Not complied with.
its customers pay            (see para 8.23).
their electricity
bills within 60 days
of the date of
issuance of the bills.



- 38 -
Table 12. Use of Bank Resources
(staffyeeks)
Preparation                   33.8
Appraisal                     30.2
Negotiations                   5.0
Supervision                   89.0
158.0
Table 13. Mjssions
Montb/      No. of      Days          Status*
Yvara       Persons      in Field     Ratinx
Identification                            06/81 /1         2            16
Preappraisal                              05/82 /1         4            20
Preappro4otil follow-up                   08/82            1            15
Appraisal                                  10/82           4            21
Supervision I                             06/83 /1         3            15           2
Supervimion II                            07/84 /2         3            15           2
Supervision III                           01/85 /2         2            15           2
Supervision IV                            07/86 /3         1             9           3
Supervision V                             02/87 /3         3            15           3
Supervision VI                            11/87 /4         2            12           2
Supervision VII                           06/88 /4         2             9           2
Supervision VIII                          11/88 /4         2             7           2
Supervision IX                            10/89 /A         2             7           3
Supervision X                             07/90 /4         2            12           4
* Status Ratings: 1 - No significant problms
2 - Moderate problem
3 - Major problms - approach being taken to address problems
4 - Major problems - not being addressed adequately
/1 With supervision of 837-YAR and 1102-YAR.
/2 With supervision of 837-YAR, 1102-YAR and preappraisal Power IV.
/3 With supervision of 1702-YAR.
/4 With supervision of 1702-YAR and identification of Power IV.



- 39 -
Table 14. YGEC Actual and Estimated Income Statements
Fiscal Years 1983-90
------------------------------Actual---------------------------------           Estimated
1983       1984        1985       1986        1987        1988        189         198
Gih Sales                    245         297         355        403         450         545         627         809
Avg Price (YR/kWh)           1.14       1.11        1.11       1.08        1.05        1.03        1.13        0.98
YR Million Unless Otherwise Stated
RmVE
Electricity Sales         279.00    330.00       395.00     436.00       474.45      560.38      708.00      790.00
Service/Capacity
Charges                52.45      63.72       98.84     112.26       82.00       88.1
Other Operating Incoce      7.00      10.00        6.25        7.81       10.37       17.39       19.97       21.58
Watcr Sales                 0.00        0.00        0.49       0.09        0,31        0.03        0.03        0,03
TOTAL OP1RATING REVENUE              340.0       454.19    507.62       583.97                   8100        899.76
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries and Wages      91.00     122.00      118.82     141.54      176.91      200.08      247.00      287.00
Fuel                   150.00    184.00       261.79    285.52       266.07      242.34      320.00       461.00
Other Operating
Expenses           24.00      43.00       49.16      76.34       79.29       99.01       92.00      148.00
Depreciation            40.00      76.00       87.98      96.01      102.82      166.42      228.01       237.00
TOTAL OPERATING EtPENSES    .00                                                       a 599.41  7 
SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)         (19.00)   (85.00)    (63.56)   (91.79)    (41.12)    (17.81)    (77.01)   (233.24)
Interest Charges       40.00      29.00       55.95      98.67      131.11      124.53       72.00      133.00
Less Interest
Charged to Constr.   21.00        5.00       12.74      31.83       60.52        0.00        2.00         3.00
Interest Charged to
Operations            19.00      24.00       43.21          4       70.59          5        70.00 
NET SURPLUS/
DEFICIT                (38.00)  (109.00)   (106.77)  (158.63)   (111.71)   (142.34)   (147.01)   (363.24)
Rate of Return (Z)         (2.9)      (5.4)        (3.3)      (4.6)       (1.9)       (0.8)       (3.4)       (6.9)



- 40 -
Table 15. YGEC Actual and Estimated Balance Sheets
Fiscal Years 1983-90
--------------------------------Actual--------------------------------          Estimated
1983       1984        1985        1986        1987       1988        1989         1990
YR Million
FrMF  SSTS (Cost)    1,437.51  2,014.22   2,056.38  2,171.59   2,260.58   2,320.49   2,389.09    4,383.97
Revaluation Surplus          0.24      77.63      184.95    297.69        418.64      535.77      645.26   1,064.37
Accumulated
Depreciation             146.01    222.01       302.16     387.10      473,91       608,08      780.35      964,09
Not Fixed Assets
in Operation         1,291.74   1,869.84    1,939.17  2,082.18   2,205.31   2,248.18   2,254.00    4,484.25
Work in Progress           440,53    635.37   1.445.34  2.081.04   2,398.81   2.572.93   2.688.69    1.089.84
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS       1.732.27  2.505.21   3.384.51  4.163.22   4,604.12   4 821.11   4.942,69    5.574.09
go=RFT ASSETS
Cash                         6.57       8.62       15.22      29.90       (40.92)      48.48      (16.84)      (79.89)
Trade Receivables           69.51     102.31      141.87     169.33      220.20       212.45      295.84       322.10
Other Receivables           21.33      25.54       33.08      45.52        41.68       68.13      116.70       205.04
Inventory                   67.4       60.33       98.32      90.38      127.72       129.69      179.81      201.04
Accrued Income              12.00      14,00       18.00      22.00        26.00       270         27.00         0.00
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS       176        210.80                               78         4           602.51      648.29
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable      113.91      172.1       316.77     446.10      367.01      281.62       303.48    1,255.24
Other Payables        113.41       18.78       30.43      34,95       40.20        46.10       39.32       45.85
TOTAL CURRENT
LIABILITIES             127.32      190.88      347.20     481.05      407.21       327.72      342.80    1,301.09
NET CURRENT ASSETS          49.49      19.92      (40.71)   (123.92)      (32.53)     158.03      259.71      (652.80)
TOTAL ASSETS            1,781.76  2.525.13    3,.343.80  403.30   4.57159   4.979.14    5.202.40    4.921.29
FINANCED AS FOLLOWS:
EQUITY
Government Equity          838.12  1,077.36   1,718.07  2,343.69   2,514.58   2,690.65   2,954.52    3,491.81
Capital Contributions       99.64     122.64      177.36    221.68        278.26      328.10      372.64       381.52
Revaluation Surplus          0.24      77.63      184.95    297.69        418.64      535.77      645.26    1,164.37
Retained Earnings          (16.14)  (174.78)    (275.80)  (423.63)    (519.91)    (629.64)    (723.80)  (1.040.27)
TOTAL EQUITY               8        186 02.85   1,804.58  24 43             157   L,924.88          8            7 43
NON-CURRENS LIABILITIES
MDF Current Account                                                       354.93      699.78      699.78         0
Long-Term Debt             818.27  1,325.98   1,433.06  1,484.53    1,400.41   1,221.48    1,120.19            854.99
Staff Retirement
Reserve                   38.96      35.88       35.26      35.82        35.17       35.41       31.20         0.00
Consumers Refundable
Deposits                  53.67      60.42       70.90      79.52       89.51        97.59      102.61       168.88
TOTAL NON-CURRENT
LIABILITIES            910.90   .422.28   1539.22          99.8    1880.02   2.54            1.953.78    1.023.87
TOTAL EQUITY & NON-
CURRENT LIABILITIES   1,781.76  2,525.13    3,343.80  4,039.30   4,571.59   4,979.13    5,202.40    4,921.29



- 41 -
Table 16.  YGEC Actual and Estimated Sources and A4 licatlo  of Funds Statments
Fisgal Years 1984-1990
---------------------------Actual---------------------------           Estimated
1984        1985        1!17                     18          18           1990
Yr Million
Int a  Source
Not Income From Operations             (85.00)      (63,56)    (91.79)      (41.12)      (17.81)     (77.01)    (233.24)
Depreciation                            76.00        87.98      96.01       102.82      166.42       228.01       237.00
Staff Retirement Reserve                (3,08)       (0.62)      0.56        (0.65)        0.24       (4.21)      (3L102)
Other Sources                         (liZ08)        23.80       4.78        61.05       148.85                     L4.
Loan Receipts                          507.71       107.08      51.48       273.01       165.92     (101.29)    (265.20)
Goverument Contributions               239.24       640.71     625.62       170.89       176.07      263.87       537.29
Consumer Contributions                  23.00        54.72      44.32        56.58        49.84       44.54         8.88
Refund Deposits                          6.75        10.48        8.62        9.99         8.07         5.03       66.27
Total Sources                          764.62       83679       3482        571.52           76      358.93       319.9
ApolLcetions
Capital Expenditures                   771.55       852.13     750.91       406.76      234.03       184.36       396.04
Debt Service                                                                                                      699.78
Interest                                24.00        43.21      66.84        70.59      124.53        70.00       130.00
Increase/Decrease in WC                (32.98)      (65.15)    (97.61)      164.99      100.80       169.89      (842.98)
Increase/Decrease in Cash                2.0          6.60      14.68       (70.82)      89.40       (65.32)      C63.05)
Total Applications                     764.62        36.79     734.82       571.52      548.76                        79



-42 -
Table  17.   Financial Perf. mance Anallsis
1983      1984    1985     198      a        an       1f       1f
onerison gf Apaisal n4 Actua  Profitability Ratiog
Percent
SAR III         (6.2)    (2.4)     3.5    10.3    12.7    12.2
SAR IV                            (3.2)    18.2    23.3    18.5    28.1         35.4
Actual          (6.6)   (25.0)   (13.9)   (18.1)    (7.0)    (2.6)    (9.5)   (25.9)
SAR III        (12.2)   (14.8)    (5.4)     3.5      7.3      7.9
SAR IV                           (19.2)     8.7    14.2    10.4    21.3         29.2
Actual         (13.3)   (32.1)   (23.5)   (31.2)   (19.1)   (20.6)   (18.1)   (40.4)
SAR III         (3.1)    (1.0)     1.1      3.0      3.0      3.0
5AR IV                                                        3.0      5.0       6.0
Actual          (2.9)    (5.4)    (3.3)    (4.6)    (1.9)    (0.8)    (3.4)    (6.9)
B. Comerisongof Avoraisol and Actual Revenues and Expenses
1983     1984     1841986           1987     Jf88     1989     1990
Au1n n g
BAR III          248.70   407.30   556.00   617.10   719.00   845.40   930.30  1029.70
SAR nV           242.30   287.40   369.00   464.50   608.60   652.30   686.60   754.90
Actual           245.00   297.00   355.00   403.00   450.00   545.00   627.00   809.00
Actual  qjq_s La x of
SAR III            98.52    72.9X    63.8X    65.3Z    62.62    64.51    67.4X    78.62
SAR IV             98.52    72.91    63.82    65.32    62.62    64.52    67.41    78.62
Revenues in YR Million
SAR III          272.90   403.30   526.60   676.20   916.10 1,141.80
SAR IV                             380.00   528.30   597.10   643.30   681.70   740.90
Actual           279.00   330.00   395.00   436.00   474.00   560.00   708.00   790.00
Atuel Revenues as S of:
SAR III           102._X2   81.8X    75.02    64.5X    51.7X    49.0X
SAR  V                              103.92    82.52    79.42    87.1X   103.92   106.6X
Otrgtign ERxDenses i YR Million
SAR III          270.30   369.20   440.90   513.70   641.00   782.00
SAR IV                             367.30   417.90   397.90   435.70   464.00   505.40
Actual           265.00   349.00   430.00   503.00   523.00   542.00   659.00   896.00
Actual Expensas _s X of:
SAR III            98.02    94.52    97.5    97.9Z    81.6X    69.32
SAR IV                              117.12   120.42   131.42   124.42   142.02   177.3X



