Document of                           I            i
The World Bank                             LFKuv I
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3527-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 17.5 MILLION
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
THIRD POWER PROJECT
April 19, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1982                                   March 1983
Currency Unit = Yemeni rial (YRI)                              YRI
US$1 = YRls 4.54 1/                                 4.54
YRI 1 = US$0.22                                       0.22
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31 (from 1981)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilowatt (kW)             =    1,000 watts (103W)
1 Megawatt (MW)                   1,000 kilowatts (103kW)
I kilowatt hour (kWh)             1,000 watt hours (103Wh)
I Megavolt-ampere (MVA)           1,000 kilovolt-amperes (103kVA)
ABBREV IATIONS
CPO           Central Planning Organization
IDA           International Development Association
IDB           Islamic Development Bank
MEW           Ministry of Electricity and Water
MVA           Megavol t-ampere
NEP           National Electrification Program
NRECA         National Rural E:Lectric Cooperative Association
ODA           Overseas DevelopTnent Administration
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
YAR           Yemen Arab Repub'Lic
YGEC          Yemen General Electricity Corporation
YOMINCO       Yemen Oil and Mineral Resources Corporation
i
1/ No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the IMF. All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which has
been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Third Power Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount:                   Special Drawing Rights 17.5 million (approximately
$19.0 million equivalent).
41            Terms:                    Standard
Beneficiary:             Yemen General Electric Corporation (YGEC)
Relending terms:          Twenty years, including 5 years grace, at 9 percent
per annum. YGEC would bear the exchange risk.
Project
Description:           The proposed project is designed to assist the YGEC
in extending its service, at least cost, in the urban
and rural areas, facilitate the better utilization of
its generation and transmission facilities, and to
strengthen its staffing, management, planning and
finances. It would also assist the Borrower in for-
mulating technical standards for private installa-
tions. The project comprises: (a) the installation
of distribution networks in the rural areas of
Ba'dan, Al Misrakh, Marawiah, and expansion of the
distribution networks in Bani Hushaysh; (b) the up-
grading and expansion of the distribution networks
in the cities of Sanaa, Taiz and Hodeida; (c) the
construction of subtransmission lines to connect
industrial consumers and auto-producers within and
in the vicinities of the cities of Sanaa, Taiz and
Hodeida; (d) the improvement of YGEC's organization
structure, management, staffing and financial opera-
tions, including computerization of its billing and
accounting system; (e) technical assistance in proj-
ect preparation and construction supervision; and (f)
training. It would include the installation of about
930 km of medium- and low-voltage lines, 33 distribu-
tion sub-stations with a capacity of 90 MVA, 300
distribution transformers with a capacity of 14 MVA,
15,500 meters and boards, and 1,300 streetlights.  It
would benefit 125,000 rural and urban inhabitants,
including 15,500 new consumers, and upgrade the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
service to 4,500 existing consumers. The project
risks relate to possible delays in implementation due
to lack of adequate experienced manpower in YGEC.
These risks have been minimized 'by the provision of
adequate technical assistance to assist YGEC in
project preparation and construction supervision.
Estimated Cost:                               Local       Foreign         Total
----------$ miLlion---------…
A. Rural Electrification
Equipment and materials                     -           6.0           6.0
Erection and installation                  2.6          3.1           5.7
Engineering                                0.1          0.1           0.2
Construction supervision                   0.2          0.5           0.7
Sub-total                              2.9           9.7          12.6
B. Urban Electrification
Equipment and materials                     -           7.5           7.5
Erection and installation                  3.0          4.5           7.5
Engineering                                0.1          0.2           0.3
Construction supervision                   0.2          0.4           0.6
Sub-total                              3.3          12.6          15.9
C. Industrial Loan Connections
Equipment and materials                     -           0.7           0.7
Erection and installation                  0.2          0.2           0.4
Engineering and
Construction supervision                   -           0.1           0.1
Sub-total                              0.2          11.0           1.2
D.  Technical Assistance                       0.6          2.2            2.8



- iii -
E.  Training                                                 0.5            0.5
Base cost                               7.0         26.0           33.0
Physical contingencies                     0.7           2.3           3.0
Price contingencies                        1.1           3.1           4.2
Total project cost                      8.8         31.4          40.2 a/
Interest during construction               2.7            -            2.7
Total Financing Required                  11.5          31.4          42.9
Financing Plan
Proposed IDA Credit                              -          19.0           19.0
Islamic Development Bank                                     9.0           9.0
Existing loans (from Arab Fund)                  -           0.5            0.5
Government                                      9.5          2.9           12.4
YGEC (including
Customer Contributions)                        2.0           -             2.0
11.5         31.4          42.9
Estimated IDA Disbursements;  IDA FY            1984    1985    1986    1987
…________ …million…--------
Annual                                         1.3      6.9      7.0      3.8
Cumulative                                     1.3     8.2    15.2    19.0
Rate of Return:                  18 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:          Report No. 4321-YAR, dated April 11, 1983
a/ The project costs include the project preparation facility advance of
$800,000 to be refinanced from the credit.



1                                                                                                                                         A



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A THIRD POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 17.5 million (approximately $19.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to help finance a Third Power project.  The Islamic
Development Bank has expressed interest in participating in financing the
project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic:  Development
of a Traditional Economy," (No. 2057a-YAR), dated December 14, 1978; a Coun-
try Economic Memorandum (No. 2856-YAR), dated October 23, 1980; a report on
manpower development (No. 3181a-YAR), dated March 27, 1981; a report on
domestic resource mobilization (No. 3554a-YAR), dated January 6, 1982; and a
report on the manufacturing sector (No. 3151-YAR), dated November 12, 1982,
have been distributed to the Executive Directors. Country data are attached
in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The
republican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution
succeeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the
fQundations of a modern state.
4.        Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties have provided the basis for rapid development of the public and private
sectors.  Under the Three-Year Development Program (1974-76) and the First
Five-Year Plan (1977-81), the foundations of the country's physical and
social infrastructure were laid and expanded, and first attempts were made
at lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of its medieval
setting; industrialization was also started, albeit on a small-scale.
5.        Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly
workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
1/ Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report for the Fifth
Education credit (Report No. P-3471-YAR dated March 2, 1983) approved by
the Executive Directors on March 22, 1983.



- 2 -
increased, on a net basis, from around $40 million in 1969/70 to a level that
has fluctuated around $1 billion on an annual basis between 1978 and 1980.
Major Development Issues
6.        Recent achievements in development, remarkable as they are, should
not detract from the fact that YAR continues to be one of the world's least
developed countries. Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially
in agriculture. Over 90 percent of the population resides in rural areas,
a large part in remote villages without access to modern transportation,
schools, electricity or health services. Agricultural land and water are
scarce and few mineral deposits have been discovered so far.
7.        The shortage of skilled and semi-skilled manpower is an overriding
constraint to YAR's development and limits the capacity of the public admini-
stration to manage and implement a growing and increasingly complex develop-
ment program.
8.        A special effort is required to mobilize domestic resources for the
financing of fast-growing government expenditures. Although government reve-
nue rose rapidly during the 1970s, the tax base is still very small. Most
budget revenue is derived from import duties, while other sources of taxation
are still largely undeveloped. So far, budget deficits have been covered
through generous foreign aid. But this assistance could diminish in relative
terms over the longer run, a development which calls for measures to broaden
the tax base, strengthen the tax administration, and devise new schemes to tap
the savings of the private sector. A Bank mission, with IMF participation,
addressed these and related issues, and its report was discussed with the
Government in November 1981.  The Government has already implemented some of
the mission's recommendations, but the tougher measures are likely to take
more time to implement.
Government Objectives
9.        As of the early seventies, the country has been trying to develop
human resources and build new institutions, to strengthen the physical and
social infrastructure, to raise the productivity of the commodity-producing
sectors, and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority
to their basic needs. Most of the First Plan's targets which were in line
with these objectives have been met except in the agriculture sector. Over-
all agricultural output has stagnated and actual growth fell below targeted
levels primarily because of the abandonment of marginal rain-fed areas where
income opportunities could not compete with the opportunities of migration.
However, the production of cash crops such as fruits and vegetables has
increased because of their profitability. The production of qat (a mild
stimulant) has also been on the increase and has competed for agricultural
land. Its production is only partially reflected in the national accounts.
10.       The Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86) was presented to an Interna-
tional Development Conference in April 1982. The Bank was the executing



- 3 -
agency for a UNDP-financed project overseeing some inputs used by the Cerntral
Planning Organization for the Plan. The Plan's aim is a 7 percent GDP growth
target calling for a total investment of around $6.5 billion (1981 prices)
over the plan period. The sectoral distribution of investment underlies a
continued broad-fronted strategy with a relative emphasis on agriculture and
manpower ievelopment. The Plan's financing depends heavily on external
sources with around 70 percent of investment expected to be covered by grants
and loan disbursements and direct foreign private investment. The Bank has
cautioned the Government against setting unrealistically ambitious targets
and advised it to maintain flexibility in plan implementation should the
level of expected external resources prove untenable.  In fact, it seems that
due to recent developments in the Middle East region, financial assistance
from neighboring countries may not be forthcoming at the levels that were
expected and the Government is responding by setting tighter priorities over
its investment program in the context of its annual plans and budgets. The
situation has further been exacerbated by the resource needs for reconstruc-
tion of the Dhamar area affected by an earthquake in December 1982, thus
putting further pressure on Yemen's developmental effort.
Recent Economic Performance
11.       Overall economic performance during the First Plan period (1977-81)
has been satisfactory. Real GDP grew at around 6 percent p.a. Investment
effort was impressive, averaging around one-third of GNP. Since 1978, how-
ever, a noticeable deceleration in the growth of most economic aggregates has
set in. This has been mainly due to the stabilization in the inflows of
workers' remittances and private transfers. Since imports and consumption
continued to grow, national savings, the balance of payments and the foreign
exchange position deteriorated. Thus, the overall balance of payments which
showed considerable surpluses before 1978, showed an estimated $330 million
deficit in 1981. Reserves which were equivalent to around 20 months of
imports in 1975 were down to around 6 months by end 1981.
12.       The budgetary position has also deteriorated rapidly as of 1978.
The overall deficit has more than quintupled from 1977/78 to 1978/79 and has
remained around the same level (some $500 million) through 1981. The main
reason is the very steep rise in capital expenditures at a time when revenue
increases were moderate.
13.       YAR's commodity exports are still extremely low, reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its
economy. Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $194 million in
1973/74 to $1748 million in 1981. This upsurge in import demand reflects the
rapidly rising cash incomes, the convertibility of the Yemeni rial, and the
absence of import restrictions.
14.       Although there are no reliable data on income and consumption
distribution in YAR, there are reasons to believe that the benefits from



recent growth have been widely distributed; migration has led to little
apparent unemployment so far, and strong family ties ensure that many people
benefit from the increase in incomes. Public social expenditures, especially
in education and health, increased substantially, and the associated benefits
accrue directly to an increasing segment of the population.
Capital Flows and External Debt
15.       Since independence, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifica-
tion as a "least-developed country," most of the aid was provided in the form
of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements, including
grants, came to around $2 billion by the end of 1981. The principal donors
have been Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Iraq, USA and West
Germany as well as IDA and the Arab development funds.
16.       About one half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and more recently, for
budget support primarily from Saudi Arabia. Food aid has been provided
through the World Food Program and by a number of bilateral donors. A signi-
ficant part of official grants has been made available in the form of tech-
nical assistance. Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR,
this type of aid has high priority and will be needed by the country for many
years to come. Besides the grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official
loans and credits. Drawings on the'se loans have increased in recent years,
reaching $417 million in 1980 and tP294 million in 1981. Most of the official
loans and credits have been committed for the financing of specific projects,
with the main emphasis on roads, agriculture, including irrigation, and
utilities. The remaining funds were given for commodity assistance or as
cash loans.
17.       The terms on which YAR has obtained official loans have been very
favorable.  Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of China are, for
the most part, free of interest. W4estern European countries have generally
charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates charged by
Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4 percent.  Loan maturities range from
5-50 years, with a median of 20-30 years.
18.       YAR's external public delbt outstanding on December 31, 1981 was
estimated at $1747 million, of which $1094 million was disbursed. IDA
credits accounted for $239 million or about 14 percent of the total debt
reported. Because of the very favorable terms of borrowing, the debt service
payments amounted to $59 million for 1981, equivalent to around 1.3 percent
of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers' remittances and
private transfers). Service payments are expected to rise significantly over
the next decade.



PART II - WORLD BAN{K OPERATIONS 1/
19.        The proposed credit would be the thirty-fourth to YAR, bringing
total IDA commitments to $331.8 million.2/  The World Bank strategy in YAR
has been threefold: to concentrate on developing the basic institutions,
skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for development,
to develop production and income in the dominant producti-* sector, agricul-
ture, and to support the Government in its programs to meet basic needs in
rural and urban areas. To achieve these objectives, IDA has extended eleven
credits, totaling $120.4 million, for agriculture, fisheries and rural infra-
structure; twelve credits, totaling $114.6 million, for infrastructure in-
cluding highways, ports, water supply and sewerage, power distribution, and
urban development; five credits, totaling $51.0 million, for education and
training; two credits, totaling $14.3 million, for industry; a $2.0 million
credit to promote the exploration of the petroleum and geothermal resources
to private companies; and a $10.5 million credit to strengthen and expand the
capability of the Ministry of Health to plan, staff and manage the country's
health care system. In FY78, an investment of $2.4 million by the Interna-
tional Finance Corporation was approved to help finance a dairy and juice
project. Further opportunities for IFC involvement are being explored.
20.       The main constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of manpower,
especially skilled and professional, and the newness and weakness of its
institutions. World Bank strategy in YAR has placed emphasis on helping to
strengthen Yemeni institutions and manpower capabilities, through increased
training of local staff and continued technical assistance, as well as
through direct financing for education. Thus all IDA projects in YAR contain
substantial components for technical assistance towards institution build-
ing. Two particularly important examples of the World Bank's support for
institution building have been in the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and
the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF). In CPO, the World Bank
(through three grants totaling $520,000) and the Kuwait Fund have financed a
team of planning and economic advisers so as to create a planning machinery.
The Bank has been the executing agency for a UNDP-financed project to assist
the CPO in the preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan, 1982-86 (see para.
10). In MAF, the Bank supplies the services of seven advisers initially
financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing agency, and now financed jointly
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the Fifth
Education credit (Report No. P-3471-YAR dated March 2, 1983) approved by
the Executive Directors on March 22, 1983.
2/ This includes the supplementary credit of $10.3 million for the First
Tihama project, No. 376-1 YAR, and excludes the $7.0 million credit for
the Textile Rehabilitation project, No. 832-YAR of 1978, which was
cancelled at the Government's request in October 1979 (see Annex II).



- 6 -
by IDA, the EEC Special Action Fund (under the Second Tihama project) and
UNDP. The Agricultural Research Station at Taiz, which has the responsibility
for carrying out applied agricultural research for the country as a whole, is
also financed as part of this institutional support.
21.       YAR's disbursement performance (disbursements as a percentage of
total commitments) lagged somewhat lately largely due to the delay in the
recruitment of staff for project implementation and the shortage of counter-
part funds arising from budgetary constraints. Following a number of imple-
mentation reviews of the whole portfolio, performance started to improve and
implementation of ongoing IDA-assisted projects is now progressing satisfac-
torily. YAR's performance now compares favorably with the regional average
and is considerably above that of countries at a similar level of develop-
ment. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits, Bank grants, and
IFC investments, as well as notes on the execution of the ongoing projects,
as of March 31, 1983.
22.       Future World Bank operations will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in infrastructure, agriculture, rural development
and education and training, and will seek to spread the benefits of develop-
ment more widely throughout YAR. Particular attention will be given to YAR's
ability to implement projects, by ensuring the availability of key staff and
technical assistance needed for successful implementation.  A fifth highway
project and a sixth education project have been appraised.  A project designed
to assist the Government in its reconstruction efforts in the areas affected
by the recent earthquakes is being processed for consideration by the Execu-
tive Directors later this year. IDA participated, with the Arab Funds, in
the assessment of the reconstruction needs, and this report is being used by
the Government to mobilize external assistance. Several agricultural
development projects are in the preparation stage. Future projects are
expected to include water supply and sewerage, urban and housing, energy and
agricultural development, and may also include health, minerals exploration
and industrial finance.
23.       YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financ-
ing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of its develop-
ment expenditures in the future. Nevertheless, it remains among the least-
developed countries and requires special assistance through financing of a
large part of project costs, including local expenditures when necessary. As
in the past, the costs of future projects are expected to be substantially
higher than the amounts that IDA can provide, and we shall continue to co-
operate closely with other donors so as to maximize IDA's catalytic role in
stimulating co-financing. IDA-supported projects, including this project,
have led to about $340 million equivalent of cofinancing from other aid
donors.



- 7 -
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
24.        The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) is almost totally dependent on im-
ported e. Xrgy, mostly in the form of petroleum products. It has no known
commercially exploitable conventional energy resources.  The Government is
just beginning to systematically explore for natural gas, oil shale and geo-
thermal energy. It is negotiating with foreign oil companies to explore for
oil and gas on a suitable contract or production sharing arrangements. The
IDA-assisted petroleum and geothermal exploration promotion project (Credit
1216-YAR) approved in March 1982 includes technical and financial assistance
to reevaluate the potential in the western part of YAR, and to promote the
area to interested oil companies for further exploration. The Government is
also encouraging private capital to undertake exploratory drilling in the
Dhamar area where studies undertaken with Italian assistance indicated a
potential for geothermal energy. IDA assisted in the review of this study.
25.        YAR has significant renewable energy resources mainly in the form
of solar and wind energy. The feasibility of their potential use and ex-
ploitation is currently being explored with United Nations Development Pro-
gramme's (UNDP) assistance. Traditional fuels in the form of firewood and
animal dung meet a large part of the rural demand for energy, but no satis-
factory data exists regarding their exact contribution towards energy supply.
Energy Demand and Supply
26.        Petroleum Products:  YAR's commercial energy demand is in the form
of petroleum products. Starting from a low base, the annual consumption of
petroleum products is estimated to have grown at about 10 percent between 1975
and 1980, corresponding to the rapid economic growth in the mid-seventies.
The transport sector accounts for about 42 percent of its total petroleum
consumption, followed by industry, power and agriculture (40 percent), and
residential and other uses (18 percent). Despite this rapid growth, YAR's
per capita consumption is among the lowest in the world, (58 kilograms of
coal equivalent (kgce) in 1979), and compares with an average of 87 kgce for
similar low income countries. In line with prospects for GDP growth in the
1980s, the rate of growth of commercial energy consumption is also expected
to be moderate.   Further, energy demand will be contained by appropriate
Government policies (para. 27).
Energy Pricing
27.        The prices of all petroleum products are determined by the Govern-
ment. Until 1979, the prices to consumers were subsidized. However, since
then these prices have been increased periodically, and by 1981 the Govern-
ment eliminated fuel subsidies overall and brought domestic prices more in
line with border prices. The Yemen General Electricity Corporation (YGEC)
sets tariffs for electricity provided by it, subject to Government approval
(para. 38).



-8-
Sector Organization
28.        The responsibility for the energy sector in YAR is fragmented among
various agencies. The Yemen Oil and Mineral Resources Corporation (YOMINCO),
a state-owned corporation, is responsible for exploration for hydrocarbons
and geothermal steam, and distribution of imported petroleum products. The
Ministry of Electricity and Water (MEW), established in 1981, oversees the
operation of the Yemen General Electricity Corporation (YGEC), the only
publicly owned electric utility in the power subsector. MEW is responsible
for formulating policies and plans for the development of water resources and
the power subsector, including regulation and licensing of auto-generation.
MEW's activities regulating the private sector are minimal for want of ade-
quate qualified manpower and lack of established standards for electrical
installations. Traditional fuels such as firewood, crop residues and animal
wastes are within the domain of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Central
Planning Organization (CPO) has a coordinating role through its economic
planning function and its key role in mobilizing foreign assistance.
Power Subsector and Yemen General Electricity Corporation (YGEC)
29.        Power sector development in YAR is a recent phenomenon.  The total
capacity grew from about 2 megawatts (MW) in 1960 to about 20 MW in 1975.
Until 1975, it was characterized by small private utilities serving main
cities and towns, and private generation and supply in the villages. The
quality of service was poor, and there was no coordinated program of develop-
ment. In 1975, the Government established YGEC to take over the operation of
private companies and to eventually become solely responsi'ble for all the
public supply of electricity in YAR. YGEC has moved rapidly to consolidate
its service in the principal demand areas. At present, YGEC's systems have a
combined capacity of about 120 MW, of which 93 MW are installed in the main
cities of Sanaa, Taiz and Hodeida, while the remaining capacity is dispersed
in 28 large towns. With the completion of the Ras Katenib steam power plant
in 1983-1984, and Al Mukha, in 1987-1988, YGEC's installed capacity would in-
crease to 434 MW in 1988. Its sales have grown at about 30 percent annually.
YGEC provides electricity to about 133,000 consumers, of w[hich 99,000 (74
percent) are in the main cities. Still it serves only 9 percent of the total
population. The private producers serve another 24 percent. The Govern-
ment's long-term objective is to provide public electricity service to 80
percent of the population by 1990. The realization of this objective may be
affected by financial and manpower constraints.
30.        As YGEC serves only a small proportion of the population, the
electricity service in rural areas, which are either inadequately served or
not at all, is provided by private generation and supply. As YGEC has to
strengthen its capabilities to serve the entire country, private generation
and supply, with an estimated aggregate capacity of 500 MW, will continue to
be significant.



31.       While private generation and supply meets the power needs of a large
section of population beyond YGEC's reach, there is a need for improving the
technical standards and safety of the private installations.  Such improved
standards will facilitate their eventual integration into the national power
system. To assist the orderly and coordinated development of the private
sector in electricity generation and supply, MEW has agreed to employ by
March 31, 1984 consultants satisfactory to the Association, to prepare
simplified construction standards for low voltage systems (Development Credit
Agreement, Schedule 2, Part C and Section 3.02(a)). It is expected that the
preparation of these standards will be completed by about September 1984.
MEW will thereafter consult with the Association on the recommended technical
gtandards, and implement the recommendations in accordance with a program
agreed with the Association (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02(a)).
It will also strengthen its Technical Department by December 31, 1984
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02(b)) to monitor the application
of the agreed standards.
YGEC Organization and Management
32.       YGEC is managed by a Government-appointed Board of Directors and a
Management Committee. The Board of Directors formulate policy and approve
YGEC's budgets and plans prepared by the Management Committee, which are
subject to final approval by the Council of Ministers. YGEC's operations are
conducted through 6 decentralized regions and 27 branch offices. Although
each region has its own technical, administrative, accounting, billing, and
purchasing department, all regions depend on the head office for support in
system planning and project preparation. Branch offices, in turn, depend on
the Regions for support in construction and supply of materials, and major
maintenance of facilities. The existing organization needs to be restruc-
tured in line with YGEC's needs to serve its rapidly increasing consumers
better and to manage its huge investment program. YGEC's management struc-
ture will be reviewed by management consultants provided under the proposed
project to formulate a comprehensive plan to improve YGEC's organization,
management, staffing and financial operations (para. 43).
Manpower and Training
33.       YGEC faces a serious shortage of technically qualified and experi-
enced personnel. This is a national problem as the establishment of a modern
education system in Yemen is of recent origin. As a result, YGEC has to con-
tinue to rely on expatriate staff (presently numbering 54) and consultants
for its planning and operations. Despite its efforts to train Yemeni per-
sonnel, YGEC's dependence on expatriates is expected to continue for several
years (para. 35).
34.       To meet its growing manpower needs, YGEC initiated in 1976 a train-
ing program both in YAR and abroad. These programs were affected by lack of
adequate training facilities in YAR and qualified candidates for training
both at home and abroad. Since 1981 YGEC's newly constructed training center
began to provide training on-the-job besides training in various academic



- 10 -
disciplines.  This on-the-job training has proved more effective in meeting
YGEC's immediate needs of skilled and semi-skilled staff. After an initially
slow start, due to the difficulty in identifying qualified candidates, some
improvement has been made in recent years in training abroad. The proposed
project includes the provision of on-the-job training and formal academic
training in various disciplines.
Power System Planning
35.        YGEC is responsible for planning its system development.  Its
ability in project identification has improved considerably during recent
years.  However, due to lack of adequate qualified manpower, it continues
to depend on consultants for most system planning and project preparation
(para. 33). Major decisions involving generation and transmission invest-
ments are finalized at Cabinet level.
36.        YGEC initially formulated, with the assistance of consultants, a
program for the period 1978-1990 for the development of the generation and
transmission systems, as well as the distribution systems in Sanaa, Hodeida
and Taiz, its initial areas of operation. YGEC commissioned a study for the
development of a comprehensive long-term National Electrification Program
(NEP) which outlines a least-cost path for the development and expansion of
YGEC's distribution system. These two programs are currently being imple-
mented with inadequate coordination.
37.        YGEC's investments have emphasized generation, with insufficient
attention to complementary distribution needs. Under the proposed project,
YGEC has agreed to formulate a coordinated and balanced development program
for the period 1984-1993, and its financing requirements (Development Credit
Agreement, Schedule 2, Part B.3). Tthis program will be based on an integra-
tion and consolidation of the recommendations of the several studies YGEC has
already undertaken in specialized areas of power operations. This ten-year
program will enable YGEC and the Government to pursue in a timely manner the
necessary financing arrangements. YGEC has agreed to engage consultants
satisfactory to the Association to assist in developing the above-mentioned
program (Project Agreement, Section 2.03 and Schedule 2). Upon its comple-
tion, expected in December 1984, YGEC will submit this program to the Asso-
ciation for review, and taking into consideration the Association's comments,
will implement it in accordance with a time schedule satisf-actory to the
Association (Project Agreement, Section 4.07).
Electricity Pricing
38.        YGEC formulates its tariffs, but they require the Government's
approval. Though its current tariffs do not cover its operating expenses,
their level is higher than its long-run marginal cost.  YGEC's tariff struc-
ture needs to be improved.  Under the existing structure, YGEC charges urban
and rural rates/kwh, unrelated to the scale of supply and cost of service.
It does not help to meet its long-term financial objectives of progressively
making a reasonable contribution towards investment.



- 11 -
39.       YGEC has carried out a review of an earlier tariff study with the
assistance of specialists provided by the UK Overseas Development Administra-
tion. A draft of this review has been presented to the Association. It will
be finalized following a joint review with YGEC. To develop a restructured
tariff reflecting the economic cost of supply based on this review, YGEC will
carry out a load research and consumer reclassification study (Development
Credit Agreement, Schedule 2, Part B.1). To assist it in carrying out this
study, YGEC will employ by July 1, 1984, consultants with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association (Project
Agreement, Schedule 2 and Section 2.03). It will exchange views with the
Association on the conclusions of this study, expected to be completed by
December 31, 1984, and thereafter implement them in accordance with a time
schedule satisfactory to the Association (Project Agreement, Section 4.07).
The interim period will enable YGEC to equip itself with the necessary meter-
ing facilities. Pending YGEC's restructuring its tariffs to reflect the cost
of supply at various service levels, in view of its surplus generating and
transmission capacity it is desirable to introduce a special tariff to induce
high-voltage industrial consumers, especially auto-producers, to connect to
YGEC's system. YGEC will agree with the Association on the level of such a
tariff, and also on an agricultural tariff and the timing of their introduc-
tion. This will be beneficial to YGEC and to the auto-producers. In view of
its difficult financial situation, even though its tariffs are higher than
its long-run marginal cost, YGEC has agreed to maintain the tariffs to
low-voltage consumers prevailing on October 31, 1982 (Project Agreement,
Section 4.07(c)). It will also apply a fuel adjustment clause in its tariffs
to effectively pass on to its consumers any changes in its fuel costs intro-
duced after January 1, 1985 (Project Agreement, Section 4.04).
Financial Performance
40.        Under Credit 1102-YAR for the Power II Project, YGEC agreed that it
would earn a minimum return of 3 percent on revalued assets for fiscal years
1981 through 1983, 5 percent for 1984, 6 percent for 1985, and 8 percent for
1986 and thereafter. It has not been able to meet these targets during 1981
and 1982, although its current tariffs are higher than its long-term marginal
cost. Nor can it be expected to realize these targets in the near future as
its current revenues do not cover fully its operating expenses. This is due
to: (i) a large increase in its operating cost caused by a 72 percent in-
crease in diesel oil prices decreed by the Government to rationalize petro-
leum prices, as suggested by IDA; (ii) a steady increase in labor costs
stemming from YGEC's greater reliance on expatriates; and (iii) a slower than
forecast increase in sales and revenues due to delays in completing the
interconnection of the isolated systems.
41.       With a view to encouraging YGEC to achieve a realistic financial
performance, the Association has agreed to revised financial targets for
YGEC, under which YGEC would cover from its operating revenues 90 percent of
its operating costs in 1984 and 100 percent in 1985 and achieve a return on
its revalued assets of 3 percent in 1986 through 1988, 5 percent in FY 1989,
6 percent in FY 1990 and 8 percent in FY 1991.  YGEC will take necessary



- 12 -
measures to realize these financial targets (Project Agreement, Section
4.03(b)).  Towards this objective, YGEC will revalue its assets in accordance
with the principles agreed with the Association. If the proposed rates of
return are attained, YGEC will be able to make a contribution to its invest-
ment program, increasing from 11 percent in 1986 to 52 percent in 1987 and 75
percent in 1988. The self-financing level is high in 1987 and 1988 because
the investments are not evenly distributed throughout 1983-1988, and are more
concentrated in 1983-86. For the period 1983-1988, YGEC would contribute
from its own resources about 7 percent of its total investments. YGEC will,
by September 30 of each year, make a forecast of the financial results for
the subsequent year and review with the Government the adequacy of its
tariffs, and the measures needed to attain the agreed financial goals. It
will furnish the results of its review to and consult with the Association on
the measures proposed for achieving the financial targets (Project Agreement,
Section 4.03(b)). The Government has agreed to continue to provide YGEC with
an operating subsidy so as to enable YGEC to fully meet all its cash operat-
ing costs including interest charged to operations (Development Credit Agree-
ment, Section 4.04(a)). Such subsidy will not be needed beyond 1983, if the
projected electricity sales materialize.
Financial Recovery Plan
42.        The factors influencing YGEC's present financial position are
largely outside its control.  However, to address matters within its control,
in assisting its financial recovery and to attain the financial goals indi-
cated above, YGEC will formulate, with the assistance of consultants, a
comprehensive plan to improve its organization, management, staffing and
financial operations (Development Criedit Agreement, ScheduLe 2, Part B.2, and
Project Agreement, Section 2.03 and Schedule 2) and after consulting with the
Association, implement it in accordance with a time-scheduLe agreed with the
Association (Project Agreement, Section 4.07). The appointment of consultants
with terms of reference, qualifications and conditions of employment satis-
factory to the Association to assist in the formulation of this plan is a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Development Credit Agree-
ment, Section 6.01(d)).  Understandings were reached that a substantial part
of the recovery plan would be ready by June 1984, and the consultants would
also assist in its implementation unt'il end-1986.
43.        The financial recovery plan would consist of a series of measures
encompassing all managerial aspects (personnel, planning, organization and
management, finance, construction, generation, operation and maintenance of
the system), including a comprehensive training program, and the planning and
timely implementation of adequate tariff adjustments. It will be implemented
in two phases. The first phase, relating to organization, management, staff-
ing and finance, will be implemented under the proposed project.
Collection of Electricity Revenues
44.        Under Credits 837-YAR and 1102-YAR, YGEC had agreed that its
accounts receivables would not be allowed to exceed 60 days of its sales.



- 13 -
However, at the end of 1981, its receivables were equivalent of 78 days'
sales. The receivables in the Sanaa region which produces about 50 percent
of YGEC's revenues, were especially high, reaching 87 days of sales. In
order to reduce its level of receivables by improving its billing and collec-
tion, YGEC will computerize its billing system with the assistance of con-
sultants, whose qualifications, experience, and terms of reference shall be
satisfactory to IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Schedule ', Part B.4 and
Project Agreement, Section 2.03). The appointment of these consultants is a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Development Credit Agree-
ment, Section 6.01(d)). YGEC'has also agreed to take all action necessary
to reduce its receivables to 60 days' billing by December 31, 1984 (Project
Agreement, Section 4.06).
Debt Service Coverage
45.       Under Credit 1102-YAR, YGEC agreed that it would not incur any
debt, without the Association's prior approval, unless its net revenues from
operations in the year preceding such borrowing, are at least 1.5 times the
maximum debt service in any year during the term of the debt proposed to be
incurred. This covenant is unduly restrictive for a rapidly expanding entity,
as it relates existing earnings to future debt service, and ignores YGEC's
future earnings and ability to service its debt. To remedy this shortcoming,
the Association has agreed that YGEC would not incur any new debt, unless its
projected net revenues from operations in any year during the term of such
new debt are at least 1.5 times the projected debt-service in that year.
Under the proposed project, YGEC will meet the modified debt service coverage
requirement (Project Agreement, Section 4.05). On this basis, YGEC's debt
service coverage ratio during 1986-1988 (i.e. after the implementation of the
financial recovery plan) is projected to be between 1.5 and 3.3, which is
satisfactory.
YGEC's Accounting and Auditing
46.       YGEC has installed a satisfactory utility accounting system devel-
oped by its management consultants. It has also trained key personnel at
headquarters and in the major regions to create a nucleus of people who are
capable of improving future operations. However, YGEC has yet to effectively
implement this system, so that it can serve as a sound tool of management.
YGEC's Financial Departments would be reorganized, both at the Head Office
and at the Regions, to improve its financial management.
Previous IDA Assistance in the Energy Sector
47.       IDA has assisted two power projects, and a petroleum and geothermal
exploration promotion project. IDA's first credit for power (Credit 837-YAR)
financed a part of the foreign exchange cost of a project involving the re-
habilitation of the distribution networks of Sanaa, Taiz and Hodeida, the
training of YGEC's staff, and a study to formulate the National Electrifica-
tion Program (NEP). The project was co-financed by the Netherlands Govern-
ment, as well as by a suppliers' credit. Its implementation was delayed



- 14 -
largely due to difficulties encountered by YGEC in completing the financing
package. It is now proceeding satisfactorily and is expectted to be completed
by mid-1984. The second credit (1102-YAR) financed a part of the foreign
exchange cost of a project involving the supply of electricity service to 18
villages and three principal farmers' markets at the outskiirts of the cities
of Sanaa, Taiz and Hodeida. The project was co-financed by the OPEC Fund.
Currently, all contracts have been awarded and the construction of project
facilities was started in March 1983, and is expected to be completed in June
1984, six months behind schedule. The delay is due to late arrival of
materials, as a result of delays in opening the letters of credit for the
supply contracts. The experience gained from these projects has underlined
the need for a viable financing plan and firm financing arralngements to
ensure smooth project implementation. This lesson has been incorporated in
the proposed project. The petroleum and geothermal exploration promotion
project is proceeding satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
48.        The proposed project evolved from two studies, one of them financed
under the first IDA-assisted Power Project (Credit 837-YAR) for the formula-
tion of a national electrification program. Project preparation was assisted
by an advance of $800,000 from the Project Preparation Facility. It was
appraised in November 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington from
March 28 to April 1, 1983. A staff appraisal report entitled "Yemen Arab
Republic: Third Power Project" (No. 4321-YAR), dated April 11, 1983, is
being distributed separately. The main features of the credit and the
project are mentioned in the Credit and Project summary and in Annex III. A
map of the project area is attached.
49.        The proposed project's objectives are to assist YGEC in extending
its service at least cost in urban and rural areas, facilitate the utiliza-
tion of available and committed generating capacity and strengthen its staff-
ing, management and finances. It will help YGEC to redress the imbalance in
its investment plans, and to realize the maximum benefits of the generation
investments underway.
Project Description
50.        The proposed project represents the second phase (L983-1986) of the
18-year National Electrification Program (NEP) formulated by the National
Rural Electric Cooperative Association (NRECA), a US consulting firm, and the
third phase of the urban rehabilitation program for extending public supply
of electricity in the major cities formulated by Kennedy & Donkin (K&D), a
UK consulting firm. It will complement the work begun under the First and
Second Power projects and enhance the viability of YGEC. It will extend
electricity service to four rural areas, rehabilitate and expand the systems
in the cities of Sanaa, Taiz and Hodeida, and connect to YGEC's system indus-
trial consumers situated in and around the above-mentioned cities. It will



- 15 -
bring the benefits of adequate and reliable electric service to about 15,500
new customers and upgrade the quality of service for another 4,500 existing
customers. It includes technical assistance services for computerization of
YGEC's accounting and billing operations, a financial recovery plan, advisory
services in various managerial and technical matters, and training.
51.        -t includes the installation of about 930 km of medium and low volt-
age lines, 30 distribution substations and 300 transformers (total capacity
104 MVA), 1,300 streetlights, erection, installation and civil works asso-
ciated with these facilities, provision of consultancy services for project
engineering and construction supervision, for managerial and organizational
improvement, planning, finance, accounting, and staff training.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
52.        The total cost of the project, excluding $2.7 million in interest
during construction, is estimated at $40.2 million in June 1983 prices, of
which $31.4 million would be in foreign exchange. It includes physical
contingencies of 10 percent. Price contingencies for the local cost com-
ponent have been calculated at 8 percent in 1983 and 7 percent for 1984 and
6 percent for 1985-1986. Price contingencies for the foreign cost component
have been calculated at 8 percent for 1983, 7.5 percent for 1984, 7 percent
for 1985, and 6 percent for 1986. The project costs include consultancy/
technical services of about 360 man-months, estimated at an average of about
$12,500 per man-month, including salaries, fees, overhead, international
travel and subsistence. These estimates are based on recent experience in
YAR, and are comparable to those in similar countries.
53.        The proposed IDA Credit of $19 million equivalent, represents about
48 percent of total project cost excluding interest during construction, and
about 60 percent of foreign cost. The project is exempt from taxes and
duties. The remaining $12.4 million of the foreign cost would be financed by
other co-financiers and the Government. The Islamic Development Bank has
expressed interest in contributing the equivalent of about $9 million. The
Government has agreed to provide $2.9 million. About $0.5 million, needed
for training under the project will be met from existing loans (Arab Fund).
Of the local costs of about $8.8 million, YGEC will finance $2.0 million
(23 percent) including customer contributions, and the Government has agreed
to finance the remaining $6.8 million (77 percent) in the form of equity.
The conclusion of arrangements with the Islamic Development Bank in a form
satisfactory to the Association to ensure its financing is a condition of
credit effectiveness (Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).
54.        The proposed Credit would be made to the Government.  The Govern-
ment originally requested that since it is already meeting the debt service
and operating costs of YGEC, the proceeds of the Credit be made available to
YGEC as equity. However, as YGEC's financial situation is expected to im-
prove in the years beyond 1985, YGEC's debt equity ratio of 1:1 in 1983 would
further improve in the coming years, and YGEC is a revenue-earning entity,
the Government agreed that it would be appropriate to make the IDA funds



- 16 -
available as a loan to YGEC. The Government will onlend the proceeds of the
Credit, (excepting $85,000 which would be used by the Government), for 20
years including 5 years grace, at 9 percent per annum. YGEC will bear the
exchange risk. The conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and the YGEC with terms arnd conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation is a condition of credit effectiveness (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 6.01(b)).
Project Implementation
55.       The proposed project, other than the formulation of standards for
private electrical installations, will be implemented by YGEC, through its
Project Unit established under the Second Power project. YGEC will maintain
the Project Unit with facilities, powers, staff, and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association (Project Agreement, Section 2.02). To assist
them in carrying out their respective parts of the project, YGEC and the
Government will employ consultants, with terms of reference, qualifications
and conditions of employment, and their time schedule satisfactory to the
Association (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(a) and Project Agree-
ment, Section 2.03 and Schedule 2).
Engineering and Construction Supervision
56.       Through Credits 837-YAR and 1102-YAR, an effort was made to stan-
dardize materials, network designs, and procurement procedures. Thus, the
general conditions for tendering, the technical specifications for materials
and equipment, and the network designs used under these ongoing IDA-assisted
projects would be used for the proposed project. YGEC will utilize the ser-
vices of consultants who are assisting it in the implementation of the two
ongoing IDA financed projects, to review and develop the preliminary designs,
verify quantities of required materiaLs and equipment, prepare specifications
and bidding documents, and to evaluate bids.  The foreign exchange costs of
these consultancy services are being met from an advance of $800,000 from the
Project Preparation Facility. YGEC also requires assistance in construction
supervision of the facilities included in the proposed project. In order to
ensure timely project implementation, YGEC will appoint by January 1, 1984,
consultants, whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment are satisfactory to the Association to assist in construction
supervision of facilities financed under the proposed project (Project Agree-
ment, Schedule 2 and Section 2.03(b)),
Procurement
57.       To accommodate the procurement requirements of thet other cofinancier
participating in the proposed project on the basis of parallel financing, the
specific project items to be financed by each of the co-financiers will be
agreed in advance. Contracts for equipment and materials, and the erection
and installation of project facilities financed under the proposed Credit
will be let by international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
Group guidelines. Procurement of small quantities of standard distribution



- 17 -
equipment and materials, not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000 per con-
tract, and amounting to not more than $400,000 in the aggregate, will be
procured in accordance with limited international tendering on the basis of
evaluations and comparison of bids invited from at least three eligible
manufacturers from different member countries of the World Bank. The re-
cruitment of consultants will be in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers."
Disbursement
58.       The proceeds of the proposed Credit will finance: (a) 100 percent
of the foreign expenditures for equipment and materials, erection and instal-
lation, engineering and construction supervision, consultancy and advisory
services; (b) 100 percent of the expenditures for the studies relating to
construction standards and load research, and (c) the project preparation
advance, amount due. The project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986, and the credit closing date would be June 30, 1987.
Accounting and Audit
59.       YGEC has agreed to submit its annual financial statements, audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association within 6 months after
the end of each fiscal year (Project Agreement Section 4.02). Due to its
staffing problems, YGEC has had difficulties in finalizing its accounts
promptly at the end of its fiscal year. This has resulted in some delays in
the audit of its accounts. With the implementation of its financial recovery
plan, YGEC is expected to be able to furnish its audited accounts to the
Association within the agreed time.
Justification
60.       The proposed project represents a part of YGEC's least cost devel-
opment program. It will benefit 125,000 rural and urban inhabitants, includ-
ing 15,500 new consumers, upgrade the service to 4,500 existing consumers,
and enable YGEC to derive the benefits of its surplus generation and trans-
mission capacity. The economic rate of return (ERR) on the investment will
be about 18 percent, which compares favorably with an opportunity cost for
capital of about 10 percent. In estimating the project's economic benefits,
the revenues from electricity sales have been calculated using as a proxy for
the consumers' willingness to pay (rural, urban and industrial) the current
and projected tariffs. If the costs of the incremental generating plant at
Al Mukha are treated as sunk costs, the ERR would be about 24 percent. If
the project's cost increased by 20 percent or incremental electricity sales
decreased by 10 percent, the project would still yield an acceptable 15 and
14 percent return respectively.
Project Risks
61.       There are no major risks associated with the project.  Possible
risks that could have an adverse impact on the project's rate of return



- 18 -
relate to delays which may be experienced in implementing the project, and
the uncertainty surrounding the industrial auto-producers' willingness to
connect to the national grid. Adequate technical assistance has been in-
cluded to assist YGEC, which would minimize possible implementation delays.
With regards to the industrial consumers' willingness to connect to the grid,
a preliminary effort at assessing their intentions indiicated that a good num-
ber of them would connect to YGEC's supply provided the connection charges
are reasonable. To this end, the cost of the necessary equipment and mate-
rials that will enable YGEC to extend its medium voltage system has been
included in the proposed project.,
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, thet draft Project Agreement between the Yemen
General Electric Corporation and the Association, and the recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Association's
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
63.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in Section III of Annex III. The special conditions of
effectiveness are; (a) the Borrower's obtaining firm commitments from the
co-financier in a form satisfactory to the Association; (b) the conclusion
of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and YGEC; and (iii) the
appointment of consultants, with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, to assist YG]EC in the formulation
and implementation of its financial recovery plan, and in computerizing its
accounting and billing operations (Development Credit Agreement, Section
6.01(b), (c) and (d)).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Assoc:iation.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
April 19, 1983



- 19 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL              195.0                                                           MIDDLE INCOME
ACRICLULTURAL       97.9                                   MOST RECENT             NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b             MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        ..           ..      430.0                 1253.6                     1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOC_ BS OF COAI. EQUIVALENT)         6.7          15.3       57.6                  713.5                     1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  4163.0           5258.0    7039.0/c
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  3.4              6.0       10.3                   47.3                       65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
FuPUL.ATION 1N YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           11.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              26.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          21.3         27.0        35.0                   35.8                      35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAI. LAND       43.1          54.0       69.8                  420.9                       92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCIURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            42.4         43.0        45.4                   44.3                       39.7
15-64 YRS.                            54.4         53.9        51.5                   52.4                      56.1
65 YxS. AND ABOVE                      3.2           3.1        3.2                    3.3                        4.2
POPLLATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.3           2.3        2.9                    2.8                        2.4
URBAN                                 8.1           8.0        8.3                    4.6                        3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        49.7          48.8       46.7                   41.2                       31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        28.9          26.4       22.8                   12.2                        8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.4          3.3        3.2                    2.9                        2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)           ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..               ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            119.0         84.0        92.0                  100.4                     110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      90.3         75.9       81.8/d                 108.5                     108.4
PROTEINS (CRA-SS PER DAY)            68.9         55.4        59.5/d                 71.9                      66.0
OF WHICH ANLMAL AND PULSE          17.6         13.7       i9.7Td                  18.0                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        60.4            ..       50.0                   15.1                        5.6
HEALITH
LIPF  EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.8           38.5        42.2                   56.9                       64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                        211.6            .       190.0                  104.3                      64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   *          4.0         4.O/e                 59.1                       65.6
URBAN                                   ..        45.0        30.O/e                 83.1                       78.9
RbRAL                                   ..          2.0        2. 07c                39.8                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..         ..                     ..                       59.3
URBAN                                   ..           ..         ..                     ..                       75.3
RURAL                                   ..           ..         ..                     ..                       30.0
POPULATIuN PER FHYSIC'AN           130093.8      24373.9   11673.3                   4015.5                     1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..           ..    4582.7                  1802.2                     1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              2726.3            ..    1699.8                   641.7                     477.4
URBAN                                   ..           ..     226.1                   538.3                     679.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..    6752.9                  2403.3                    1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..           ..       14.3                   25.5                       27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..            .         5
URBAN                                  ..            ..            2/f
RURAL                                   ..           ..        6.0                      .
AVERAGE NUlMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..           ..          8
URBAN                                   ..           ..        1.8f,.
RURAL                                  3.            ,.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
Of DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..             ..      56.5/f8.
RURAL                                   ..           ..



- 20
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN   ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC                   REFERENCE GROUP'S (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb            NORTH EAST          LATIN AMERICA S CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                   8.0          12.0      34.1                   88.7                     104.3
MALE                   14.0         23.0      59.4                  104.5                     106.4
FEMALE                 0.4           2.0        8.6                  72.0                     103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   0.1           1.0        4.0                  39.7                      41.3
MALE                     *-          2.0        7.0                  49.3                      40.4
FEMALE                   ,.         0.1         1.1                  29.0                      41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)   2.7/h           2.0        4.6/g                10.1                       33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRLMARY                             44.7/h        51.1      38.7/g                 34.1                      29.9
SECONDARY                           22.9/h        24.0      18.5/g                 23.7                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           2/5/h       10.0/i    21.0                    43.3                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..           ..         ..                  17.8                       42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..         15.3/j    15.4                  131.3                     270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..           ..       0.1                   44.1                     107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..         10.7         ..                  31.5                      63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..        O.9/d                  1.7                       2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1263.3       1481.0    1753.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     3.7          4.5        5.4                   10.6                      24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                83.0         79.0       75.0                  42.4                       31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   7.0          9.0       11.0                   27.8                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  30.3         28.2       24.9                  26.0                       33.6
MALE                                   57.7         55.0       49.8                  46.2                       50.4
FEMALE                                  2.3          2.5        2.5                    5.6                      16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5          1.6        1.9                    1.9                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
'RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..              ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     366.0                  279.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..        ..                  178.6                     184.1
ESTLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        ..                  403.6                     518.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..     157.0                  285.6                     371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                  22.1
RL'RAL                                 ..           ..         ..                  30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the Indicatora depends on avallability of data and Ia not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any Fear between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Resident population, includes migrant workers abroad for less than a year.
/d   1977; /e 1976; /f In the major cities of Sanaa, Taiz and Hodaidah; ./S 1975; /h 1962; /i 1973; /.  1972.
May, 1982



- 21  -ANNEX I
09511-Itas or  ocw    140icrOASPage    3   of   5
boot.L  bor   o   a,aeaiera   sni   taabyhts   a                               tataha .          .. ne  r.att        --sob.  aLto .e rIota  tria  onya    a       utr
W-oan ub  .aea- ah  b--ana  Itc.tot 1-   ohstct   baa  ctsitta-r  ant --coept  .s   bY ditttrtaot--                     t  attc tbgth  tao.  the bat  are, Ot
chtoeriob.00aaott  050eatcnaiS" a.  -ca-oetL tend. . oa  r                      .aoet -"ttt  SeJorttittt   ea*  Osth
~Ob-OO.C ~t'ta. attboobaah.  lb  oe tstsvtbc  group iot  ttta sosrgei are buprattafl rtbghtat arutrmtbb mO    trot  Obac-u  orb -tneae arty ahs
Y-ta  - ".,.I arct are  ouwha-r  ta-d stt  r  tob-d t-s-r; .979 s.t..                                    -Ia,  n   -roret  rihobbe  by chror  -eP.o Li. cohe  a  hoopatt  at
O.tbatao    tebc    hotutai  bost                   4    P .. ia p tatyt be ucosa.tonty          it Lat   opItbo  tri  Psrunat  -go.n  dat ipso    Id h-ePhtau  -rtt
tri  boy, yscss.  nrat  tu  otohc  arsc  at to  ite          1979; OY  den           tthatnnse,.tetsoatrtbth-,    eecgt   tbe
tbP ?ER CAPIttA tOSS) - W0   .  abasefe   at-I    .tr.   zutn   abtPbs. ra-                        that  Ia,atOtbtoe.trhhoytt.hteer  c a  haattt
-!t-id op in.  oC-_reba    ct~tsta    ot  tacbWe.ht-dh baits; `lOD.                              aad sata    ertectreesetotsld ty    nyeta   ho  to 
hOhCIb CONrIrth¶Pl    PERIJ   Ct-  nt... Orittb   i   iayb-    05g.-            bit                 botputte  rrarbttah ...t.lOs  rcuo..ers thIpcaa
boa      ott. rsroa -,racrl a  art Ohdta-. iuhoa  -naaahaa   hu                                 rd Ioarattbab   tirttuns   tt  s  toa   oiraect
brrbbihootaoata  bapoooatt  s  :yoa   ib,.9h9                        ba.70brtr.    potbOraabata   ar    lstar   rt   ttrorst
buob                                                                taatttoot oar  asottab Ss - torahoucant ri utabrisoits ta orbrabha,gn
Mto  hu-It-ah  obaited by the Oat  athaa-
OP41FtIhOttt  AtND VtTot. btTATbttt
tabs. -osraet -I,at Osansoht Iercac  artOo-aRodh-ttah..t-as  ant u.-b
asac  rosTrbsIJe; t9bl 1970  . sd 0980 data,teourotttettth.                                                                        sose
FPriptitha  hr 7.ar 2000 - itatr.n   p.I" poasatotrrhrtht- .t ..     aa .. e .t9tbsa  ytr.e  pe                    Last   t   ra.su  erto.utdvc tau
`ttetb   arots  sate Wbte he's          -hre hngt  eaaua - betts  P.                  atae.bin   s   oth isbogar1entey
tertibtity ac-ahie  vs tLnam ta.h ad pa.t tatoty ptneo- ptbusacs
-aah bo.,,y L. cttc  aeetgee4 art at t-e  ot.. asasatc   at att ty                     FhbAthdt0
a       L eottY  _otde tarpohatn  p-ryet.-atee   nbtm                                                          tto
SraOaoro apoatt    LI  .o  eeaeysonahro tra  ta on,.-sh abri-                           riiaotorn      cth    atac   icb  - Gr-t  -oat, sate  -suta
Lo otn  teh  vqaaIt  th. Osth   e. anshsu                 ---atvns  I.-                onu1-ca  a  ae    toe  tcr   et  an Iaona.   trseta
'hia.arete    lt  us -tbns lsy thr, amitttbht  ourti ugobto  t-                       yrbsavy auntsg    auteos  ccatytoa                     btdt-taid i-tb
nstcact a  cb  bah. t 0. r-3osdbar,tthtot   tnpr -htureaou   u   pp    are bton as 0                                            teOba tbabab  g
usecoa.r       0,adts  rat  atdeoTusa   attbyte  ca rsptaos                                    P.o.aIeoSou ..  rua.bt   c   esh      aetaatae,   cs
_It noh.rouohnr  n                                                                                            Yna   tas .tu  r--ats    4- .pp    ...d.y .cytritotu
ajruthb   enbd                                                                      utah  a  ZC  t   er  atp -      ag   areeut L ooarwer  geta
I.tah; a9er t9act.   1970tsttrdt.                                                             hn, IOhute114d esoehat (tnEtteetb   at ache  yragat. t.itot ritsrats tooUa.)
Perso    ch  aR-otualto         ---Ctttas5cratattuuakbt Mrtihy atIts d.paetne-a1 n4O1 peocdarlhesttutae.41Y.-    ,a.l
ha 9oc;hgi,  1970, act  6980 sacs.                                                    udo  I,rre  tr   orneh...eet  OlstaO   o  etttYeis
tacoe~a   hhbdO  thttt.d  ant hd.-dO                                                   tassrhts rae-hoe pm L ut-thos- Mnees  ar   uhs    ay
poynactc, tOt.hOo   ar  190 d is.    ath   .      ~      l            .ibiaecre-dttbY---
her rstealtcprtoothe paust I  theeopntsaOs  pteoto-eatlrtr-at  ate 't. abtot  ata-- ts  roat  ar                                dca  sc eV    na- els
ouit  rise   aat    Isyeraesc   eOn   thOb   9    tea t't.                                sttYona INt stt. htlh,stI
batmn a  ahb-eshta    t-tecselst athrh-ntOht ei s                                         tbeeeisht      ittat  pp ..e ettonea - aethasar L-  cis.k.e   rtsv
alt  atept  emito  am   Cet geu..otcc   fdiysseht eer  ertpe.dne    e5ptta
F-4 P'  ~~~1   1~~1! U969- ""W)    .d"               ~~~         CittnrcA--  Aetd .. . L. ...    ta ...  ittt ...    etneth.tehosutt
7100 Otto Rthtibtt ttg                                            4 f-    -dta he   .deiy  cci  Ihr  ost yat. htaet triri thes  a  ee
taeabnd       Y.dsane s   a'c tt-7-tb            y-tst oS     prurac   esa                 70c.    scs 4    csttc  reCatn  eetat  bid  sthtstato
.a.ua- cseY         prssOe    .tt    II.aehibea   19 140   -.90  aid hOO -a.                -tTsL aeFARe  tctttatst             - tvoaauahh-ocLc yvros.. btdc
yet day.  t.1.tebieeyha  uns-       t te  bamra  P,=   ita. b$-rt  L...                        Itune  vstblau  tSit.  9M0 set 198W  tat.
euat.stohangee ha  -iak.  Ot   aptssld    en   ea   at.7mctsrec       aaebsttreettset                                                              caratlbor batbe.
basttte   satOsFas-   esashs. eat " tese   0 I*1tib.1A,-hee   gsgaLe-                    bsshaerrtes      an   oe   atrlj    aary   at                             r
-4se  ears        1    ' sa Atata  by ... etes  a- piyetaiaicv-  nsct  tar ..-l  ltc-            tiis8a  pe         .eg  st hotel Iitz  t-ore  t9i0. tool set 1980 45-C.
.I, a   halh ucesatesacieastt  aisetse  bed,Vetuti.8ag                                   ItuAt-ly tre-se     - t..ais  Let   5 bhg  umetta.cnbttr
o                 sat sen ~altibiaetote  ohppsaf     a    c  athna.  hO pette   bar waste asd shetrtott,   -ea  set M.e s  perseseago cIf Istet lee  tI....
h-osbeld I.rsto l19-6 b  1970  Ae  1177 dai-                                                     199.  Ob  c  000  dta.
P*,   eaC tyrOl  oedpr a. at      ateP"bc  oY  r   ..s be tattet  fe Pbs. -0ta-acrhytraaea.ttacre, t,ts  ea.littrea
P.h,a peanace. at ejeot  la nr-  satl  bs aiseb P ..c. I..   Th.-s  stnet              .- tetoItuc nia--sas tlt..at  a  tts  uaaa.a    ag  hnce
-                  arts arcld   lover- tba  Lbesa oh 75 gras od  ot-al pe-nh       set lb - tea                    ... tee sei-ar   rte tfn    tiecal so.-e-,
hytodt c  ama   tPsit   dgee r tap, tOhI-hO, 1600 at  1977 datS.                         'tecteg 109T1001000
Chilt base  h-ut hath Oastureaaut      toa  ait   a   ttsthe                                    ehraea  Otu.t.   bam                 L.e he-ah nod todt - ..techod by rIoeat
"I  eap0u  5m   r  a`btildreL. 'hi.ot  ro   ms   arcs   ewbpo   or-                            7prsr  ttch-P,                    P.ercet, ..oea   bP-rto. rc Lpo...ne 45 Peto.e.
tre taos desrs   m   Ltf. tabhsu 1%06. 1970 att 1900 dat.                                     atoiotohe
rrEAL7tttPOOOSit   iiy
L"e,aetnya   lthterb     seaeooaea  yasa  ht  acbus                                            h    otutsnaoaegaorir   tyuuaLiteee .                         torr  aas
rio hhrthb  tOtS. tylO  act 1000 caca.                               tot acnolt be   . Inot-st  etbaaiOeoiasnbn
totct oytbbo  Ra  bar  hauu-t a     ansua   -h. ht at htbs-raudac usAber               Eolrs  rhche Ps-srrr tc-a   tatb  ,tS! tsr zIn-bc   -.sa  sot. ro.             t 
at cieust O     Lass  ~tI.      60rbo  oo. tar  act9tot  bea.ab                                      ..c poste  Lrona  te_   Cs thtlaestcbbtn   bor    b
bobct t  dae bretaerentut aenhctaut    raat,urrc, sd rrtu  -  ut-nnstttsatc- arttns--blt -oaeaeotat  etuten  v.tattmss i  ea
betat  sopa tuce. -rha, ad rest  ebb oeacshl  uteneOs as                     attrdtt
escroppb   toataaoraue   nutaa  strteot  ctasrt  ut  brooteaaot              tshaia  OhaereProto  tooa  tcettt0 te  sttar.rbo eF  ueh 
eseraohastenbrspreacd  athbt. gtas  td  ate,  bsise            toS  thibe   atr   ovm  eshheua-bitufaceocp.   spt
ystoteatesof ct hr  eatacuct    .,:bahe.1 0 a  uri.sLg.   ares a  obb                 eec.t  cu    ttecisy                 re   ac   etratEa   b  u
raettaa  atotos  toneto   erschr tt  scr  Oesa aatba  h     est  ttbtaueCea  Ot ote  cetatbatg dH                   tarare
ae Iar fO neheg  -b'.tih  esnal   aeaahChrhae    lb rbts  aeee                        ta      -Lut  Lattnt  ishue           Ub. Lhraot  uetotye dae  ronoaet I ... ean
yesrieha   acreenad  wic  usctO  bnaeehc  y eabeeatoh  hneeoO        st cce  -Pet eh  t  opbatottuea  aut  r.ah  os ae  ueatb.
OsbtrbOet  iaa,utt   c    ruth   earcat bPeurt  ttepoea -           a
askeeeaatte  b  est-baasee  attbyseo s-it pthe  ebt                    - s.--th-WD                                                                          5-
toOshOtnstcrFhybhhs  - Pontauba th iga  b  Obyt  at6,~ oreetbtegpoabsna.  sea bat9   as  tnea



- 22 -                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (US$ Mln)                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH
1981 1/                (Constant Price)
(Currepnt Prices)         FY1977-81      FY1981
GNP at Market Prices 2/              3228                     6            1
GDP at Market Prices                 2877                     6            5
Gross Domestic Investments           1284                    26            3
Gross National Savings                518                     1          -23
Exports of GNFS                        251                   24           30
Imports of GNFS                      2141                    13            6
OUPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1981)
Value Added    Resident Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln       %    Thousand        %        US$ _
Agriculture             820       32         830        69          988      47
Industry                206        8          54         5        3815      182
Services               1492       60         318        26        4691      224
TOTAL/AVERAGE      2518      100        1202      100         2095      100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRls Mln)
% of GNP
1977/78  1978/79   1979/80   1981        1981
Current Receipts                1985      2161     2755      3277       22
Current Expenditure             1250      1847     2531      3253       22
Current Deficit/Surplus          735       314      224        24        -
Capital Expenditure             1167      2618     2492      3807       26
External Assistance, Net         691      1904      976      2437       17
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
---YRls Million Outstanding End Period---
Money Supply                    5081      6273     7350      7868
Bank Credit to Govt. Sector   -990        -609      1199     4039
Bank Credit to Non-Govt.
Sector                        1555     2199      2830      3234
------Percentages or Index Numbers------
Money Supply at % of GNP          53        53        52        54
Annual Percentage Increase in:
Money Supply                  45        23        17        7
Consumer Price Index          17       22        11         7
1/  Provisional.  The fiscal year was from July 1 to June 30 through
1979/80, then it was changed to coincide with the calendar year as of
January 1981.
2/ Not including private transfers by Yemeni migrants whose duration of
stay abroad exceeds one year.



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (us$ Mln)
1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1981
Exports c  Goods, fob              7         3        7        10
Imports of Goods, cif           -801    -1250.   -1546    -1748
Trade Balance                   -794    -1247    -1543    -1738
Non Factor Services, net         -69      -36        --       -51
Transfers and Factor
Income, net                   1039      833      1098       788
Balance on Current Account       176     -450      -445    -1001
M & LT Capital, net              176      416       229       542
Official Grants                100      312       112      337
Official Loans, net 1/          76      104       117       205
Disbursements                (81)    (114)    (124)    (262)
Repayments                   (-5)    (-10)      (-7)    (-57)
Other Capital (including
errors and ommissions), net   73        162       184       128
Increase in Reserves (-)        -425     -128        32       331
Gross Reserves (end FY)         1085     1213      1180       850
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT (1981)                        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976/77-1979/80)
Total Outstanding             1747         Cotton and Cotton Products        14
of which disbursed            1094         Coffee                             9
Hides and Skins                  12
DEBT SERVICE RATIO (1981) 2/               Biscuits and Confectionary        15
All Other Commodities            50
7%                                             100
Total Outstanding and
Disbursed                    1.3
11 Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information
compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
2/ Workers' remittances and transfers included in denominator.
EM1DB
August 1982



- 24 -                          ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(As of March 31, 1983 - ' Million)
A. Statement of IDA Credits 1/
Amount
Credit                                                             (less cancellations)
Number Year       Borrower                Purpose                    IDA   Undisbursed
Nine credits fully disbursed                           81.3
465   1974 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Estate                    2.3        0.3
636   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Grain Storage and Processing    5.2             0.1
662   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Livestock Credit and Processing 5.0             0.7
670   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Water Supply II               10.0        2.8
714   1977 Yemen Arab Republic Port Development                     6.0       0.7
794   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Highways III                        11.5        4.6
805   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture II               10.5        3.1
837   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Power Distribution                  10.0        3.4
880   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture III              15.0       13.3
915   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Education III                       10.0       4.4
950   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply    12.0           11.8
978   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture IV                5.5        4.0
1025   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Fisheries Development               17.0      13.9
1067   1980 Yemen Arab Republic S. Uplands Rural Dev. II            17.0 2/   14.0 2/
1102   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Regional Electrification            12.0        6.3
1122   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Development              12.0       10.0
1202   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Urban Development             15.0       14.3
1203   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Education IV                        12.0      11.3
1216   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Petroleum and Geothermal Exp.   2.0             1.5
1259 3/1982 Yemen Arab Republic Agr. Research and Development   6.0             6.0
1267 3/1982 Yemen Arab Republic Highways IV                          7.0        7.0
1294   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Health                              10.5       10.3
1308 3/1982 Yemen Arab Republic Agricultural Credit                  8.0        8.0
Total                                                 302.8 4/
of which has been repaid                              0.1
Total now held by IDA                                 302.7
Total undisbursed                                                151.8
1/  Excluding $7 million credit for textile rehabilitation project cancelled
on October 31, 1979.
2/  Beginning with Credit 1067-YAR, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and
the dollar equivalents as of March 31, 1983, for the tndisbursed amounts.
3/  Not yet effective.
4/ Excludes a credit of $10.0 million for a fifth education project,
approved on March 22, 1983, it is not yet signed.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(Amount a US$ millions)
Year             Obligor            Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice       Dairy Products        2.4       -      2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                           2.4              2.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, sales                                _
Total commitments now held by IFC                 2.4              2.4
Fully disbursed
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were approved
in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 to help finance, jointly with
the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and
economic advisors and later a management/administrative expert. The Kuwait
Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and $425,000.
D.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million
Credit of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 22, 1977; Closing
Date; June 30, 1984
Most of the infrastructure being constructed under the project has
been completed and is being handed over to the Yemeni organizations, about
one year behind schedule. Four of the six vacancies for expatriate project
staff have been filled. Some problems are being encountered in completing
the development of and in operating the dairy and livestock fattening farms.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 26-                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: blay 16, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All contracts for supply of materials and construction of the water
and sewerage systems have been awardled and construction of the water system
has been completed.  Implementation of the sewerage component of the project
is behind schedule because of a change in the location of the treatment plant
site, and resulting delay in award of civil works contract. The closing date
was extended to allow time for a site survey and for new engineering designs
to be drawn up for the installation of an extended aeration type of activated
sludge treatment plant.  If satisfactory progress is made, a further
extension will be considered.
Cr. No. 794-YAR - Third Highway Project; $11.5 million Credit of May 31,
1978; Effectiveness Date: April 4, 1979; Closing Date; M[arch 31, 1984
Implementation is about two years behind schedule due to initial
delays in arranging co-financing and subsequent difficulties in implementing
a suitable training program. The road overlay construction has been com-
pleted. Most of the equipment provided under the project has arrived and
construction of three of the five weighing stations has been completed.
A comprehensive training program is being implemented and is producing good
results. Contract negotiations with consultants selected to carry out the
road master plan study are being finalized. The credit's closing date has
been extended to March 31, 1984 to allow for the training program and the
road master plan study to be implemented. A further extension may be
necessary to allow for completion of the project and will be considered if
satisfactory progress is made.
Cr. No. 805-YAR - Second Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima); $10.5
million Credit of May 31, 1978; Effectiveness Date: March 5, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
After an initial slow start, progress on all components relating to
Wadi Rima has picked up with some of them nearing completion. Most of the
project staff for agricultural extension and engineering have been recruited
and the agricultural extension service is proceeding satisfactorily. Work on
the village water supply schemes is expected to start shortly. Some of the
buildings for TDA's headquarters in Hodeida are in use. The remaining
buildings are expected to be completed by mid-1983.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Cr. No. 837-YAR - Power Distribution Project; $10.0 million Credit of
July 25, 1978; Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 184
Implementation is over two years behind schedule due to initial
delays in closing the financing gap and in awarding major contracts for the
supply of equipment and materials. The study for the National Electrification
Program (NEP) has been completed. YGEC's training center is operating but
experiencing some problems relating to lack of text books. Training abroad
is proceeding but in view of the lack of qualified Yemeni staff not at an
adequate pace to meet YGEC's pressing need for trained staff.
Cr. No. 880-YAR - Third Tihama Development Project (Wadi Mawr); $15.0
million Credit and $3.0 million Special Action Credit of April 20, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
After a delay in declaring the credit effective and selecting
project consultants for engineering work, implementation is now underway.
The design of major engineering works is now progressing at a fast pace and
the first major construction contract is expected to be awarded by mid-1983.
Farm management consultants have been appointed and a project manager is ex-
pected to be appointed by the end of May 1983. The first batch of extension
agents have been assigned to the project area. Procurement of equipment for
agricultural services has been initiated. The consultants on the production
components of the Surdud Farm have been appoined and mobilized.
Cr. No. 915-YAR - Third Education Project; $10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: December 21, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1986
All project institutions have been completed and classes have com-
menced. Civil works equipment procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
Except for the Ministry of Education, all technical assistance programs under
the project are proceeding satisfactorily. The Ministry of Education has now
prepared a detailed program and will start sending its fellows abroad for the
coming 1983/84 academic year. The pre-investment studies for the development
of a post-secondary education system have been completed.
Cr. No. 950-YAR - Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $12.0
million Credit of November 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: January 13, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Tardy preparation of the hydrological study and tender documents
together with slippage of the well drilling program have delayed the water
component. Drilling has been completed in Ibb and in Dhamar. The tariff



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
study has been completed. Because of the delay in appointing the civil works
consultants, project implementation is more than two years behind schedule
and, based on revised tender prices, there will be a considerable cost
overrun. The Government is seeking supplemental financing to cover the
resulting gap.
Cr. No. 978-YAR - Fourth Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima II); $5.5
million Credit of April 21, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
After a slow start, the major civil works in the wadi have started
and are making good progress. Partial operation of the irrigation structures
should start by the end of 1983 and the works should be completed by mid-1984.
The sand dune stabilization program has not been started due to difficulties
in the recruitment of staff.  The staff required for the rural uplift program
have been appointed.
Cr. No. 1025-YAR - Fisheries Development Project; $17.0 million Credit of
June 6, 1980; Effectiveness Date; April 14, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
Fishing trials are underway but project management continues to be
weak, due to inexperience, inadequate support staff, insufficient working
capital and lack of equipment. Certain non-project activities of the General
Corporation for the Development of FPish Resources (GCDFR) threaten to conflict
with project objectives. An IDA mission is planning to visit YAR in May 1983
to address these issues and to review implementation of the trial fishing
program.
Cr. No. 1067-YAR - Second Southern Uplands Rural Development Project-
$17.0 Million Credit of November 24, 1980; Effectiveness Date: June 16,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Agricultural extension, rural water supply construction and
provision of agricultural credit, started under the First Southern Uplands
project, are expanded to cover most of the provinces of the region. Most key
staff have been appointed. Expansion of agricultural extension services is
progressing on schedule, although additional local staff are required. The
construction of water supply schemes and buildings is progressing satisfac-
torily.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Cr. No. 1102-YAR - Regional Electrification Project; $12.0 million Credit
of May 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: December 15, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Contracts for the supply of materials, the construction and
erection of project facilities and with consultants for detailed engineering
and construction supervision have been awarded.  Project implementation is
underway but is about six months behind schedule because of delays in making
the materials supply contract effective. The project manager and his
assistants have been appointed.
Cr. No. 1122-YAR - Industrial Development Project; $12.0 million Credit of
May 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: November 13, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
The general manager and the development banking adviser have been
appointed and project implementation has improved considerably since early
1982. IBY has relaxed several of its lending policies to make them more
attractive to potential investors, and it has strengthened its project pipe-
line. An IBY branch office has been opened in Taiz. IBY has prepared an
arrears control program and arrears have begun to decline.
Cr. No. 1202-YAR Sanaa Urban Development Project; $15.0 million Credit of
February 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date: May 7, 1982; Closing Date;
December 31, 1987
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Some key
staff for the Project Implementation Unit have been appointed and the Unit is
operational. The recruitment of counterpart staff is proceeding satisfacto-
rily. Contracts for infrastructure works have been awarded and the contrac-
tor for the sites and services component was appointed in February 1983.
Construction work started in March 1983.
Cr. No. 1203-YAR Fourth Education Project; $12.0 million Credit of
February 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date: June 15, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Project implementation is underway. The Education Research and
Development Center (ERDC) is now operating in temporary premises made avail-
able to it. Appointment of staff to the ERDC is proceeding. Construction
of the ERDC complex and boarding facilities for existing teacher training
institutes have begun. The designs for the first phase of the Engineering
Faculty facilities have been completed and construction work for the Civil
Engineering Department is expected to begin in the summer of 1983.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Cr. No. 1216-YAR Petroleum and Geothermal Exploration Promotion Project;
$2.0 million Credit of April 9, 1982; Effectiveness Date: September 29,
1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985'
Implementation of the pipeline feasibility study and of the
geothermal exploration promotion components are progressing well and on
schedule. The petroleum exploration promotion consultants have now been
appointed and are expected to start work shortly.
Cr. No.1259-YAR Agricultural Research and Development Project; $6.0 million
Credit of August 11, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing
Date; June 30, 1988
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.
Cr. No. 1267-YAR Fourth Highway Project; $7.0 million Credit of August 11,
1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.
Cr. No. 1295-YAR Health Project; $10.5 million Credit of September 30, 1982;
Effectiveness Date: January 28, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Project implementation is underway. All staff for the Project
Implementation Unit have been appointed and have taken up their posts.
Designs for civil works are being finalized.
Cr. No. 1308-YAR Agricultural Credit Project; $8.0 million Credit of
March 31, 1983; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: June
30, 1987
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
THIRD POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare            Nine months (January
project:                                  to September 1982)
(b)  The agencies which prepared the project:  YGEC with the assistance
of consultants
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA:          February 1982
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission;   October 15, 1982
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations;         April 1, 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:              September 1983
Section II: Special Implementation Action by IDA
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i)  conclusion of firm co-financing arrangements
(para. 53);
(ii)  conclusion of subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and YGEC (para. 54); and
(iii)  Appointment by YGEC of consultants to assist it
in the formulation and implementation of a
financial recovery plan (para. 42), and
computerization of its accounting and billing
operations (para. 44).



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Other Conditions:
(i) appointment, by January 1, 1984, of consultants
for construction supervision (para. 56);
(ii) preparation of improved construction standards
for low-voltage systems installed by private
agencies (para. 31);
(iii) carrying out of a load research and consumer
reclassification study and implementation of a
tariff structure related to economic cost of
supply (para. 39);
(iv) preparation of a ten-year investment program and
cost estimates, based on a review of past studies
(para. 37); and
(v) attainment of agreed financial performance
targets (para. 41).



t L;'N. T.AL <,T,  \ SAU DI   A RA B I A                       YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A>s\t >  "e5t*   '8             NDbabl n                                                 THIRD  POWER  PROJECT
V   >' '  e  1 ' '       0                /L         \'y'7 '3.r".'Q                                                       STEAlPO CSER PLA  PLO 'ISIS
*  AA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.  ~~~           ~            ~             ~            ~1A                        I-1 N       -T
.1  X   :    4z<.E .           S5A       | \I     - -                                                A OIror NEAMUWRl ONS,LL CNTNA CIO
~~~~~~~{c )                                       I                     -                                 E AL     PIINNAI,E_>g(\\?~~ -w@@@@nRPSAN-S E  O N  LSTeANIS KS
I~~~~~~ (                   '                     ,'           /4                                        *  AN2S.SIO LI INEuulh/r   A NSL
r   ''Kb!xr                                                    >         2so'/                                     .," ST2RASI INCNE  Lb   A'A-
I\AI &:aS                                                                  TANS 7       T _
N                                                                        ")          S        "l:fQ                    2d      C       L     0  M
__~~~ L                                                                                                                                    J    !z< '  Isa   _E%~
"K '  Ala a,  FN ,  .     -  "''<  D o2'K-=q  ='/ 
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                I Ff%  S. 
Spelkh                    < fA                 .               ,    d-"-- -                                                               --
'K                                                                                                    7~~~~~~~~~~~~7
E T H I O~~~ Pl. I                       A z   .... -_v_n>
/ ~~~~~.    Z.b                  -u7WRW,  en n
S boss  'KDNssIEsS    E'0  '                                                                 boua.D'                        m _
ThlS,4140                                         K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
N 5POPLE'S   DEMOCRATIC   REPUBLIC   OP   YEMEN
Al Mokh.As,dl'
.   DJ I BOUTI                                                                                                                                                 c I
/oM      %            t                                                                             *,                          62 5'



I



k.CEtSr.ON.  PAr  t-                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YEMEN   ARAB   REPUBLIC
pAcroc                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~IDA-ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
SAUD  ARADIA                                                                                                                                      P ~~RCECITS
DS,-tpr,-F.
It  G- cjari  esarh  eeer
"                                                                     a       0 reonstret err Forms~~~~~~~~~~~~~F,h
c  j                                                                        -'-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H gh.oas
~~~~t                                                                           Rawer~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P. Stations
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~Worer Suppip
Ar  0                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~Port De-elP-ret
PXISTING FEATURES
t'Iotioeal Top tal,
rHJ-                                                                                     ELEVATIOde      t-
Rh-~h, , -   --;~--:/_,_                             e'7        Bw3 Poesa   oodre
20                'hr-                   "-       t''TAR~'                        --   etc-ca'M Oolbcooe
MAHW~~~~~4'~                                  - t-Adr
timlIA ~        ~       ~                    7,'                                                                        ______-_
Pr   Hl                              I                                                              EEVTIO  (etrr
O              ~                                 (5jrp4IR mk
~~crr                                 -          '~k                                                                     1500
Rho  aoe                                   y                                                                            300t
hA HWEtT      F~  -~4VAK C -Mah
/ S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ED
p  Srdadpc              7"                          Bohiol                               I~F
HODEIGA  o  -  SAke                                                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~PM 1.A         1-
RE~~~~~~ ~~~~                                                     I                                                                     -'--or~~~~~~~~~~~Z-
4e~~~~~~~~ 



