OFFICIAL
DOUMENTS       REDIT NUMBER 1361 YAR
Project Agreement
(Third Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
YEMEN GENERAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
Dated                       l      , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1361 YAR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and YEMEN GENERAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION (herein-
after called YGEC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Yemen Arab Republic (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seventeen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 17,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that YGEC
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and YGEC, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to YGEC on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS YGEC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. YGEC shall carry out Parts A and B of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with


﻿-2-
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices.
Section 2.02. In order to facilitate the proper coordination
of the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project, YGEC shall
maintain the Project Unit with facilities, powers, organization,
staff and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. In order to assist YGEC in the preparation of
plans, specifications and bidding documents for, and the supervi-
sion of the installation works, under Part A of the Project and
in carrying out Part B of the Project, YGEC shall employ, in
accordance with the details of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
such consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for Part A
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to
this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) YGEC undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by YGEC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) YGEC shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the purposes of Parts A and B of the
Project.
Section 2.06. (a) YGEC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for Parts A and B of the Project, and any material modifications


﻿-3-
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) YGEC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A and B of the
Project (including the cost thereof and the benefits to be
derived therefrom), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in
Parts A and B of the Project; (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in Part A of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning Parts A and B of the Project, their
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived there-
from, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and ser-
vices financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by YGEC of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, thE name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later th-in six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Associa-
tion and YGEC, YGEC shall prepare and furnish to the Association
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of Parts A and B of the Project, their cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived therefrom, the performance by YGEC and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) YGEC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, pro-
perty and equipment of YGEC and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 2.07. YGEC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, YGEC shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,


﻿-4-
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) YGEC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts A and B of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) YGEC shall promptly inform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the pro-
gress of Parts A and B of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by YGEC of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of YGEC
Section 3.01. YGEC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. YGEC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and re-
newals thereof,. all in accordance with sound engineering, finan-
cial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. YGEC shall take out and maintain with respons-
ible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. YGEC shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿- 5-
Section 4.02. YGEC shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statemenLs (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, YGEC shall, from time to time, take all such measures
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or
levels of its tariffs) as shall be required to produce:
(i) gross revenues from all sources (A) equivalent to
not less than 90% for its 1984 fiscal year and
100% for its 1985 fiscal year, of the        total
operating expenses of YGEC, and (B) for each of
its fiscal years thereafter, adequate to enable it
to meet the requirements set forth in subparagraph
(ii) of this paragraph; and
(ii) an annual return of not less than 3% of the
average current net value of YGEC's fixed assets
in operation for each of its 1986, 1987 and 1988
fiscal years, 5% for its 1989 fiscal year, 6% for
its 1990 fiscal year, and 8% for its 1991 fiscal
year and for each of its fiscal years thereafter.
(b) Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, YGEC
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by YGEC and satisfac-
tory to the Association, review with the Borrower the adequacy of
its tariffs and the measures needed to meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of the next


﻿-6-
following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Association, by
December 31 in each such year, the results of such review upon
its completion.
(c) If any such review shall show that YGEC would not be
able to meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this
Section in the course of YGEC's fiscal year covered by such
review, YGEC shall, with the concurrence of the Borrower pursuant
to Section 4.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, promptly
take all the necessary measures, satisfactory to the Association
in order to meet the said requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "gross revenues from all sources" means
the sum of revenues from all sources related to
YGEC's operations and net non-operating income;
(ii) The term "total operating expenses" means the sum
of all expenses related to YGEC's operations,
including all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes
but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
For the purposes hereof, the term "debt" shall
have the meaning assigned to it in Section 4.05
(b) (i) of this Agreement and shall be deemed to
be incurred as set forth in Section 4.05 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement;
(iii) The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
YGEC's net operating income for the fiscal year in
question by one-half of the sum of the current net
value of YGEC's fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that fiscal year;
(iv) The   term   "net  operating  income" means   gross
revenues from all sources related to YGEC's
electricity operations less all expenses related
to   YGEC's  electricity   operations,   including
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes or
any payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
depreciation. Interest and other charges on debt
shall not be deducted from gross revenues;
(v) The term "current net value of YGEC's fixed assets
in operation" means the gross value of YGEC's


﻿-7-
fixed assets in operation less the amount of
accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to
time in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, YGEC shall apply, from January 1, 1985, the fuel adjust-
ment clause, developed pursuant to Section 3.05 (a) (iii) of the
Development Credit Agreement (Second Power Project) dated May 15,
1981 between the Borrower and the Association, to cover all
changes in its own fuel costs as they are incurred.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, YGEC shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of YGEC shows that the projected
internal cash generation of YGEC for each fiscal year during the
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the
projected debt service requirement of YGEC in such year on all
debt of YGEC including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of YGEC
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
(A) under a loan contract or agreement or other
instrument providing for such debt or further
modification of its terms of payment, on the
date   of   such   contract,   agreement    or
instrument; and
(B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee has
been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt shall be outstanding.
(iii) The term "internal cash generation of YGEC" means
gross revenues of YGEC from all sources, adjusted
to take account of the YGEC's rates in effect at
the time of the incurrence of debt even though
they were not in effect during the twelve-month


﻿-8-
period to which such revenues relate, less all
operating expenses of YGEC, including expenses
accountable to administration, maintenance and
taxes (or payments in lieu of taxes), but before
provision for depreciation of assets and interest
and other charges on debt.
(iv) The term    "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sink-
ing fund payments, if any) of, and interest and
other charges on,'debt.
(v) The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by YGEC and satisfactory to the Associa-
tion in the fiscal year in which the debt in ques-
tion is to be incurred, provided that no event has
occurred since such preparation which has, or may
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a
material adverse effect on the financial condition
or future operating results of YGEC.
(vi) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of currency of the
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the pre-
vailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, with absence of such rate, on the basis
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
Section 4.06. YGEC shall, by December 31, 1984, take all
action necessary on its part to ensure that all amounts due to it
on account of its electricity services to its customers are paid
within 60 days of the date on which YGEC bills its customers for
such services.
Section 4.07. YGEC shall: (a) afford the Association a rea-
sonable and timely opportunity to exchange views with YGEC on the
conclusions and recommendations of the studies to be carried out
under Part B (1), (2) and (3) of the Project as they become
available;


﻿- 9 -
(b) on the basis of the above and taking into consideration
the Association's views on the matter, take all action necessary
to carry out the recommendations of said studies in accordance
with such implementation plans, including time schedules, as
shall be satisfactory to the Association; and
(c) except on the basis of the recommendations of the study
under Part B(1) of the Project to be carried out pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section, maintain the level of its tariffs
in effect as of October 31, 1982, other than for the introduction
of new interim tariffs acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of YGEC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
YGEC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿- 10 -
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For YGEC:
Yemen General Electricity Corporation
P.O. Box 178
Sana'a, Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:                    Telex:
ALKAHRABA                         2275 YEGEC-YE
Sana'a
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of YGEC may be taken or executed by the
Managing Director of YGEC or such other person or persons as YGEC
shall designate in writing, and YGEC shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Reg onal Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
YEMEN GENERAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
By .4
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and installation
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the current
edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, YGEC shall prepare and forward
to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. YGEC shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 13 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less each and in the aggregate not exceeding the
equivalent of $400,000, may be procured through limited interna-
tional tendering procedures on the basis of evaluations and
comparisons of bids invited from a list of at least three quali-
fied suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance
with procedures set forth in Part A of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 1.2 and 3.9 thereof) and paragraph A.3 of
this Schedule.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more each:
(a) Before bids are invited, YGEC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, YGEC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consul-
tants referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform YGEC and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.


﻿- 14 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, YGEC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform YGEC and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in.cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, YGEC shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform YGEC and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Consultants
The following consultants shall be employed by the dates
specified below pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement:
(1) Consultants to formulate and implement   (September 30, 1983)
a comprehensive plan for improving
YGEC's organization, management, staffing
and financial operations
(2) Consultants to carry out a program to    (September 30, 1983)
computerize YGEC's accounting and
billing operations
(3) Consultants for construction              January 1, 1984
supervision of Project facilities
(4) Consultants to formulate YGEC's           March 31, 1984
expansion program to year 1993
(5) Consultants to carry out load research    July 1, 1984
study


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    / A±L day of      Ad,
19 8   .
FOR SECRETARY.


