OFFICIAL
'OCUMENTS     CREDIT NUMBER 1361 YAR
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Power Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                  j'7     ,1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1361 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1983, between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (hereinafter cal ed the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from other sources of
finance a loan or loans in an aggregate amount equivalent to
about nine million dollars ($9,000,000) to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(C) Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by the
Yemen General Electricity Corporation (hereinafter called YGEC),
a public corporation established and operating under the laws of
the Borrower, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to YGEC part of the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided and the proceeds
of the loan or loans referred to under Recital (B) of this Pre-
amble on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement and of YGEC under the Project
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and YGEC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and YGEC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and YGEC pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "Project Unit" means the Project Unit established pur-
suant to Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement (Second Power
Project) dated May 15, 1981 between the Association and YGEC, and
to be maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Project Agree-
ment;
(d) "MEW" means the Ministry of Electricity and Water of
the Borrower, or any successor thereto; and
(e) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepar-
ation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated March 17, 1983 and March 23, 1983
between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventeen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 17,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended


﻿- 3 -
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Proj-
ect Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Proj-
ect Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;   (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4


﻿-4-
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay tLe principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1993, and ending December 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the
Project through MEW with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative and public utility
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
YGEC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appro-
priate to enable YGEC to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall relend the equivalent in its cur-
rency (determined as of the date of withdrawal from the Credit
Account) of the proceeds of the Credit (except for the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category (3) of the
table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement) to YGEC under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower


﻿- 5 -
and YGEC under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association, including, inter alia, appropriate
provisions for the payment by YGEC of interest on the principal
amount so relent and outstanding from time to time at a rate of
not less than 9% per annum and for the repayment by YGEC of the
principal amount so relent over a period of 20 years, including a
grace period of five years.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist in carrying out Part C
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, by March 31, 1984,
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
such consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
(b) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for
Part C of the Project, the Association may publish a description
thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom the con-
tract was awarded and the contract price.
(c) The Borrower shall cooperate fully with such consul-
tants in the performance of their services for Part C of the
Project and make available to them all information relevant to
said Part of the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall cause such consultants promptly to
furnish to the Association copies of the documents and technical
standards prepared by them for Part C of the Project, including
reports and drafts thereof, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to record the progress of Part C of


﻿-6-
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect, in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices, the expenditures incurred by the Borrower for Part C
of the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Credit therefor
and shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect any
relevant records and documents.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) upon completion of
Part C of the Project, consult with the Association on the recom-
mendations and conclusions relating thereto and, in agreement
with the Association, initiate the implementation of a program to
apply suitable technical standards for the construction of pri-
vately owned low-voltage generation and distribution systems in
light of such recommendations and conclusions; and
(b) by December 31, 1984, take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of such staff and other resources
as the Borrower and the Association shall consider necessary for
the purposes, to cause and enable NEW's Technical Department
effectively to monitor the development of privately owned
electricity generation and supply systems and the application of
the technical standards referred to under paragraph (a) of this
Section.
Section 4.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall take or cause to be taken from time to time all such action
(incuding, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or:
levels of YGEC's tariffs) as shall be required to enable YGEC to
(i) comply with the provisions of Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of the
Project Agreement; and (ii) implement the recommendations of the
studies referred to in, and in accordance with, the provisions
of, Section 4.07 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.04. (a) To the extent that YGEC's revenues would
not be sufficient for the purposes stated herein, the Borrower
shall provide YGEC with all such additional funds, in amounts and
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, as may
be required to enable YGEC to cover at all times its cash
operating costs and interest chargeable to operations.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:


﻿- 7 -
(i) The   term  "revenues" means   the  sum  of YGEC's
revenues   from  all   sources  related   to   its
electricity operations and other net non-operating
income.
(ii) The term "cash operating costs" means the sum of
all expenses related to YGEC's electricity opera-
tions, including maintenance and administration
(excluding   depreciation   and   other   non-cash
operating charges) and all taxes or payments in
lieu of taxes.
(iii) The term "interest chargeable to operations" means
the total interest payable on YGEC's debt, less
interest during construction which is capitalized
in   accordance   with   appropriate    accounting
practices.
(iv) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of YGEC
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(v) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
(A) under a loan contract or agreement or .other
instrument providing for such debt or for the
modification of its terms of payment, on the
date of such contract, agreement or instru-
ment; and
(B). under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee has
been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(vi) Whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt or, in the absence
of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
acceptable to the Association.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) YGEC shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that YGEC will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) Law No. 12 of 1975, as amended by Law No. 26 of 1981,
of the Borrower pertaining to the establishment and operations of
YGEC shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
YGEC to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of YGEC or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) YGEC shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been undertaken
whereby any of -the property of YGEC shall or may be distributed
among its creditors.
(f) The agreement, or any of the agreements, providing for
the loan or loans referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble
to this Agreement, shall have failed to become effective by
April 30, 1984, or such later date as the Association may estab-
lish; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement and of YGEC
under the Project Agreement.
(g) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:


﻿-9-
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been sus-
pended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement pro-
viding therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the   Association  that:   (A)   such  suspension,
cancellation,   termination   or   prematuring  is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to per-
form any of its obligations under such agreement;
and (B) adequate funds for the Project are avail-
able to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement and of YGEC
under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower;
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur;
(c) the event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿- 10 -
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of YGEC have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental and corporate action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and YGEC, respectively, have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
and corporate action.
(c) all arrangements, satisfactory .to the Association, have
been made by the Borrower to ensure the provision of the loan or
loans referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agree-
ment; and
(d) consultants to assist YGEC in carrying out Part B (2)
and (4) of the Project have been employed by YGEC in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by YGEC, and is legally binding upon YGEC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and YGEC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and YGEC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date 04        t                is hereby
specified for the purposes of ection 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.03, 4.04 and 5.02 (b) of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the-earlier.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Development and Chairman of
the Central Planning Organization of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Central Planning Organization
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:                        Telex:
CENPLAN                            2266 CENPLAN YE
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By   /
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Equipment and             9,633,000          100% of foreign
materials                                   expenditures
(2) Installation              3,762,000          100% of foreign
works                                       expenditures
(3) Consultants'                 78,000          100%
services for
Part C of the
Project
(4) Other Consulants'
services
(a) for Part B of
the Project,
except Part B
(1) thereof,
and for engi-
neering and
construction        1,926,000           100% of foreign
supervision                            expenditures.
(b)  for Part B             69,000         100%
(1) of the
Project


﻿-14-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5) Refunding of                734,000         Amount due under
Project Prepara-                            Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advance                                of this Agreement
(6) 'Inallocated              1,298,000
TOTAL         17,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expend-
itures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any-country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then


﻿- 15 -
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
The carrying out by YGEC, through, inter alia, the provision
and installation of the equipment included in the Annex to this
Schedule, of the following:
(1) installation of a distribution network in the areas of
Badan, Al Misrakh and Marawiah and the connection
thereof to YGEC main grid;
(2) expansion of the distribution network in the area of
Bani Hushaysh;
(3) upgrading and expansion of the distribution networks in
the cities of Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah; and
(4)  construction of subtransmission lines to connect indus-
trial consumers within and in the vicinities of the
cities of Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah.
Part B:
(1) The carrying out of a load research and consumer re-
classification study to develop a restructured tariff
base for YGEC designed to reflect the economic cost of
electricity supply.
(2) The development and implementation of a comprehensive
plan to improve the organization, management, staffing
and financial operations of YGEC.
(3) The preparation of a unified and balanced expansion
program for YGEC through the year 1993, including cost
estimates therefor.
(4) The carrying out of a program to computerize YGEC's
accounting and billing dperations.


﻿- 17 -
(5) The carrying out of a program to upgrade the technical
skills of YGEC's staff through the provision of
fellowships and on-the-job training.
(6) The provision of appropriate support to strengthen the
Project Unit as required to facilitate the proper
execution of the Project.
Part C:
Development and application by NEW of appropriate technical
standards for the construction of privately owned low-voltage
generation and distribution system.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 18 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Part  A   of   the  Project   includes  the   provision   and
installation of about:
(a) 930 km of medium and low voltage lines;
(b) 33 substations for a total capacity of 90 MVA:
(c)  300 distribution transformers for a total capacity of
14 MVA;
(d) 15,500 meters and boards; and
(e)  1,300 streetlights.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the      ;     day of        , ,
198,-3
OR SECRETARY


