EDocunX al} .tt
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL 'iSE ONLY
Report Niv.  2to69 -MAIL
MLDWIVES
FISHIERIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Mfay 1, 1979
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture D Divisioni
This docurnent has a resiricted' distribution and mav be used by recipicats only in the viezfcrnia:Inc? cA
their official duties. Its co%ierjts may nov otherwise be disclosed without World Sank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT 1/
US$1.00        MRs3.93
MRsl.O0    =   US$0.25    [Official Accounting Rate]
USS1.00   =   MRs8.80
MRs'.OO   =   US$0.11      [Commercial Foreign Exchange Rate]
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
DPW      -   Port Commission and Public Works Department
DTFI     -   Department for Tourism and Foreign Investment
GOM      -   Government of Maldives
GOPA     -   Gesellschaft fur Organization, Planung
und Ausbildung MBH
GT       -   Gross Tons
HP       -   Horsepower
KFAED    -   Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
LOA      -   Length Over All
}BY      -   Male Boat Yard
MOF      -   Ministry of Fisheries
S1PA     -   Ministry of Provincial Affairs
MRC      -   Maintenance and Repair Center
MT       -   Metric Tons
PCC      -   Project Coordinating Committee
STO      -   State Trading Organization
TDF      -   Treasury Division of the Department of Finance
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Programme
MALDIVES FISCAL YEAR
Equal to Calendar Year
1/   The official accounting rate is used by the Government of Maldives (GOM),
in particular the State Trading Organization (STO) for the export of fish
and the import of most essential commodities, such as rice, wheat flour,
*           sugar and oil.  It is fixed to the US dollar and has not changed since
1967. The commercial exchange rate is determined in the open market and
fluctuates relative to the US dollar and other major currencies. In this
report the official accounting rate is being used, unless indicated
otherwise.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION  .......................................                       1
II.    BACKGROUND  .........................................                        1
III.    THE FISHERIES  SECTOR  ...............................                       2
Geography  .....................................                     2
Fish Landings  .................................                     2
Resources  ...3..................... ....... -                       3
Fishing Techniques  ............................                     3
Fish Marketing  and Infrastructure  ....                .........    4
Fish Prices  ...................................                     5
Fishing Vessels  ...............................                     6
Fuel  Supplies  .................................                    7
Mechanization of Fishing Vessels  ....                 ..........    7
Maintenance and Repair Centers  ....                 ............    8
Fisheries Administration  ......................                     8
Aids  to Navigation  ............................                    8
IV.    THE PROJECT  ........................................                       8
Objectives  and Major Features  ....                .............    8
Vessel Mechanization  ..........................                     9
Maintenance  and Repair Centers  ....                ............    9
Navigational Aids  .............................    10
Technical  Services  ............................    10
Technical Assistance  ..........................    10
V.    PROJECT COSTS,  FINANCING,  DISBURSEMENTS,  AUDITS AND
ACCOUNTS  .........................................    11
Cost Estimates  .......             .........................    11
Financing  ..........           ...........................    12
Project  Implementation  .....              ...................    13
Lending Terms  and Conditions  ....               ..............    13
This report is based on findings of an IDA mission which visited the Maldives
in October 1978. The mission consisted of Messrs. G. van Santen (IDA)
and 0. de Graaf, C. Hamlin, R. Kinney and M. West (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
Procurement  ...................................    14
Disbursement  ..................................    15
Accounts and Audits  ...........................    15
VI.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ........................    15
Coordination and Implementation  ....               ...........    15
Fuel Supply  ...................................    17
Monitoring and Evaluation .....................    17
Reporting  .....................................    17
Technical Assistance  ..........................    18
VII.    PROJECT PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES  ....                 .......   18
Production  ....................................    18
Marketing  .....................................    18
Prices  ........................................    18
VIII.   FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  ....................    19
Financial Analysis  ............................    19
Cost Recovery of Investment in Engines and
Aids to Navigation  ..........................    19
Economic Analysis  .............................    19
Project Beneficiaries  .........................   21
Risks  .........................................    21
Environmental Effects  .........................   21
IX.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ....................................    21
ANNE  S
1.    Fish Landings,  Export and Consumption (1967-1976)
2.    Fishing Vessels
3.    Project Cost Estimates
4.    Financial Analysis and Cash Flow Projections
5.    Economic Analysis
6.    Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements
7.    Related Documents and Data in Project File
CHARTS
Ministry of Fisheries (19699)
Government of Maldives (19700)
Project Implementation Schedule (19772)
Fishing Vessels (19717, 19716, 19715)
MAPS
Maldives (13994R)



MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      On January 13, 1978, the Maldives became a member of the World Bank
and IDA. A reconnaisance mission visited the country later in 1978, and con-
cluded that the fisheries sector would be an appropriate area for Bank Group
financial assistance. With technical assistance from the Gesellschaft fur
Organization, Planung und Ausbildung MBH (GOPA), financed by the Kuwait Fund
for Arab Economic Development (KFAED), the Maldives had already taken steps
for preparation of a project to be financed with external resources. The
draft preparation report submitted by GOPA recommended mechanization of the
traditional fishing vessels, a frozen fish export scheme, development of
offshore resources and a substantial technical assistance program. An IDA
mission comprising G. van Santen (IDA), 0. de Graaf, C. Hamlin, R. Kinney and
M. West (Consultants) visited the Maldives from September 25 to October 20,
1978, and concluded that a fishing fleet mechanization project would be suit-
able for IDA financing. This report is based on the findings of that mission.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      The Maldives are situated southwest of Sri Lanka; its atolls form
a double chain that stretches about 800 km from north to south and 125 km
across. Total land area is about 300 sq. km. Twenty-five percent of the
Maldives population of 144,000 1/ live in the capital, Male, the rest occupy
220 of the total of about 1,100 islands.  Population is growing at an annual
rate of almost 3.7%.  A per capita income estimated at US$77 in 1977 2/ places
the Maldives among the 25 least developed nations.
2.02      Fishing is the mainstay of the Maldivian economy.  It is the prin-
cipal source of cash income for people living outside Male; an estimated 80%
of the male Maldivian work force of 44,000 is directly or indirectly engaged
in fisheries. Fish exports are the principal source of foreign exchange.
Both shipping and tourism are important additional sources of foreign exchange.
Since 1972, when the first tourist hotel was built, tourism has developed into
a major industry; in 1976 more than 28,000 tourists visited the country. The
Government owns the Maldive Shipping Line (MSL) consisting of a fleet of 29
ships, which mainly operate in the Indian Ocean. MSL also participates in
several foreign shipping companies. In recent years MSL has transferred large
profits to the Government. Due to the high alkaline content of the soil and
limited rainfall, agricultural production is limited and meets only 10% of
1/   Preliminary 1978 census results.
2/   IMF estimate.



- 2 -
food needs; all major staples other than fish are imported. Importing is
done by the State Trading Organization (STO), which also handles 95% of the
country's exports. The current trade balance has been negative in recent
years, but this has been more than compensated for by receipts from tourism
and the profit transfers of MSL.
2.03      The commercial foreign exchange rate of the Maldivian rupee is deter-
mined in the free market (US$1.00 = MRs 8.80). 1/ STO applies an official
accounting rate (US$1.00 = MRs 3.93) for the determination of domestic prices
of its exports and imports. STO has a virtual monopoly of imports of essen-
tial foodstuffs, and because of its use of the official accounting rate,
subsidizes the price of imported food. These subsidies are financed largely
by applying the same official accounting rate to fish exports by STO, which is
equivalent to taxing fishermen to finance subsidies on imported foodstuffs
for the general public.
III. THE FISHERIES SECTOR
Geography
3.01      The Maldives lies between 7 N and 1 S latitude and between 72 0E and
74' E longitude.  It consists of 19 atolls surrounded by extensive coral reef
systems. Inside the atolls water depths rarely surpass 100 meters; outside
the atoll reefs there is a steep dropoff to over 2,000 meters. The climate
in the Maldives is tropical and is dominated by two monsoons; the southwest
monsoon from May to October, which brings rain and occasional strong winds
and the northeast monsoon from December to April, which brings fair weather.
Fish Landing
3.02      The total marine catch, which is meticulously recorded in the
MaLdives, shows substantial annual fluctuations. The average annual catch
over the 1967-1977 period was 27.9 thousand metric tons (MT); the actual
catch fluctuated between 22.6 thousand MT in 1968 and 35.5 thousand MT in
1971. In 1977 the catch was 26.7 thousand MT. Over this 11 year period the
annual catch rose 18.4%, or 1.5% per year. Over the same period the number
of pole and line vessels, which catch well over 80% of the total Maldive
catch, increased by 25% to 2,150. The slow growth of the catch is mainly due
to a reduction in the number of days fished by sailing vessels due to market-
ing problems (see para 3.13).
3.03      The catch is not evenly distributed over the Maldives; each atoll
has its distinct season(s) and catch characteristics and only a few atolls
sustain regular catches throughout the year. Approximately 75% of the total
Maldivian catch comprises skipjack tuna (Katsuwonus pelamis) and yellowfin
tuna (Thunnus albacares).
1/   October 1978.



-3-
Resources
3.04      Research in the Indian Ocean suggests that skipjack appears throughout
the Indian Ocean. 1/ Skipjack larvae also occur over a wide oceanic area.
From the stomach contents of bill-fishes it has been observed that skipjack
juveniles occur more than ten times those of other tunas, and data from larval
occurrence suggest even more abundant resources. Migration patterns are not
precisely known, but there is no evidence that skipjack behavior in the Indian
Ocean is substantially different from skipjack behavior in the Pacific, where
smaller skipjack occurs in tropical waters migrating to colder waters north
and south of the equator, and finally returning to warmer waters to spawn.
The relatively small size of the Maldive skipjack also suggests that stocks
reside only temporarily in Maldive waters.  In brief, available evidence
indicates that Maldives skipjack is part of large migrating skipjack stocks in
the Indian Ocean, which are estimated to have a sustainable yield of several
hundred thousand tons per year. Present fishing efforts and the resulting
catch also suggest that resources in the Maldives are lightly exploited.
Fishing Techniques
3.05      Prevailing fishing techniques in the Maldives are the result of
hundreds of years of fishing experience and technique and vessel design are
well adapted to local conditions. Skipjack and jujvenile yellowfin tuna rarely
enter the lagoons, and fishing of these species takes place from the outer reef
to a maximum distance of 25 km seaward. Over 90% of the Maldives tuna catch
is caught by the pole and line method. More than 2,000 boats between 8 and 14
meters, both motorized and non-motorized, employ this method. Each pole and
line vessel has a baitwell, a part of the hull which can be flooded through
holes in the bottom, in which live baitfish are kept. To keep the bait alive,
the water in the baitwells is circulated by continuous bailing; some motorized
vessels employ pumps.
3.06      Fish suitable for use as live bait are found over or near coral
reefs. The baitfish should be hardy and should have the habit of diving
under the hull when released during fishing. In the Maldives baitfish include
Spratelloides japonicus, Dussumeria hasseltii and Chronis caerulis. Pole and
line vessels employ a crew of 8-13 people who start between 4 and 6 a.m. when
the vessel proceeds to the bait fishing grounds. To catch bait, the vessel
is anchored, coconut oil is spread on to the water to smooth the surface and
improve underwater viewing and a special fish paste is thrown in the water to
attract baitfish. When sufficient bait has gathered a fine mesh rectangular
net is lowered. The net is spread under the baitfish, and then raised quickly.
Fish so caught are released into the baitwell. Baitfishing continues until
several thousand fish are caught, which can take anything from 15 minutes to
7 hours.
1/   Richard S. Shomura and Richard N. Uchida, Pelagic Fishes and Fisheries
in the Indian Ocean (1976). In Project File.



3.07      After baitfishing, the vessel clears the reef and searches for tuna.
Skipjack and juvenile yellowfin schools can be seen when they break the surface
or "boil" the water.  Alternatively, the presence of tuna can be~ l      t:cl b,
spotting flocks of sea birds diving for small fish driven to the surface by
hungry tuna.
3.08      When a school of tuna is sighted, the boat is sailed up to and
slowly past the school and live bait is thrown out to the fish. The objec-
tive is to keep the boat moving and to get the school to follow. In addition,
two men spray water around the stern to attract fish. When successful, three
or four men start fishing with poles to which lines with barbless, baitless
hooks are attached.
3.09      When the tuna are in a feeding frenzy, they bite the hooks and are
pulled aboard in a carefully controlled way, so that the hook disengages just
before the fish are landed in the boat. The operation is repeated at great
speed and large catches can be taken in a short period. Baiting and searching
for fish schools takes most of the time spent in pole and line fishing. When
all bait has been used, the vessel returns to shore. The fish are stored in
the baitwell or on deck. No ice is carried on board, but the fish is kept
wet and covered from the sun to keep its temperature low.
3.10      Two other fishing methods are also employed, but catch volume is
limited. For many part-time fishermen, however, these fishing methods provide
additional income. Trolling, the most popular method, is done with a smaller
boat (up to 8 meters) and a crew of about 3. More than 3,000 of these boats
operate in the country. Each boat trails two baited lines approximately 45
meters long. The best fishing areas are on the outer edges of the fringing
reef near the passages in the lagoons. Catches are small and consist of tuna,
mackerel and dolphin fish species. Occasionally, sail and swordfish are taken.
Sharkfishing with a single drifting line is also practiced. Handlining for
reef fish is the other fishing method. Simple handlines are used with wire
and a single baited hook. Handlining is mainly done at night from anchored
boats close to the outer reef. Snappers, groupers, breams and small sharks
are caught by this method.
Fish Marketing and Infrastructure
3.11       In the past, fish exports consisted mainly of Maldive fish, a salted,
smoked and dried tuna product processed by fishermen and sold to Sri Lanka.
In 1971, exports of Maldive fish to Sri Lanka amounted to 27,700 MT fresh fish
equivalent or 78% of total fish production in that year. Since then, Sri Lanka
has gradually reduced these imports, citing foreign exchange shortages; and in
May 1978 exports to Sri Lanka virtually stopped. In 1972, GOM started to ex-
plore the possibilities of frozen fish exports. At present, three companies
operate fresh fish collection systems and freezing and cold storage facilities
in the Maldives; two are foreign companies CHOK6, Japan and ICP, Thailand) and
a joint venture (Maldive Nippon). Exports of frozen fish amounted to 1,100
MT in 1972; in 1977, 10,900 MT were exported, mainly to Japan, Mauritius and
the United States at a value of US$1.8 million, a nine-fold increase in five
years. In addition, small quantities of a smoked tuna product (Katsuo-bushi)



and canned tuna are sold to Japan and Europe, respectively. Recently, dried
fish and sharkfin were exported to Singapore. In 1977, fish worth more than
US$1.0 million was sold in that market.
3.12      Infrastructure for the fishing sector consists primarily of six
mother ve_,els, owned by the three companies, with a combined cold storage
capacity of 2,700 cubic meters and a daily freezing capacity of 160 tons.
A Korean company has applied to GOM for licenses to operate two additional
mother vessels. ICP operates one 30 ton cold store on Alifu atoll. Two
additional cold stores are being built with a capacity of 600 cubic meters
and a 25 ton daily freezing capacity. With these, total cold storage capa-
city can easily handle present exports. Frozen fish is exported with reefer
vessels owned by the companies. With increasing reefer vessel transport fre-
quencies, more than double the present exports can be handled by the present
mother vessels and cold stores under construction. Additional marketing
infrastucture is being planned, which might be financed by KFAED. There are
nine collector vessels of 10-20 GT operating at present, owned by HOKO and
ICP, and an additional 12 on order. Collector vessels are in short supply
and collection has been limited to the most promising fishing areas, concen-
trated in the northern part of the country. The lack of collector vessels
forces motorized vessels to leave their home base for extensive periods to
follow the mother vessels. The companies realize that collector vessels do
not cover the entire area, but prefer to concentrate on the most promising
areas. Maldive Nippon has operated a five-ton/day tuna cannery and a smoking
plant since 1977.
3.13      Mother vessels and collector vessels keep moving from one fishing
ground to another, and only motorized vessels are able to follow the vessels
and sell for export. Nonmotorized pole and line vessels, which until re-
cently operated for the Sri Lanka "Maldive fish" market or for local consump-
tion, have been forced to substantially reduce operations because of the lack
of marketing opportunities. They now operate largely for the local market,
but some have stopped operations altogether, pending motorization. Trolling
vessels, which until recently caught fish mainly for the local and Sri Lanka
markets, have started a rapidly expanding shark and whitefish fishery for
export. One cold store specializes in whitefish caught by local trolling
vessels for export to South East Asia.
Fish Prices
3.14      Prices paid to fishermen through STO for export fish are determined
during negotiations between GOM and the purchasing companies and are quoted in
US dollars. In 1978, skipjack prices paid by the companies ranged from US$192
to US$256 per MT for different sizes of fish and different species, up from
US$163 to US$230 in the previous year. In addition the companies pay US$20
per MT export duty to GOM. The fishermen deliver their skipjack to the col-
lector vessels where the fish is graded, weighed and receipted in the presence
of a representative from STO. STO in turn pays the fishermen in MRs at the
official accounting rate, which is tantamount to collecting 55% of the fisher-
men's gross earnings calculated at the commercial exchange rate.



- 6 -
3.15      The world catch of tuna totalled more than 1.8 million MT in 1977 of
which more than 0.7 million MT constituted skipjack. World trade in frozen
tuna averages over 0.5 million MT, half of which is skipjack. The tuna market
is highly competitive with numerous brokers and canning companies competing
for raw material. The demand for skipjack is strong and rising each year,
especially in the two dominant markets, the United States and Japan. This
growing demand for skipjack is met partly by increases in Japanese and United
States domestic catches and partly by increases in imports from the rest of
the world. Skipjack is a major source of tuna for the canning industry,
increasingly substituting for other tuna species, of which supplies are
unlikely to increase significantly, because of rising fishing costs and
limited resources. World market skipjack prices, because of the substantial
increases in catches, have declined recently, following very high prices in
1977. The high prices in 1977 were the result of heavy demand and relatively
small catches of all major tuna species in 1976. Bumper tuna landings were
achieved in 1978. Long-term prospects for skipjack prices are good. The
Maldives at present has a 2.3% market share of the international trade in
frozen tuna.
3.16      Maldivians consume some 70-90 kg of fish per year per capita, one
of the highest per capita fish consumption rates in the world. As producers
and consumers of fish are largely identicial, no institutionalized retail
markets exist, except at Male. Maldivians prefer fresh tuna over other fish.
The rapidly growing population of Male has become an important market for
fish, and many fishermen from the other atolls sell fish in Male. It is
estimated that some 200 pole and line fishing vessels, many of them motorized,
regularly fish for the Male market. Prices in Male fluctuate sharply. These
fluctuations are caused by the consumers' insistence on fresh fish, large
fluctuationis in daily landings and the complete lack of preservation facilities,
obliging fishermen to sell their catch as soon as it arrives in Male. Prices
in Male have increased sharply in the past two years because of the demand
from the thriving tourist industry, which has also provided an important
impetus to reef fisheries around Male.
Fishing Vessels
3.17      Vessels are mostly owned by regular fishermen, although there are
absentee owners, especially of motorized vessels, in the Male area. Crews
operate on a share basis, with crew share systems differing between atolls
and between mechanized and nonmechanized vessels.  A typical crew share on a
mechanized vessel is 40% of gross earnings minus fuel and gear costs, which
is divided equally among the crew, with extra shares for the skipper and the
master fisherman. Crew members of mechanized vessels earn about 40% more
annually than crew members of sailing vessels. Crews of the more efficient
new mechanized vessels earn over 80% more than their sailing colleagues, or
MRs 840 annually, versus MRs 470 for a fisherman of a sailing craft. A
skipper earns roughly twice a crew member's share when he is not the owner
of the vessel. Vessel owners earn between MRs 4,500 and MRs 7,500 annually,
compared to MRs 2,500 for a sailing vessel owner. Incomes of crew members of
sailing vessels have declined as a result of the cessation of the "Maldive
fish" export (para 3.11).



- 7 -
3.18      Fishing vessels are built in a number of yards located throughout
the country. The pole and line vessels are very well designed and built.
Constructed in a wide range of sizes (length overall ranges from 8 m to 14
m), they are double ended and built of local palm wood or woods imported from
India. They are well cared for and said to have a useful life of about 25-40
years. New boats are now built specifically for mechani6tion. The layout
still resembles that of the traditional sailing vessel, with no decking over
most of the boat to permit rowing and a large open bait tank in front of the
engine room. The installation of engines is carried out at the privately
owned Male Boat Yard (MBY), which has an installation capacity of about 325
engines per year. The yard is very efficiently managed and employs a staff of
about 40.
Fuel Supplies
3.19      Fuel for mechanized vessels is presently distributed by the three
collecting and marketing companies and by STO in Male. The companies are supply-
ing fuel at MRs 0.60 per liter compared to 1.65 per liter for fuel supplied by
STO in Male. The high subsidy which is entirely borne by the companies has
caused them to limit fuel supplies. At present, fuel is allocated to vessels
on the basis of the quantity of fish they deliver. Many vessels have to
regularly visit Mlale to buy additional fuel. GOM is presently negotiating
higher fuel prices with the companies which would allow them to distribute
fuel at a small profit.
Mechanization of Fishing Vessels
3.20      Mechanization started in 1974 when four vessels were mechanized on
a trial basis. In 1975, the Japanese Government granted 116 engines (30 HP)
to GOM. With financial assistance from Iran an additional 300 engines (30 HP
and 22 HP) and prefabricated materials for 2 maintenance and repair centers
(IRCs) were imported in 1976. In 1977 and 1978, a total of 465 engines (22 HP)
and one MRC were granted by the Japanese Government. So far, 220 engines under
the 1978 Japanese grant have been delivered. GOM is currently evaluating the
need to accept the entire 1978 grant which involves an additional 145 engines.
3.21      Mechanization of sailing boats involves drawing of the sternpost and
installation of a new one to provide a propellor aperture. A watertight bulk-
head is installed forward of the engine and the engine compartment decked over
and fitted with a trunk. Some boats have installed pumps intended to control
the water level of the baitwell. Most boats now being built are already
adjusted for mechanization and have the correct post, deck and trunk.
3.22      Mechanized pole and line vessels continue to fish in close proxi-
mity of the reefs; but their efficiency is greatly improved because they no
longer rely on wind, which increases the number of potential fishing days by
as much as 15%. Moreover, mechanized vessels reach fish schools much faster,
increasing the number of schools fished and wasting less time travelling to
and from the fishing grounds and collector vessels. Motorized vessels are
the only vessels which are able to move with the collector vessels and mother
ships to the most profitable fishing grounds. They continue to make single



- 8 -
day fishing trips because vessels are unable to keep bait alive for more than
one day, and are not suited to stay out for more than one day. Most of them
fish in the northern half of the country or near Male.
Maintenance and Repair Centers (MRCS)
3.23      Three MRCs are presently operating and two more are under construction.
The equipment for these centers is financed by a grant under Japanese bilateral
aid.  The 1MRCs presently operating are situated near the main fishing areas
(Map 13994). They are staffed with 2 Yanmar 1/ trained mechanics, managed
by Yanmar, and are operating satisfactorily. GOM has reached agreement with
Yanmar that as of March 1980, all MRCs will be owned and operated by a wholly
government owned corporation to be established.
Fisheries Administration
3.24      Two agencies are responsible for fisheries development; the Ministry
of Fisheries (MOF) and the Department for Tourism and Foreign Investment
(DTFI). The former deals with general fisheries policy and planning, mechan-
ization and catch statistics. DTFI is responsible for foreign investment in
fisheries and handles all matters pertaining to the two foreign companies
collecting fish and the joint venture (para 3.11). MOF has a staff of 18;
DTFI employs 16 people. MOF administers the credit scheme through which
fishermen can obtain engines. The loans are for eight years and carry no
interest. These terms were introduced when engines were granted by Japan.
GOM realizes that it should charge interest on loans for mechanization.
Repayment is bimonthly and made to TDF. Repayment performance is excellent,
records show no overdues whatsoever. To date, MOF has granted about 600 loans
of about MRs 15,000 each, most of which were granted in the past 3 years.
Aids to Navigation
3.25      There are no aids to navigation in the Maldives outside Male island,
and this discourages fishermen from attempting to fish out of sight of land.
Collector vessels and mother vessels can sail only during the daytime and,
consequently, their efficiency is severely hampered. Groundings of collector
vesse:Ls are frequent and recently one vessel was lost due to grounding.
Interisland transport is also largely limited to daytime sailings, and is,
consequently, a time consuming affair. Fishing vessels are also hampered by
a lack of navigational aids in the atolls. This is becoming a serious problem
because an increasing number of motorized fishing vessels are now fishing in
areas unfamiliar to them.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Major Features
4.01      The main objectives of the project would be to:
1/   Yanmar is a Japanese manufacturer of marine engines, and is presently
the sole supplier of these engines in the Maldives.



- 9 -
(i) increase fisheries production of the Maldives by increasing
the efficiency of fishermen through provision of credit for
motorization of pole and line sailing vessels and provision
of technical assistance; and
(ii)  improve the safety and efficiency of fishing operations
and marine transport by the installation of aids to navigation.
4.02      To achieve these objectives, the following would be provided:
(i) credit to fishermen for the motorization of 500 sailing
vessels with 22 hp diesel engines and spare parts for
these engines;
(ii)  five maintenance and repair centers for mechanized fishing
vessels;
(iii) installation of 10 navigation lights, 20 reef marker
buoys, 100 reef entrance markers and 20 fishing ground
marker buoys.
(iv)  technical services to assist GOM with procurement; and
(v) technical assistance comprising training of fishermen,
development of improved vessel designs and preparation
of a feasibility study for a follow up investment project
for marketing infrastructure.
Vessel Mechanization
4.03      The project would finance credit to fishermen for the purchase of
about 500 diesel engines (22 HP) and associated spare parts for the purpose of
mechanizing traditional pole and line sailing vessels or newly built vessels,
under a fisheries credit program to be administered by MOF. In addition, the
project would finance an inventory of spare parts and installation equipment.
The engines would be installed by the MBY. Installation in existing pole and
line vessels would involve replacement of the stern post, installation of engine
beds, a watertight bulkhead and a deck over the engine room. Most of the newly
built vessels already have a suitable stern post. In addition to the estimated
425 existing sailing vessels to be mechanized, about 75 new vessels would be
mechanized under the project.
Maintenance and Repair Centers
4.04      Five MRCs, fully equipped to carry out routine maintenance, major
overhauls and engine repairs, would be set up under the project. Each center
would be self-contained, have its own power supply and stocks of spare parts
and would be run by two locally trained mechanics. On-the-job training of
local marine engine mechanics is presently carried out in Male in the central
maintenance and repair center and through an ongoing UNDP-financed vocational
training course. Further engine-specific training would be provided by the
supplier of the project engines. The location of the centers would be deter-
mined on the basis of present and projected vessel densities in the area (see
also para 6.03).



- 10 -
Navigational Aids
4.05      The project would finance 10 navigation lights with a range of 6-7
miles to be installed at the approximate locations shown on Map 13994. They
would help facilitate vessel movements during the night in the areas which,
at present, can be safely passed only during the daytime. In addition, the
project would provide 20 buoys to mark reef entrances of important fishing
atolls. Shallow reefs and reef entrances of individual islands would be
marked by 100 simple day beacons (boards of marine plywood covered with
retro-reflective material). Finally, the project would provide 20 larger
buoys to mark open sea fishing grounds to facilitate speedier identification
of these grounds, especially by fishermen from outside the area.
4.06      The lights would be installed on 18 ft steel structures by the
Ministry of Provincial Affairs (NPA) and the Port Commission and Public Works
Department (DPW). The other aids to navigation would be installed by DPW
through the local atoll authorities. Routine maintenance of the lights would
be by DPW; the other aids would be regularly inspected by the atoll authorities.
Technical Services
4.07      GOM lacks experience of IDA procurement procedures and to facilitate
quick execution of the project, GOM would retain procurement consultants to
assist in preparing, inviting and evaluating bids and in preparing contract
documents.
Technical Assistance
4.08      During preparation of the IDA project it was felt that further
improvement of mechanized fishing operations would be feasible and desirable.
UNDP expressed an interest in financing such technical assistance and nego-
tiations have been substantially concluded between GOM and UNDP. GOM has
requested IDA be nominated Executing Agency. The technical assistance would
assist MOF to improve the efficiency of newly mechanized vessels and would
explore the feasibility of long-range vessels and future investment in
marketing infrastructure. Assurances were obtained that GOM would make
arrangements satisfactory to IDA for technical assistance, consisting of:
(a)  a training program for skippers and master fishermen whose
vessels are being mechanized in Male. This training program
would include improved baitfishing techniques, vessel and
engine handling during fishing, and fishing tactics. Courses
would last one week and would be given by two pole and line
master fishermen;
(b)  detailed design of possible improvements for existing mechanized
vessels, e.g., decking of the entire vessel, more suitable bait-
wells and engine control location. The project would lease two
mechanized vessels from the Government for the training program
and would improve these vessels in the Male Boat Yard to show
the advantages of the improvements to local fishermen;



- 11 -
(c)  design of a "second generation" pole and line vessel incorpo-
rating the improvements mentioned under (b) and including
a transom stern arrangement, further improvements of the
bait-and-fish-holds and a lowered deck arrangement;
(d)  building of five prototype "second generation" vessels
(mechanized under the IDA mechanization program);
(e)  design and building of a long range pole and line vessel
to explore the opportunities for commercial trips of 3-4
days to distant fishing grounds outside the atolls;
(f)  assistance of a navigational aids specialist to assist
with the exact location of the navigation lights provided
under the Bank project; and
(g)  preparation of a feasibility study for a fish collection
and marketing and a fuel distribution project.
4.09      The technical assistance would be executed over a 14 month period.
It is expected that the benefits of the training program and the boat improve-
ments would spread throughout the Maldives.
V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENTS, AUDITS AND ACCOUNTS
Cost Estimates
5.01      Total project cost is estimated at MRs 15.3 million (US$3.89 mil-
lion). Detailed cost estimates are given in Annex 3 and summarized below;
no duties and taxes would be applied to project expenditures since GOM only
levies duties on imports and exports of STO. These estimates include the
estimated MRs 1.1 million (US$282,000) cost of the UNDP financed technical
assistance (para 4.08).



- 12 -
MRs Million            US$ Million      % of
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Total
Mechanization
Engines (50nO and Spare
parts                        1.01   10.61  11.62  0.26   2.70    2.96  76
Maintenance and Repair
Centers (5)                  0.33    0.25   0.58  0.09   0.06    0.15   4
Subtotal                   1.34   10.86  12.20  0.35   2.76    3.11  80
Aids to Navigation
Lights (10)                    0.06    0.10   0.16  0.2    0.03    0.05   1
Markers (100)                    /a     0.01   0.01   /a       /a       /a    0
Buoys (40)                     0.01    0.03   0.04   Ia    0.01           0.01   0
Subtotal                   0.07    0.14   0.21  0.02   0.04    0.06   1
Technical Services                  -     0.04   0.04    -    0.01    0.01   0
Base Cost Estimate                1.41   11.04  12.45  0.37   2.81    3.18  81
Physical Contingencies /b         0.06    0.01   0.07  0.01    /a        0.01   0
Expected Price Increases          0.21    1.46   1.67  0.04   0.38    0.42  12
Total Expected IDA Financed
Project Cost                   1.68   12.51  14.19  0.42   3.19    3.61  93
UNiDP Financed Project Cost       0.01    1.10   1.11   /a    0.28    0.28   7
Total Expected Project Cost    1.69   13.61  15.30  0.42   3.47    3.89 100
/a   less than .005.
lb   15% on structures and buildings.
5.02      The estimates are based on November 1978 prices.  Fifteen percent
physical contingency rates have been applied to the costs of the buildings
for the MRCs and the structures for the navigation lights. Annual price con-
tingency rates used in estimating total costs are 6.5% for foreign equipment,
and imported building materials in 1979 and 6.0% thereafter. Local building
and structures costs are expected to increase by 10% in 1979 and 9% in 1980.
The higher rates for local construction are a reflection of substantial hotel
building activities. Installation costs for engines are expected to increase
by 6.5% in 1979 and 6.0% thereafter. Expected price increases total about
12% of base costs with physical contingencies.
Financing
5.03      Estimated shares in the financing of the project costs are as
follows:



- 13 -
GOM     IDA    UNDP   Total
--- MRs million --
Engines                          1.2    10.5      -      11.7
Spare parts                      -       1.5      -       1.5
MRCs                             0.4     0.3      -       0.7
Lights                          0.1      0.1      -       0.2
Day markers and buoys           0.0      0.1      -       0.1
Technical Services              0.0      0.0      -       0.0
Technical Assistance            0.0       -      1.1      1.1
Total                      1.7    12.5    1.1    15.3
5.04      The proposed IDA credit of US$3.2 million would finance about 82%
of estimated total project cost. The credit would cover 100% of the estimated
foreign exchange component of project costs excluding technical assistance.
UNDP would finance 99% of technical assistance costs, including local costs.
Project Implementation
5.05      The project would be implemented over a period of two and a half
years from 1979 through 1981, as shown in Chart 19772. The MRCs and the
lights would be installed by mid 1980 and other aids to navigation would be
installed by early 1981. The mechanization of engines would be spread over
the entire project period.
Lending Terms and Conditions
5.06      IDA funds for engines (US$2.69 million), spare parts (US$0.37 mil-
lion), MRCs (US$0.07 million) and technical services (US$0.01 million) would be
provided through GOM to MOF, which would have the responsibility to carry out
the project mechanization program through a fisheries credit scheme (para 5.07).
IDA funds for navigational aids (US$0.05 million) would be provided to MPA and
DPW, which would have the responsibility to carry out the navigational aids
component of the project. The transfer of funds from GOM to MOF, MPA and DPW
would be facilitated by authorization of the Department of Finance. Assurances
were obtained that GOM would provide adequate funds to MOF, MPA and DPW to
finance the local cost components of the project.
5.07      Subloans under Credit Program.  With the financial resources made
available under the project, MOF would carry out a fishing vessel mechaniza-
tion program in the form of a fisheries credit scheme. Credits to fishermen
would have a repayment period of eight years with no grace period, and would
have an annual interest rate of 9%. Repayments would be made bimonthly to TDF,
which would act as an agent of MOF. MOF would also make adequate insurance
arrangements and debt rescheduling procedures and ensure that financial commit-
ments for engines, spare parts, and MRC equipment are made only after IDA is
satisfied with respect to tender procedures and recommendations for award of
contract. Foreign exchange risks would be borne by GOM. Assurances were
obtained that MOF would make insurance of vessels financed under the project
mandatory.
5.08      MOF would require the borrowers to repay the credit, which would
cover 100% of the cost of the engine, including installation and some spare



- 14 -
parts (about US$4,700). Subloans would be provided on the basis of the
official accounting rate of US$1.00 = MRs 3.93 and would include 100% of the
local installation costs (MRs 2,100 or MRs 1,600 for an existing or new
boat, respectively). This arrangement would provide vessel owners a subsidy
of MRs 22,889 or 52.7% of total engine and installation costs, (See also para
8.02 on cost recovery.)
5.09      While MOF does not charge any interest on the ongoing mechanization
loans, it is considered desirable to charge an appropriate rate of interest
on project subloans for the purpose of introducing some measure of rational
resource allocation and of augmenting the resources available to the govern-
ment for reinvestment. Assurances were obtained that MOF would charge 9%
interest on all project mechanization loans and would not undertake mechaniza-
tion of pole and line fishing vessels with other external financial resources
in a way which would impair execution of the IDA project. An interest of 9.0%
per annum appears reasonable for the following considerations. A higher rate
to the ultimate borrowers is likely to meet strong political opposition. The
proposed rate would be considerably lower than the 13.5% annual interest
currently charged by the two foreign commercial banks for trade and real
estate loans. Moreover, the estimated financial rate of return on investment
in mechanization is high, ranging from 24 to 29%. Inflation in Male has been
about 15% per annum and about 5% outside Male. The high rate of inflation in
recent years is attributable to large government deficit financing associated
with investments for airport expansion in 1976 and the construction of an
earth satellite station in Male in 1977. Deficit financing of this magnitude
is unlikely in the near future, but it is difficult to predict the rate of
inflation for the coming years. The cost of credit administration is expected
to be very small.
Procurement
5.10      Motorization.  The contract for the supply of 500 engines (US$2.69
million), spare parts (US$372,000) and equipment for MRCs (US$60,000) would be
awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guide-
lines, including IDA clearance of tender documents and award of contract, and
would be administered by MOF. Engines and spare parts contract would specify
adequate after-sales service and training of MRC and MBY staff,  Contracts for
the buildings of MRCs would be small (US$122,500) and it is most unlikely that
foreign contractors would be interested in so small a contract iTi such a
remote area. The contracts for this work, therefore, would be on the basis
of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
IDA as outlined in the guidelines for procurement under World Bank lending,
including IDA clearance of tender documents and award of contract, and would
be administered by MOF. Installation of the engines would be by MBY on terms
similar to present arrangements between the MBY and MOF whereby MBY installs
engines at a cost which is very low compared to the costs of similar opera-
tions in other Asian countries.
5.11      Aids to Navigation.  Contracts for equipment for the aids to navi-
gat:ion would be awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance
with IDA guidelines and administered by MPA and DPW.  Steel structures for the



- 15 -
lights and other local cost items of the aids to navigation (US$22,900) would
be procured under local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to IDA and administered by MPA and DPW.
Disbursement
5.12      Disbursement of the IDA credit would be in accordance with the
following schedule:
(a)  100% (about US$3.13 million) of expenditures on engines,
spare parts and MRC equipment procured under ICB;
(b)  10% (about US$12,000) of expenditures on NIRC buildings,
procured locally, totalling about US$122,500;
(c)  100% (about US$34,000) of expenditures on aids to
navigation equipment procured under ICB;
(d)  10% (about US$2,000) of expenditures on structures for
navigational aids procured locally, totalling about
US$22,900; and
(e)  100% (about US$10,000) of expenditures on procurement
consultants.
5.13      Disbursements under (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) would be made against
appropriate documentation as outlined in the guidelines for withdrawal of
proceeds of IDA credits and would not be made against any land costs. A
quarterly schedule of estimated disbursement is given in Annex 5.
Accounts and Audits
5.14      Separate accounts would be maintained for all project expenditures
by all entities involved in project implementation. Accounts for activities
listed under (a) to (e) of para 5.12 would be subject to standard government
control and auditing proce4ures. Assurances were obtained that MOF and TDF
would maintain separate accounts for each approved subloan and have its finan-
cial accounts audited. Audited accounts for project components would be sent
to IDA within six months of the close of each financial year (calendar year).
Assurances were obtained that the Government Corporation which will be in
charge of MRCs have its balance sheets and profit and loss accounts audited by
auditors acceptable to IDA and provide copies of the auditors reports within
six months of the end of the financial year.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Coordination and Implementation
6.01      Project Coordinating Committee.  General responsibility for project
implementation would be vested in a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) to



- 16 -
be set up for the purpose. PCC would be chaired by the Minister of Fisheries,
with the Secretary of Fisheries as its Secretary, and its membership would
include, the Secretary of TDF, the Director of MBY and senior officers of
the National Planning Agency, DPW and the Ministry of Provinci-l  f            PCC
would be empowered to co-opt other state officials as necessary. Establishment
of PCC would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
6.02      Ministry of Fisheries.  MOF would be responsible for day-to-day
conduct of project activities other than the navigation aids, which would be
the responsibility of the MPA and DPW (para 6.04).  As practiced in administer-
ing the ongoing vessel mechanization program financed with Japanese bilateral
aid, MOF would select fishing vessel owners eligible for credit for vessel
mechanization.  All sailing vessel owners would be eligible for mechanization
loans, but priority would be given to owners of newer vessels and vessels
which operate in areas reasonably covered by fish collection systems. MOF has
received applications for mechanization loans from most owners of non-mechanized
pole and line vessels. Once eligible owners were selected, MOF would procure
the engines required, make arrangement for installing the engines, ensure
proper documentation for the credit program, work out procedures for collection
of repayments and maintain an effective vessel registration system governing
all mechanized fishing vessels operating in the Maldives.  Through the success-
ful execution of the ongoing mechanization program (under which as many as 600
vessels have been mechanized to date), MOF has demonstrated its capability to
execute the proposed mechanization program.
6.03      Maintenance and Repair Centers.  MOF would also be responsible for
construction of the five project MRCs to provide adequate maintenance and
repair service to mechanized fishing vessels. MOF would ensure that they are
properly designed, suitably located, and effectively managed. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that GOM would select 5 MRC sites acceptable to
IDA and make these sites available to the project by September 30, 1979; and
that GOM would prepare a detailed plan for construction of project MRCs
acceptable to IDA by October 31, 1979. The five MRCs now operating or under
construction are owned by GOM but managed by Yanmar Company. GOM and Yanmar
have agreed to hand over responsibilities to a government owned corporation to
be established by March 1980. This corporation might be headed by the present
owner and managing director of MBY. Such an arrangement would be acceptable
provided its financial structure were viable. Assurances were obtained that
GOM would provide IDA with a policy statement regarding the organization,
management and operating procedures of MRCs in general and project MRCs in
particular prior to September 30, 1979.
6.04      Navigational Aids.  NPA and DPW will be in charge of the aids to
navigation project component including the installation of the lights, and the
distribution of the reef markers and buoys to the atolls. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that MPA and DPW would adequately maintain the
lights and through the atoll authorities the other project-financed aids to
nagivation (para 4.06).



- 17 -
Fuel Supply
6.05      The foreign firms which buy skipjack from STO supply fuel oil to
the fishing vessels selling fish to them. Claiming that the present prices
at which they are selling fuel, which were negotiated some years ago, are far
below ac aal cost, firms have been reluctant to deliver more fuel oil than they
consider to be absolutely necessary to keep fishing efforts at a reasonable
level. As a result, there have been recurrent fuel shortages which have
disrupted the fishing operations of mechanized vessels. GOM is presently
negotiating a higher fuel price with the companies which would allow them to
sell fuel at a price slightly below STO's price in Male. This price would be
sufficiently high to provide the necessary incentive to the companies to
continue and expand the importation and distribution of fuel.  GOM is propos-
ing a marketing infrastructure project to be financed by KFAED, which would
include fuel distribution. Furthermore, GOM is planning to establish its own
network of fuel depots on atolls near the main fishing grounds. This network
and the price arrangement with the companies would be adequate to satisfy most
short term fuel needs of the country pending implementation of the KFAED
project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOM would take all
such actions as within its powers to ensure adequate supply of fuel for
purposes of the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation
6.06      MOF would carry out a fish production monitoring and evaluation
program. For this purpose MOF would continue to compile catch statistics
from mechanized and nonmechanized vessels and would focus on the changes
taking place in the course of project implementation. In addition, MOF would
make a study of changes in costs of harvesting fish by different categories of
fishing vessels, for the purpose of conducting a periodic review of costs and
benefits generated by the project. The data so collected would constitute the
basis for the Project Completion Report which MOF would prepare at the close
of the project.
Reporting
6.07      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that MOF would prepare
quarterly reports and an annual summary and, within six months after comple-
tion of the project, a project completion report, in a form acceptable to IDA.
Quarterly reports would reach IDA within six weeks of the end of each calendar
quarter and the annual summary within six weeks of the  n idof the reporting
year. These reports would cover all project components, including the naviga-
tion aids component and the MRCs component. The reports would contain specific
information on procurement of project engines and equipment, progress in
construction of MRCs and number of engines installed during each reporting
period. In addition, the reports would provide data concerning the size of
the mechanized and nonmechanized fishing fleet registered in different regions
at the end of the reporting period, work done by MRCs, MPA, DPW and MBY during
the reporting period, staffing position of MOF, collection performance of
loans for vessel mechanization, project monitoring work being done and planned,
updated project cost and disbursement projections, and other information on
matters materially affecting project implementation.



- 18 -
Technical Assistance
6.08      Under the technical assistance to be financed by UNDP, IDA would
select and employ a naval architect, two master fishermen, a navigational
aids specialist and three marketing specialists, in consultation with GOM.
To facilitate the training of fishermen, the project would lease two mech-
anized pole and line vessels from GOM. The technical assistance would be
administered by IDA.
VII. PROJECT PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
Production
7.01      At full development in about 1981, the project's annual incremental
output from fishing vessels motorized under the project would be about 11,900
tons of fish valued at US$3.25 million on the basis of October 1978 landed
dollar prices including export duties. Almost all fish would be exported.
Mark:eting
7.02      Long-term market prospects for project production, skipjack tuna,
are good. Skipjack is becoming the most important ingredient of canned tuna,
the form in which most tuna reaches consumers in the United States, the largest
market for tuna. Demand in the United States has been very strong because of
sharply increasing prices of beef and poultry meat, principal tuna substitutes.
World skipjack catches increased from 530,000 MT in 1973 to 645,000 MT in 1976.
The world skipjack resources are estimated to have a sustainable yield of well
over 1 million MT; the increases in catches expected in the foreseeable future
are not likely to be large enough to pose marketing problems. The Maldivian
share of the global skipjack market is expected to remain less than 4% in the
next 10 years, and, as the Maldivians appear to have a clear advantage over
their competitors in terms of costs of harvesting, no serious marketing prob-
lems are anticipated, even in the most unlikely event that world market prices
fall considerably below those anticipated. MOF plans to establish additional
fish collecting facilities to be financed by KFAED in the near future, which
would facilitate fish collection from most major fishing areas.
Prices
7.03      Financial projections have been based on the average prices received
by Maldivian fishermen under present contracts between GOM and the foreign
companies i.e. MRs 753 (US$191.55) per ton of small skipjack weighing less
than 2 kg each and MRs 1,006 (US$255.95) per ton for larger skipjack and other
tuna. These prices are considerably below the prices paid elsewhere in the
world for comparable fish, and, in view of the rising long-term trends in
skipjack prices, it is highly unlikely that Maldivian fishermen would be
receiving prices below those projected here.



- 19 -
VIII. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Financial Analysis
8.01      The project's financial benefits would consist primarily of the
value of the incremental catch resulting from vessels mechanized under the
Project and improved efficiency of vessels due to the availability of navi-
gation lights and reef entrance markers which would allow them to leave
earlier for fishing and return later. At full development, proposed project
investments are expected to yield annual incremental landings of about 11,900
tons of skipjack tuna valued at US$3.25 million. In addition, the aids to
navigation would improve safety at sea. The estimated financial rate of
return from the mechanization of an existing traditional pole and line vessel
is about 24%. The estimated financial rate of return for a new mechanized
vessel is about 29%. These estimates are based on cash flow projections
shown in Annex 4.
Cost Recovery of Investment in Engines and Aids to Navigation
8.02      Loans for project engines amount to MRs 10.5 million.  Individual
loans would cover the value of the engine (US$4,700) 1/ and the cost of
installation of the engine (MRs 1,600 or MRs 2,100). This arrangement implies
that each credit applicant receives a subsidy of MRs 22,900 for each engine
installed. This subsidy, however, would be fully recovered by STO through
the application of the same official accounting rate to sales prices of fish
(para 2.03). Application of the official accounting rate would mean that
fishermen would receive only 44.7% of the dollar value of their landings, and
over the loan repayment period (eight years), each project vessel would
receive MRs 330,000 less for its fish than if the commercial exchange rate of
US$1.00 = MRs 8.80 were applied. This imputed taxation would amount to about 14
times the subsidy on the engine. Changes in the present system are not
considered feasible pending establishment of a Central Bank.
8.03      Direct cost recovery for the aids to navigation is not considered,
because the main beneficiaries of the lights would pay substantial imputed
taxes to the Government as discussed in 8.02. Many of the vessels which have
not been motorized would also benefit from the lights. Cost recovery from
this group is not considered feasible.
Economic Analysis
8.04      The estimated economic rates of return (ERR) for the mechanized ves-
sels are much higher than the financial rates of return. For the ERR calcula-
tions, the following adjustments to the financial projections have been made:
1/   Converted at the official accounting rate of US$1.00 = MRs 3.93.



- 20 -
(a) gross benefits have been adjusted by multiplying the
US$ prices paid by companies to STO at the commercial
exchange rate and eliminating the export tax of
MRs 78.80 per metric ton. The US$ price paid by the
comppr!es is considered the border price because the
foreign companies which, at present, collect and export
fish, have a true monopsony position, and no realistic
opportunities exist, at present, for STO to sell at
prices closer to the world market price. Future invest-
ments in fish marketing infrastructure might enable the
Maldives to export fish directly, but its continuing
dependence on the foreign companies for a number of
years makes it uncertain whether this will facilitate
higher export prices;
(b) fuel costs are calculated at the official price in Mfale.
No duties are levied on the official import of diesel fuel;
(c) the costs of the engines are calculated at the commercial
exchange rate;
(d) opportunity costs of crew shares which equal the costs of
crews on sailing vessels are used; and
(e) the costs of technical services and technical assistance
have been calculated at the commercial exchange rate.
On the basis of these assumptions, the ERR for investment in mechanization of
existing vessels (US$2.29 million) is over 100% (Annex 5, Table 2). Investment
in mechanization of new vessels (US$0.40 million) would have a substantially
higher ERR.
8.05      At full development the project would increase export-earnings by
US$3.3 million annually, or 185% over 1977 exports, and more than half of the
gross annual incremental proceeds of the project vessels would accrue to the
Government, through the application of the official accounting rate and
export duties. The rest would increase the incomes of the project fishermen.
8.06      Project navigational aids would provide important benefits to the
country. These aids would reduce travel time between atolls, increase the
time available to fishing vessels for fishing and reduce the chances of
accidents during night time trips.
8.07      The ERR for the entire project investment (US$3.9 million) is 100%
(Annex 5, Table 3). This ERR would decrease to 26% when all estimated bene-
fits would be reduced by 30% and all estimated costs would increase by the
same percentage.



- 21 -
Project Beneficiaries
8.08      Project benefits would accrue to GOM, through its application of the
official accounting rate (US$2.0 million annually). Net earnings of vessel
owners (about 500) would increase about 90% or MRs 2,400 annually, and the
share of about 5,000 crew members would increase by 40 to 80% (an incremental
increase of about MRs 200 to MRs 400) as a result of the project. The project
would directly affect the incomes of an estimated 16% of the Maldivian male
labor force.
Risks
8.10      Risks associated with the project would be a possible overharvesting
of skipjack and bait fish resources, and a shortage of fuel from the mother
vessels. The skipjack resources in the Indian Ocean are plentiful, and, with
anticipated fishing efforts, overfishing is highly unlikely; present skipjack
catches in the Indian Ocean are an estimated 10% of the potential yield. Bait
fish resources in the area are not very well known but appear adequate; the
projects impact on bait-catches is limited. Risks stemming from fuel shortages
are expected to be reduced once GOM reaches agreement on the fuel price issue
with the foreign companies, as discussed in para 6.05.
Environmental Effects
8.11      The project would have few ill effects on the environment.  Acci-
dental spillage of fuel oil is the only negative effect which might result
from vessel mechanization. Project-financed aids to navigation would decrease
the risks of stranding and oil spillages and should compensate for the pos-
sible negative environmental effects that might be attributable to the project.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that GOM would:
(a) make suitable arrangements satisfactory to IDA for technical
assistance (para 4.08);
(b) provide adequate funds to MOF, MPA and DPW to finance the
local cost components of the project (para 5.06);
(c) cause MOF to make insurance of vessels financed under the
project mandatory (para 5.07);
(d) cause MOF to charge 9% interest on all project mechaniza-
tion loans, and would not undertake mechanization of pole
and line fishing vessels with other external financial
resources in a way which would impair execution of the
IDA project (para 5.09);



- 22 -
(e) cause MOF and TDF to maintain separate accounts for each
approved subloan and have its financial accounts audited.
Audited accounts for project components would be sent to
IDA within six months of the close of each financial year
(calendar year) (para 5.14);
(f) cause the Government Corporation which will be in charge
of MRCs to have its balance sheets and profit and loss
accounts audited by auditors acceptable to IDA and pro-
vide copies of the auditor's reports within six months
of the end of the financial year (para 5.14);
(g) select 5 MRC sites acceptable to IDA and make these
sites available to the project by September 30, 1979;
that GOM would prepare a detailed plan for construction
of project-MRCs acceptable to IDA by October 31, 1979,
and that GOM would provide IDA with a policy statement
regarding the organization, management and operating
procedures of MRCs in general and project MRCs in par-
ticular prior to September 30, 1979 (para 6.03);
(h) adequately maintain the aids to navigation (para 6.04);
(i) take all such actions as within its powers to ensure
adequate supply of fuel for purposes of the project
(para 6.05); and
(j) cause MOF to prepare quarterly reports and an annual
summary and, within six months after completion of the
project, a project completion report, acceptable to
IDA (para 6.07).
9.02       Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) a Project Coordinating Committee had been established by GOM
(para 6.01).
9.03      With these assurances and conditions, the project is suitable for an
IDA credit of US$3.2 million.



- 23 -
MALDIVES                                                  ANNEX I
FISHERIES PROJECT
Fish Landings, Exports and Consumption 1967 - 1976 (in MT)
1967       1968        1969         1970       1971        1972          1973         1974         1975          1976
Landings
Skipjack                        19,481-    19,05Z       20,246      27,012      29,660      12,782      17,119        19,561      12,469        13,776
Large Skipjack                     -          --          --                                 4,731       1,730         2,537       2,355         6,026
Yellowfin                         --  2/            2/    --  2/    2,102        1,431       2,075       5,598         4,292       3,844         4,510
Little Tuna                      3,629-       3,547-    3,473-       3,102         465         567       1,026           792         396         1,074
Frigate Mackerel                  --          --          --           682       2,868       3,034       6,192         5,681       3,868         2,897
Reef Fish
Pole & Line and
Trolling boats                 --          --          --         1,639       1,031       1,210       1,397         1,486       1,398         1,948
Others                         --          --          --          --          --           495-        255-/         340-        375-          240
Male Landings                     --          --          --          --          --           616         699           700-        495            500
Total Landings                     23,110      22,599      23.719      34,537      35,455      25.510      34,016        35,389      25,200        30,971
Exports
Dried Maldive Fish               3,194       3,086       3,407       4,740       5,389       3,835       3,098         3,545       1,961         1,607
Other Dried, Salted
or smoked fish                     125         200         271         240         157          18          75           273          15            63
Sub-Total (Product Weight)       3,319       3,286       3,678       4,980       5,546       3,853       3,173         3,818       1,976         1,670
Equivalent
Live w-ight 6/               16,595      16.430      18.390      24,900      27.730      19,265      15,865        19,090       9.880         8,350
Fresh/Frozen Fish
HOKO 7/                        --          --          --          --          --         2,020       4,447         4,484       5,763         8,017
ICP 8/                         --          --          --         --          --          --          --             --         --              709
Subtotal  Frozen Fish             --          --          --          --          --         2.020       4.447         4,484       5,763         8,726
Grand Total Exports                16,595      16,430      18,390      24,900      27,730      21,285      20,312        23,574      15,643        17,076
Domestic Supply                     6,515       6,169       5,329       9.637       7,725       4,225      13,704        11.815       9,557        13,895
Population                        103,801    106,969    110.770    114.469    118,818    122,673    125,676a'           128.679    132,539L2/   136,5162/
Per Capita Consumption in kg.           63          58          48         84           65         34         109            92           72           102
1/  Skipjack, large Skipjack and Yellowfin combined
2/  Little Tuna and Frigate Mackerel
3/  Skipjack and large Skipjackcombined
4/  Conversion factor:  one fish equivalent to 0.15 kg.
5/ Estimates
6/ Conversion factor 1:5
7/ Starting June 1972
8/ Starting May 1976
9/  Interpolation of census data 1972 and 1974
10/  1974 plus 3% p.a. growth rate
Sources: Ministry of Fisheries, Election Division and GOPA



MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
FISHING VESSELS
Estimated fishing fleet size per collection area a/
Of which       Of which       Vessels
Number of Pole and    Motorized       Motorized       Motorized         Fleet at Full
Collection Area    Line Vessels             July 1978      Aug. 1979      under project    development
Atolls A - G             860                  257             290              200               490
Atolls M - N              630                 180             200               50               250
Atolls 0 - S             660                   60             287             250                537
TOTAL                2150                  497             777  b/         500               1277
a/ Division between collection areas is tentative.
b/ Includes 280 vessels mechanized between July 1978 and August 1979 with
engines financed by Japanese bilateral aid.
Source:  MOF.                                                                                                      i
I- N.L
&



- 25 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
FISHING VESSELS
Description of Fishing Vessels
Traditional Pole    Improved Pole and
and Line Vessel      Line Vessel
Overall Length (m)                   7.8                  9.5
Length at Water Line (m)             7.4                  9.0
Beam (m)                             2.8                  3.2
Power (shaft HP)                    22.0                 22.0
Crew (men)                          12.0                 12.0
Normal Endurance (days)              1.0                  1.0
Equipped cost (MRs '000)            33.1                 42.4
Number in Project                 425.0                  75.0
Source: MOF.



MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Unit and Base Cost as of November 1978
(MRs '000)
Number of                                   US$
Units      Local    Foreign       Total    Equivalent
Mechanization
Engines  1/                                               500.0          -    9,235.5   9,235.0        2,350.0
Installation Costs, New Vessel 2/                          75.0      120.0           -      120.0         30.5
Installation Costs, Second Hand Vessel 3/                 425.0      892.5           -      892.5        227.1
Slow Moving Spare Parts 4/                                    -          -    1,375.5   1,375.5          350.0
Equipment for Maintenance and Repair Centers 5/             5 sets       -       221.3      221.3         56.3
Maintenance and Repair Center Buildings 6/                  5.0      332.3        28.4      360.7         91.8
Aids of Navigation
Lights (Equipment) 7/                                      10.0          -        84.5       84.5         21.5
Lights (Structures) 8/                                     10.0       57.2        13.8       71.0         18.1
Day Beacons 9/                                            100.0         .9         6.7        7.6          1.9
Buoys (Reef markers) 10/                                   20.0        4.4        21.6       26.0          6.6
Buoys (Fishing ground markers) 11/                         20.0        4.4        13.6       18.0          4.6
Technical Services  12/                                          -          -        39.3       39.3         10.0
Technical Assistance  13/                                         -     315.2       792.7   1,107.9         281.9
1/  22 HP water cooled diesel engine with stern gear CIF Male $4,340.00.  Installation appliances
$130 per engine. Fast moving spare parts $230 per engine.
2/ Does not include new stern post.
3/ Includes new stern post.
4/ 15% of engine value, or $700 per engine.
5/  Includes generator, electric welding equipment, lath, and tools.
6/  6 x 10 m. inside floor area @ MRs 1200/m2 of which  8.0% foreign materials.
7/  Includes light, solar energy panel, rechargeable battery and two complete spare units, and cost of
company representative to install lights.                                                                             F-W
8/ 15' steel structure on concrete base.
9/ 2' x 2' marine plywood boards with retroreflective sheets.
10/ Can-shaped fiberglass buoys of 15' length with 250 kg. sinkers and heavy duty corrosion resistant mooring.
11/ Can-shaped fiberglass race course buoys with 9" to 14" diameter with 250 kg. sinkers and mooring.
12/ Procurement consultants, 1 man-month.
El/ Consultants:  26 man-months, 2 training vessels and 6 demonstration vessels.



MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
------- MRs '000                     ------ US$ 1000 ----              Foreign
Local       Foreign      Total       Local    Foreign        Total      Exchange 2
Mechanization
Engines (500)
Base Cost Estimate                      1,012.5       9,235.0    10,247.5    257.6    2,350.0    2,607.6            90.1
Spare Parts
Base Cost Estimate                             -      1,375.5      1,375.5          -       350.0       350.0      100.0
MRCs (5)
Equipment, Base Cost Estimate                  -        221.3        221.3          -        56.3        56.3      100.0
Buildings, Base Cost Estimate              332.3         28.4        360.7      84.6          7.2        91.8        7.8
Physical Contingencies (15%)                49.8          4.3          54.1      12.7         1.1        13.8        8.0
Total Mechanization                        1,394.6    10,864.5    12,259.1    354.9    2,764.6    3,119.5             88.6
Aids to Navigation
Lights (10)                                                          -           -                -           -           -
Equipment, Base Cost Estimate                    -         84.5          84.5         _        21.5        21.5      100.0
Structures, Base Cost Estimate                57.2         13.8          71.0      14.6         3.5        18.1       19.3
Physical Contingencies (15%)                   8.6          2.1          10.7       2.2         0.5         2.7       18.5
Day Beacons (100)
Base Cost Estimate                             .9          6.7           7.6       0.2         1.7         1.9       89.5
Buoys (reef markers) (20)
Base Cost Estimate                            4.4         21.6          26.0       1.1         5.5         6.6       83.3
Buoys (Fishing ground markers) (20)
Base Cost Estimate                            4.4         13.8          18.0       1.1         3.5         4.6       76.1
Total Aids to Navigation                         75.5        142.4         217.9      19.2        36.2        55.4        65.3
Technical Services                                   -         39.3         39.3         -        10.0        10.0       100.0
Technical Assistance                            315.2         792.7      1,107.9      80.2       201.7       281.9        71.6
Total with Physical Contingencies             1,785.3    11,838.9    13,624.2    454.3    3,012.5    3,466.8             86.9



- 28 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Costs
Expected Price Increases
(MRs '000)
1979         1980          1981         Total
Expected Price Increase Rates
Equipment - Foreign  a/                    6.5%         6.0%         6.0%
Installation of Engines                    6.5%         6.0%         6.0%
Local Structures  b/                      10.0%         9.0%           -
Equipment - Foreign a/
Base Cost Estimate  c/                 2,677.5      5,090.9      3,232.4      11,000.8
Physical Contingencies                     4.6          1.7            -           6.3
Subtotal                           2,682.1      5,092.6      3,232.4      11,007.1
Expected Price Increases                 174.3        656.4        635.6       1,466.3
Total Foreign Equipment            2,856.4      7,401.0      3,868.0      12,473.4
Installation of Engines
Base Cost Estimate  c/                   105.0        565.0        342.5       1,012.5
Physical Contingencies                       -            -            -             -
Subtotal                             105.0        565.0        342.5       1,012.5
Expected Price Increases                   6.8         72.8         67.3         146.9
Total Installation of Engines        111.8        637.8        409.8       1,159.4
Local Buildings and Structures b/
Base Cost Estimate  c/                   266.3        132.9            -         399.2
=Physical Contingencies                    38.5         19.9            -          58.4
Subtotal                             304.8        152.8             -        457.6
Expected Price Increases                  30.5         30.4            -          60.9
Technical Services                          39.3            -            -          39.3
Technical Assistance                       573.7        534.8            -       1,107.9
Total Expected Price Increases             211.6        759.6        702.9       1,674.1
Total Project Cost                       3,915.9      7,104.8      4,227.8      15,298.5
Price Increases as percent of Base
Cost Plus Contingencies                    5.6%        12.0%        19.7%         12.3%
a/  Including imported building materials (steel, cement)
b/  Excluding imported building materials (steel, cement)
c/ All base costs are based on November 1978 prices.



- 29 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
(MRs '000)
1979      1980       1981        Total
Mechanization
Engines
Unit Cost                                 18.5       18.5       18.5           -
Number of Units                           50.0      275.0      175.0            -
Subtotal                              923.5   5,079.5   3,232.4    9,235.5
Installation, New Vessels
Unit Cost                                    -        1.6        1.6            -
Number of Units                               -      25.0       50.0            -
Subtotal                                  -       40.0       80.0       120.0
Installation, Second Hand Vessels
Unit Cost                                  2.1        2.1        2.1           -
Number of Units                           50.0      250.0      125.0           -
Subtotal                              105.0      525.0      262.5       892.5
Spare Parts
Subtotal                            1,375.5          -          -    1,375.5
Maintenance and Repair Centers
Equipment                                221.3          -          -       221.3
Building Costs                           216.4      144.3          -       360.7
Subtotal Base Costs                   437.7      144.3          -       582.0
Physical Contingencies                      32.4       21.7           -       54.1
Subtotal                              470.1      166.0          -       636.1
Expected Price Increases
Equipment                                166.0      656.4      635.6    1,458.0
Installation of Engines                    6.8       72.8       67.3       146.9
Buildings                                 22.9       30.4          -        53.3
Subtotal                              195.7      759.6      702.9    1,658.2
Total Mechanization                         3,069.8   6,570.1   4,277.8   13,917.7
Aids to Navigation
Lights
Unit Cost                                  8.4          -          -           -
Number of Units                           10.0          -          -           -
Subtotal                               84.5          -          -        84.5
Light Structures
Unit Cost                                  7.1          -          -           -
Number of Units                           10.0          -          -           -
Subtotal                               71.0          -          -        71.0
Physical Contingencies                      10.7           -          -       10.7
Subtotal                               81.7          -          -        81.7
Day Markers
Unit Cost                                    .8         -          -           -
Number of Units                          100.0          -          -           -
Subtotal                                7.6          -          -         7.6
Buoys (reef markers)
Unit Cost                                  1.3          -          -           -
Number of Units                           20.0          -          -           -
Subtotal                               26.0          -          -        26.0
Buoys (fishing ground markers)
Unit Cost                                    *9         -          -           -
Nuhmber of IJnits                         20.0          -          -           -
Subtotal                               18.0          -          -        18.0
Expected Price Increases
Equipment                                  8.1          -          -         8.1
Structures                                 7.6          -          -         7.6
Subtotal                               15.7          -          -        15.7
Total Aids to Navigation                       233.6          -          -       233.6
Total Technical Services                        39.3          -          -        39.3
Technical Assistance
Consultants                                276.7      459.8           -      736.5
Equipment                                  296.4       75.0          -       371.4
Total Technical Assistance                    573.1      534.8           -    1,107.9
Total Project Cost                          3,915.9   7,104.8   4,227.8   15,298.5



30-                          ANNEX 4
Table 1
MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Motorized Traditional Pole and Line Vessel
(MRs '000)
__________---- years --------- --
I.  Benefits                         1         2        3-8      9         10
Without project 1/               9.4      9.4       9.4      9.4       9.4
With project 2/                 24.4    28.5       28.5    28.5      28.5
Incremental Increase (1)        15.0    19.1      19.1    19.1       19.1
II. Operating Costs
Without project 1/               6.9      6.9       6.9      6.9       6.9
With project 2/                 19.4    21.0       21.1    21.1      21.1
Incremental Increase (2)        12.5    14.1      14.2    14.2       14.2
III. Investment Costs
Without project 1/              12.5      --        --       --     [7.0
With project 2/                 33.1      --        --       --      [11.0]
IV.  Incremental Increase (3)        20.6                                 L 4.01
V.  Net Benefits (1)-(2)-(3)       [18.1]    5.0        4.9      4.9       8.9
V:[.  Financial Rate of Return  24.1%
l/  See Annex 4,  Table  2
2/  See Annex 4,  Table  3



- 31 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
Traditional Pole and Line Sailing Vessel
(MRs '000)
 ------------ Years ---
1              2-9                 10
I.  Cash Inflow
Gross Sales 1/                 (1)         9.4             9.4               9.4
Owner Contribution                          2/               -                 -
Loan Amount                                  -               -                 -
Total Cash Inflow         (2)         9.4            9.4                9.4
II. Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Wages 3/                                 5.6            5.6                5.6
Fuel
Maintenance 4/                             .8             .8                .8
Vessel Insurance                           -               -                 -
Miscellaneous 5/                          .5              .5                *5
Total Operating Costs   (3)           6.9            6.9                6.9
Investment Cost 6/           (4)           -              -               (7.0)
Debt Service                               -               -
Total Cash Outflow        (5)         6.9            6.9               (0.1)
III.  Net Cash Flow  (2)-(5)          (6)         2.5            2.5                9.5
IV. Financial Benefit-Cost
Benefit (1)                    (7)         9.4            9.4                9.4
Cost (3) & (4)                 (8)        19.4            6.9               (0.1)
Net Benefit (7)-(8)            (9)       (10.0)            2.5               9.5
V.  Financial Rate of Return   23.7%   Rate of Return on Equity  23.7%
1/  The vessel will operate an average 105 days (catching 95 kg./day) of which 30
days for export; 40% of the catch consists of fish smaller than 2 kg. Prices
paid for export fish are $191.55 for fish smaller than 2 kg and $255.95 for
larger fish. Prices are paid in MRs converted at the official accounting
rate. Local prices are MRs .80 per kg. for all fish.
2/  Estimated value of 5 year old vessel is MRs 12,500.
3/  60% of gross sales.
4/  Includes sail repair and replacement (MRs 150) hull maintenance (MRs 650)
5/  Poles and hooks (MRs 350), baitnet (MRs 150).
6/  Value of 15 year old vessel = MRs 7,000.



- 32                                 ANNEX 4
Table 3
MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flo prolections
Motorized Traditional Pole and Line Vessel
(MRs '000)
______----- years --------------
1       2        3-8      9        10
I Cash Inflow
Gross Sales  1/                    (1)    24.4    28.5    28.5    28.5    28.5
Borrowers Contribution  2/                  --      --       --       --      --
Loan Amount  3/                           20.6      --       --       --       --
Total Cash Inflow           (2)    45.0    28.5    28.5    28.5    28.5
II Cash Outflow
Operational Costs
Wages  4/                               6.3      7.9      7.9      7.9     7.9
Fuel, lubrication  5/                 .8.7       8.7      8.7      8.2     8.7
Maintenance  6/                         2.8      2.8      2.8      2.8     2.8
Vessel Insurance  7/                      .8      .8       .9       .9       .9
Miscellaneous  8/                         .8      .8       .8       .8       .8
Total Operating Costs       (3)    19.4    21.0    21.1    21.1    21.1
Investment Costs                   (4)    20.6      --       --       --    [11.0] 9/
Debt Service  10/                           3.7     3.7      3.7      --       --
Total Cash Outflow          (5)    43.7    24.7    24.8    21.1    10.1
III  Net Cash Flow  (2) - (5)               (6)     1.3      3.8      3.7     7.4    18.4
IV Financial Benefit - Cost
Incremental Benefit  11/           (7)    15.0    19.1    19.1    19.1    19.1
Incremental Cost  12/              (8)    33.1    14.1    14.2    14.2    10.2
Net Incremental Benefit (7)-(8) (9)   [i8.1]    5.0          4.9  -_4.9        8.9
V  Financial Rate of Return  24.1%                   Rate of Return on Equity over 100%
1/  The vessel will operate 150 days a year, the catch per day will be 180 kg. in
year i and 210 kg. in the following years. 40% of the catch is smaller than
2 kg. Prices paid for fish smaller than 2 kg. will be US$191.55, larger fish:
US$ 255.95. Prices are paid in MRs converted at the official accounting rate
of US$1.00 = MRs 3.93.
2/  Value of 5 year old vessel MRs 12,500.00.
3/  22 HP diesel engine CIF Male, US$4,700.00.converted at the official accountin,e
rate of USS1.00 - MRs 3.93. Installation costs are MR. 2,100.00.
4/  Crew share is 40% of gross sales minus fuel and gear costs.
5/  60% of fuel supplies obtained at estimated future rate of MRs 1.40/liter,*
40% from Male at at MRs 1.64/liter; lubrication cost 10% of fuel cost.  Vessels
operate 10 hours per fishing day, effective power use 16 HP fuel consumption
0.2 liter per hour per effective horsepower. Additional use of vessels for
transport etc.: 15 days.
6/ Engine maintenance and repair, 5% of engine costs converted at commercial
exchange rate of US$1.00 = MRs 8.80 (spare parts are presently available
only at prices converted at the commercial rate). Hull maintenance and
repair MRs 650.00 per year.
7/  First two years 2% of new vessel value (MRs 22,290.00 for hull and MRs 20,070.00
for engine).  Year 3-5:  2.14% of new value.  Year 6-10:  2.21% of new value.
8/  Poles and hooks MRs 500.00; bait net MRs 250.00.
9/  Value of 15 year old motorized vessel MRs 11,000.00.
10/ Repayment of loan over 8 years at 9% interest.
11/ Gross sales of motorized vessel minus gross sales of sailing vessel
(Annex 4, Table 2).
12/ Operating and Investment cost of motorized vessel minus operating and
investment cost of sailing vessel (Annex 4, Table 2).
* See para 6.05.



- 33-
ANNEX 4
Table 4
MAIDIVES
FISHERIES PRWECT
Cash Flow Projections
New Motorized Fishing Vessels
(M4Rs '000)
- - - -- - -year           - - -- - - -
1       2        3-8      9        10
I  Cash Inflow
Gross Sales  1/                    (1)    29.9    33.9    33.9    33.9    33.9
Borrowers Contribution  2/                22.3      --       --       --      --
Loan Amount  3/                           20.1      --       --       --      --
Total Cash Inflow           (2)    72.3    33.9    33.9    33.9    33.9
II Cash Outflow
Operational Costs
Wages  4/                               8.5    10.1    10.1    10.1    10.1
Fuel, Lubrication  5/                   8.7      8.7     8.7      8.7      8.7
Maintenance  6/                         2.8      2.8      2.8     2.8      2.8
Vessel Insurance  7/                     .8       .8       .9       .9      .9
Miscellaneous  8/                        .8       .8       .8       .8       .8
Total Operating Costs       (3)    21.6    23.2    23.3    23.3    23.3
Investment Costs                   (4)    42.4      --       --      --    [14.0] 9/
Debt Service  10/                          3.6      3.6      3.6      --      --
Total Cash Outflow          (5)    67.6    26.8    26.9    23.3         9.3
III  Net Cash Flow  (2) - (5)              (6)      4.7      7.1     7.0    10.6    24.6
IV Financial Benefit - Cost
Benefit (1)                        (7)    29.9    33.9    33.9    33.9    33.9
Cost (3) + (4)                     (8)    64.0    23.2    23.3    23.3        9.3
Net Benefit (7) - (8)              (9)   [34.1]   10.7    10.6    10.6    24.6
V  Financial Rate of Return  29.3%           Rate of Return on Equity 40.5%
1/  The vesel will operate 150 days a year.  Catch will be 220 kg/day in year 1,
250kg/day in the following years. 40% of the catch is smaller than 2 kg.
Prices paid for smaller fish will be US$191.55, larger fish get US$255.95,
prices are paid in MRs converted at the official accounting rate of US$1.00 =
MRs 3.93.
2/ Building cost of new fishing boat MRs 22,300.00.
3/  22 HP diesel engine CIF Male US$4,700.00 converted at the official accounting
rate of US$1.00 = MRs 3.93.  Installation costs are MRs 1,600.00.
4/ Crew share is 40% of gross sales minus fuel costs and gear costs.
5/ 60% of fuel supplies obtained at estimated future rate of MRs 1.40/liter,*
40% from Male at MRs 1.64/liter lubrication 10% of fuel costs. Vessels
operate 10 hours per fishing day, effective power use 16 HP. Fuel
consumption 0.2 liter per hour per effective horsepower. Additional use
of vessels for transport 15 days.
6/ Engine maintenance and repair 5% of engine costs converted at commercial
exchange rate of US$1.00   MRs 8.80 (Spare parts are presently available
only at prices converted at the commercial exchange rate). Hull maintenance
and repair MRs 650.00 per year.
7/ First two years 2% of new vessel value (MRs 22,290.00 for hull and MRs 20,070.00
for engine), year 3-5:  2.14% of new value, year 5-10:  2.21% of new value.
8/ Poles and hooks MRs 500.00; bait net MRs 250.00.
9/ Value of 10 year old motorized vessel MRs 14,000.00.
10/ Repayment of loan of 8 years at 9% interest.
* See para 6.05.



- 34 -
ANNEX 4
Table 5
MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections 1/
5 MRCs
(MRs '000)
 ---------------- years ---------- -------
1          2          3           4         5-15
I. Cash Inflow
Gross Sales  2/                            (1)       --        975.0    1552.5    1920.0    1920.0
Borrowers Contributions  3/                         199.4      132.9        --         --         --
Loan Amount  4/                                    3415.2      223.5        --         --         --
Total Cash Inflow                   (2)    3614.6    1331.4    1552.5    1920.0    1920.0
II Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Wages, Allowance  5/                              51.6      154.8      154.8       154.8      154.8
Fuel, Lubricants  6/                              --         21.6       21.6        21.6       21.6
Spare Parts  7/                                   --        337.5      461.3       810.0    1080.0
Insurance  81                                     26.4       79.4       79.4        79.4       79.4
Interest on Working Capital  9/                  17.8        53.6       53.6       53.6        53.6
Miscellaneous  10/                                17.3       52.0        52.0       52.0       52.0
Total Operating Costs               (3)      113.1       698.9      822.7    1171.4    1441.4
Investment Costs  11/                      (4)    3614.6       356.4        --         --         --
Debt Servicing  12/                                  --         --         464.1      464.1      464.1
Total Cash Outflow                  (5)    3727.2    1055.3    1286.8    1635.5    1905.5
III  Net Cash Flow (2) - (5)                        (6)     [112.6]     276.1       265.7      284.5       14.5
IV Financial Benefits
Benefits (1)                               (7)       --        975.0    1552.5    1920.0    1920.0
Costs (3) + (4)                            (8)    3727.2    1055.3         822.7    1171.4    1441.4
Net Benefits (7) - (8)                     (9)   [3727.2]      [79.7]      729.8      748.6      478.6
Financial Rate of Return 8.6Z
1/  Preliminary data, as future status of MRCs being negotiated between GOM and Yanmar Company.
2/ These 5 MRCs will service 200 vessels of the existing fleet and the project fleet
Fleet Services       Repairs Per Vessel        Total income from rppairs
Year 1-
Year 2            250              MRs 2.1 thousand           MRs  525.0 thousand
Year 3            525                      -                  MRs 1102.5 thousand
Year 4-15         700                      -                  MRs 1470.0 thousand
In addition, the 5 MRCs will sell annually at cost price, spare parts for the rest of existing
fleet (500 vessels) serviced by the existing MRCs. (500 x MRs 900)
3/ Local costs of MRC buildings, 3 in year 1, 2 in year 2.
4/ Foreign costs of MRC buildings, spare parts and MRC equipment.
5/ 2 mechanics per MRC @ MRs 800 per month; 2 administrators e MRs 500 per month; 2 bookkeepers e
MRs 500 per month; 1 Manager @ MRs 2,000 per month; 3 assistants 9 MRs 300 per month. Personnel
starts month 8 of year 1.
6/ Diesel generators operate 4 hours for 200 days, 15 effective HP. 0.2 litre per effective HP per
hour. Fuel costs MRs 1.64/litre. Lubrication 10% fuel costs.
7/ Vessels use MRs 900 worth of spare parts each year. New orders for spare parts will amount to
50% of spare parts used in year 2 and 3, 75% in year 4 and 100% in following years.  Fleet size is
750 in year 2, 1025 in year 3 and 1200 in following years.
8/ 2% of spare parts stock, buildings and equipment value.
9/ Working capital 10% of investment costs, interest rate 13.5% annually.
I0/ Office expenses MRs 12,000, transport NRs 40,000.
11/  Spare parts, MRC equipment and MRCs.
12/  Repayment period 15 years, 2 years grace, interest 5X interest capitalized during first 2 years.



MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
MOTORIZED TRADITIONAL POLE AND LINE VESSEL, ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Without Project                     With Project
-------- years -------         ----------- years -----------
1      2 - 9      10            1         2      3 - 9    10
I Benefits
Gross Earnings  1/                    14.2     14.2    14.2           56.7      66.3    66.3    66.3
Total Benefits                   (1)    14.2       14.2    14.2          56.7      66.3    66.3    66.3
II Costs
Operational Costs
Wages  2/                          5.6       5.6      5.6           5.6       5.6      5.6     5.6
Fuel, Lubricants  3/                 -        -        -            9.5       9.5      9.5     9.5
Maintenance  4/                      .8        .8      .8           2.8       2.8      2.8     2.8
Vessel Insurance  5/                 -        -        -              .8       .8       .9      .9
Miscellaneous  6/                    .5        .5      .5            .8        .8       .8       .8
Total Operating Costs         (2)      6.9      6.9      6.9          19.5      19.5    19.6    19.6
Investment Costs 7/           (3)    12.5        -    [ 7.0] 3/       55.9       -        -     [11.0]
Total Costs                      (4)    19.4        6.9   [ 0.1]         75.4      19.5    19.6       8.6
III  Net Benefits                            [ 5.2]      7.3    14.3          [18.7]    46.8    46.7    57.7
IV  Net Incremental Benefits                   -         -        -          [13.5]    39.5    39.4    43.4
Economic Rate of Return over 100%
1/  Export earnings converted at the commercial exchange rate of US$1.00 = MRs 8.80.  No export                        b M
tax at MRs 78.80 per ton.                                                                                            t M
2/  Opportunity costs of wages equal to earnings of non-mechanized fishing vessel crew.                                  X
3/  Same as financial analysis,but fuel price is MRs 1.64/liter for all fuel
4/  Same as financial analysis
5/  Same as financial analysis
6/ Same as financial analysis
7/ Same as financial analysis, but engine costs converted at commercial exchange rate.



- 36 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
New Motorized Fishing Vessel Economic Rate of Return
------------ years 
1       2        3-9      10
I Benefits
Gross Earnings  1/               (1)    69.6    78.9    78.9    78.9
Total Benefits             (2)    69.6    78.9    78.9    78.9
II Costs
Operational Costs
Wages  2/                              5.6     5.6      5.6      5.6
Fuel, lubrication  3/                  9.5     9.5      9.5      9.5
Maintenance  4/                        2.8     2.8      2.8      2.8
Vessel Insurance  5/                    .8       .8      .9       .9
Miscellaneous  6/                       .8       .8      .8       .8
Total Operating Costs    (3)    19.5    19.5    19.6    19.6
Investment Costs  7/             (4)    65.3      --       --    [14.0]
Total Costs                (5)    84.8    19.5    19.6       5.6
III  Neit Benefits (2) - (5)              (6)   [15.2]   59.4    59.3    73.3
Economic Rate of Return over 100%
1/  Financial earnings converted at conmercial exchange rate of US$1.00 = MRs 8.80.
No export tax of MRs 78.80/ton.
2/  Opportunity costs of wages equal to earnings of non-mechanized fishing
vessel crew.
3/  Same as financial analysis, but fuel price at MRs 1.64/liter for all fuel.
4/  Same as financial analysis
5/  Same as financial analysis
6/  Same as financial analysis
7/  Same as firancial analysis, but engine costs converted at commercial
exchange rate.



- 37 -
ANNEX 5
Table 3
MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
Composite Economic Cost/Benefit Analysis 1/
(MRs '000)
------------- ECONOMIC COSTS ----------------------   ---- ECONOMIC BENEFITS ----
Navigational Technical
Mechanization   MRCs        Aids           Assistance   Mechanization    MRCs
(C 1) 2/     (C 2) 3/   (C 3) 3/         (C 4) 5/        (B 1)  2/     (B 2) 4/
Periods
1                     0.0       3,727.2      381.0           792.0             0.0             0.0
2               16,840.0        1,055.3        5.0        1,809.0        13,042.5           975.0
3               17,130.0          822.7        5.0             0.0       25,907.5         1,552.5
4                6,845.0        1,171.4        5.0             0.0       28,060.0         1,920.0
5-10             6,867.5        1,441.4        5.0             0.0       28,060.0         1,920.0
11              18,794.0        1,441.4        5.0             0.0       28,060.0         1,920.0
12              16,633.5        1,441.4        5.0             0.0       28,060.0         1,920.0
13-14            6,867.5        1,441.4        5.0             0.0       28,060.0         1,920.0
15              [4,154.5]       1,241.4        5.0             0.0       28,060.0         1,920.0
Base Economic Rate of Return 100.6%
B 1 Down 15%  75.8%
B 1 Down 30%  53.1%
B 2 Down 15%  98.8%
B 2 Down 30%  97.1%
C 1 Up   15%  83.6%
C 1 Up   30%  69.6%
C 2 Up   15%  94.8%
C 2 Up   30%  89.6%
C 3 Up   15% 100.1%
C 3 Up   30%  99.6%
B 1 Down 30%
B 2 Down 30%
C 1 Up   30%
C 2 Up   30%
C 3 Up   30%
C 4 Up   30%  25.6%
1/ Composite project includes mechanization, MRCs, navigational aids, technical services
and technical assistance.
2/ A total of 275 vessels will be mechanized in year 2 (of which 50 new vessels); 225
vessels will be mechanized in year 3 (of which 25 new vessels). All vessels are
assumed to replace their engines after 10 years' service. Rest value of engines
in year 15: 40% of installation costs.
3/ Economic costs same as financial costs.
4/ Economic benefits same as financial benefits.
5/  Calculated at comnerical exchange rate, includes technical services.



- 38 -
ANNEX 6
MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements 1/
IDA FY                                        Cumulative
and Quarters             Disbursements  2/   Disbursements
----------US$    '000   - ----------
September 1979                  -                    -
December 1979                  50                    50
March 1980                  1,490                 1,540
June 1980                     140                 1,680
September 1980              1,135                 2,815
December 1980                   -                 2,815
March 1981                    652                 3,467
June 1981                       -                 3,467
September 1981                  -                 3,467
December 1981                   -                 3,467
March 1982  3/
1/  Credit is expected to become effective June 30, 1979.
2/ Includes disbursements for technical assistance financed by UNDP.
31 Closing date is assumed to be February 28, 1982.



- 39 -                        ANNEX 7
MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
Related Documents and Data in Project File
A. Reports on Studies in the Sector
1. Interim Report, Feasibility Study and Project Preparation for the
Fishing Sector in the Republic of Maldives. GOPA, Germany, September 1977.
2. Final Report, Feasibility Study and Project Preparation for the Fishing
Sector in the Republic of Maldives. GOPA, Germany, February 1978.
3. Report on the Marine Fisheries Development Prospects of the Republic
of Maldives. FAO Department of Fisheries - Investment Center Joint
Working Group. Rome, July 1976.
4. Report on the Fishing Industry of the Maldives. Anonymous, December 1960.
5. Pelagic Fishes and Fisheries of the Indian Ocean. Richard S. Shomura and
Richard N. Uchida, paper presented at the Biological Seminar of the
Cooperative Investigations in the North and Central Western Indian Ocean.
Nairobi. April 1976.
6. Report on Mechanization in Maldives. Yanmar Company, Tokyo, October 1978.
7. Recent Economic Development, Maldives. IMF, October 1978.
8. Catch statistics by Atoll and by Species 1972 - 1977. MOF, Male.
B.  Reports related to the Project, Working papers, Tables, Drawings and Maps
1. Mission Consultant's Report on Vessels (C. Hamlin).
2. Mission Consultant's Report on Aids to Navigation (O. de Graaf)
3. Mission Consultant's Report on Pole and Line Fishing (R. Kinney)
4. Mission Consultant's Report on Water Supply (M. West)
5. Vessel Blueprints
6. Fisheries Development Project. Project Document of UNDP financed
Technical Assistance Project



- 40 -
MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
MINISTRY OF FISHERIES
Organization Chart
Government of
Maldives
Minister of
Fisheries
IIKZ
Deputy Minister
of Fisheries
Under Secretary                                                                      Under Secretary
Planning and
Development Section
[echnical Development                                                                       Accounts and
ad MechanizationAconsd
an    ection                                                                          Statistics Section
_   Section
World Bank -19699



MA LD IVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
Government of Maldives, Organization Chart
M,nistry of   Ministry of                Mi~~~~~nitr offMiistr  of                           Me reidnitryoiityo
Fshery   Education                     Health                    Transport AuitJusartme tice                            ExteTrnalAffir
0 ffice      Finance                        Organizat~~~~~~~Ofice
Department of
Tourism and                                                                                                 C
Foreign Investment                                                     Treasury
Ministry of                 Ministry of                 Ministry of                 Ministry of                 Ministry of                  Ministry of
Fishery                   Education                      HeSftth                   Transport                    Justice                  External Affairs
Attornef   enera
-0 and Broadcasting     |
Department
of TEle-tict
cormmuiations
World Bank- 19700



MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Activity                                   1979                                   1980                                   1981
Activity_
Year 1                                 Year 2                                 Year 3
MECHANIZATION
Procurement                                           E  _
Installation of
Engines                                                                                     -
Installation of
MRC's                                                           -        -        -        -
AIDS TO NAVIGATION
Procurement                                           *  _           _   _                                                                                                                       4
Installation of
Lights
Installation of
Buoys and Markers                                                                  -       _-                  _        -
UNDP FINANCED
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Naval (Architect (8 m/m)                                                            -         -  _
2 Master Fishermen (7 in/m)                                                         -  
Feasibility Study (2 m/in)                                                  _
Navigational Aids Specialist (% mrm)n
Legend
-    Indicate Planning and Procedures
Indicates Execution                                                                World Bank - 19772



MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
UNIMPROVED MECHANIZED POLE AND LINE VESSEL
WT .
I   I   [  t  I     I   I   I  I   AU   FG84
0                                         10 Feet
1                               Mtr
Fs ingPls
Platform~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
Fish                  m St~~~I
Well                   mii 
n   e                           L o  -   -   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1ai Vl
I  I~ ~~~~----------
L   I~ ~~~~~~~,hq oe,BitPl,  t
I  j~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ordBn                                      91



MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
PROPOSED SECOND GENERATION POLE AND LINE VESSEL
//         ~~~Throttle                                                                                    
E t cug= 1l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- T- =/
~~~~~~  r-   L'                                    1                              j        Forepeak
Fish     ii   Bait   II  wells            Hold       i 
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- L - - - - H e0                                       --j L 
WT.                           ~~~~~~~WT.
                                            10 Feet
*                                    I   I    I   ~I  I  I   I    I          I    10  Fee
0             1               2             3 Meters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I i   atchI.  i  
I                                        I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Hatch                    .                 l,
Hatch ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ol a  Hatc-1Board



MALDIVES
FISHERIES PROJECT
PROPOSED IMPROVED MECHANIZED POLE AND LINE VESSEL
II  Fish   ~i    Bait            Wells   IIHold
t4t _; -                                                                                             - - - - -
-   -     -     - -     - -     -     -     -    --lII-                                           -                 
VWT.                                        WT.
0                      5                      10 Feet
0              1        o     2              3  Meters
<_      >         =:<                                 |  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fixed |     Deck
oo                                   ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~Hatch    |                i        Poles Spars, Etc.       ~
\ s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hatch                                                                             llPoles, SPars, Etc. 
\= > Hatch ] j | i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FixedDc I
World Bank -19715



r,



g O ' ' - ' ' ' ' ' u . . . . >,, ,,, ,, ,, ,, , , , ,, ,o.                  O.
M  -::                                                                                                 
m                                                           S
_ a:- ,
iL  ':  ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
a ~        ~~~~~~~~                                  Ui .2                                                                                                                        0          i, zc               
>  <   -i   e  o  -  Z Z : W Z F J ..... ...~~~~~~~9                     V 
I E  - F - t ffi i 0 - O 2 2 X W . uj                     
......... .....  ..............D42- > 8.
L                                                                                                                                    5<          
\                      -a                                               2---                                           =     z   ;   ;,Z                       s .             ...
z J-                                                                               t1U L                                                8O        "   
_ a .;@. s - - - CL; > <I (~~~~~~~3 *4-goc
-   t   ,.>>z;,:i't,'.-ijf:4   '                                                              $          .                              :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .t -                                                                                       r -tv  
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 



