Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14997-GUA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GUYANA
SECONDARY SCHOOL REFORM PROJECT
May 15, 1996
Human and Social Capital Development Group
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



- jj_-
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit  =   Guyanese Dollar (G$)
US$1.00  =   G$143.00
G$1.00  =   US$0.006993
Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
School Year
September I - June 30
Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACEO ... . Assistant Chief Education Officer
CDIU ... . Curriculum Development and Implementation Unit
CEO ...     . Chief Education Officer
CHS ...     . Community High School
CIMAT ....     Curriculum, Instructional Materials and Assessment Team
CPCE ....       Cyril Potter College of Education
CXC ....        Caribbean Examinations Council
DEO ....       District Education Officer
DES ...     . District Education Supervisor
DCEO .... Deputy Chief Education Officer
DPS ....       Deputy Permanent Secretary
EPU ...     . Education Planning Unit
EU ....       European Union
GSS ....        General Secondary School
GTU ....       Guyana Teachers Union
ICB ..     .. International Competitive Bidding
IDA ....       International Development Association
IDB ....        Inter-American Development Bank
IRC ..     .. Incremental Recurrent Cost
LIB ..     .. Limited International Competitive Bidding
MEC ... . Ministry of Education and Cultural Development
MOF ... . Ministry of Finance
MPWCR ....  Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Regional Development
NCB ....        National Competitive Bidding
NCERD ....  National Centre for Education Resources Development
PAP ....       Public Administration Project
PEIP ....      Primary Education Improvement Programme (IDB financed)
PIU ..     .. Project Implementation Unit



- iii -
PS ..      .. Permanent Secretary
PSC ....        Public Service Commission
PT ..      .. Primary Top (Secondary Department of Primary School)
RA ..      .. Regional Administration
RDC ....        Regional Democratic Council
REdO .      ... Regional Education Officer
RExO ....       Regional Executive Officer
RMT ... . Reform Management Team
SAC ...     . Social Awareness Campaign
SIAC ....       School Improvement Advisory Committee
SIMAP ....        Social Impact Amelioration Programme
SIP ....        School Improvement Plan
SIS ..     .. School Information System
SME ....        School Mapping Exercise
SSEE ....       Secondary School Entrance Examinations
SSPE ....       Secondary School Proficiency Examinations
SSRP ....       Secondary School Reform Programme
TSC ....        Teachers Service Commission
TA ....       Technical Assistance
UG ..      .. University of Guyana
UNICEF ....    United Nations Children's Fund
UNDP ....       United Nations Development Programme






- Iv -
GUYANA
Secondary School Reform Support Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
BASIC DATA SHEET ......................................................                                                                       vi
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................................................                                                             vii
1. INTRODUCTION .......................................................1
A. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL SETTING ....................................................................1I
B. OVERVIEW  OF THE EDUCATION SECTOR .....................................................................1
C. MAIN ISSUES IN SECONDARY EDUCATION .....................................................................4
D. GOVERNMENT SECTOR OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY ....................................................................                         10
E. IDA'S ROLE AND STRATEGY .....................................................................11
F. LESSONS LEARNED FROM  PAST OPERATIONS IN THE COUNTRY/SECTOR ............................................................ 11
2. THE PROJECT .......................................................                                                                        13
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ....................................................................                                                13
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ....................................................................                                               13
3. IMPLEMENTATION ......................................................                                                                      23
A. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ....................................................................                                        23
B. PROCUREMENT ....................................................................                                                       25
C. DISBURSEMENT ..............;26
D. ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ...........................                                                                                    28
E. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ...........................                                                                      29
F. REPORTING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION ...............................................                                                   31
G. BENEFITS AND RISKS ...............................................                                                                     32
H. ENVIRONMENT ...............................................                                                                            33
1. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...............................................                                                  33
ANNEX I: STATISTICAL TABLES .....................................                                                                            35
ANNEX II: THE EDUCATION SECTOR - ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONAL
This report is based on the findings of an identification mission which visited Guyana in September/October 1994 consisting of Messrs./Mmes.
Hideki Mori (LASHC, Mission Leader), Michael Potashnik (LASHC) and Lola Williams (Consultant); an pre-appraisal mission in March 1995
consisting of Messrs./Mmes. Hideki Mori, Carolyn Winter (HDD), John Anderson (Consultant) and Gus Brest van Kempen (Consultant), a
Jamaica study-tour in March 1995 participated by Messrs./Mmes. Kenneth Hunte (Special Advisor to the Minister), Evelyn Hamilton (Chief
Planning Officer), Edward Williams (Assistant Chief Education Officer, CHS), Ruth Downer (Curriculum Development Officer) from
Guyana's Ministry of Education and Cultural Development (MEC), accompanied by Bank staff Messrs./Mmes. Hideki Mori, Michael
Potashnik, Ginger Reich (LASHC) and Carolyn Winter; visit of Guyanese delegation in May 1995 consisting of Dr. Kenneth Hunte and Mrs.
Evelyn Hamilton (Chief Planning Officer, MEC); an appraisal mission in June 1995 participated by Messrs./Mmes. Hideki Mori, Michael
Potashnik, Carolyn Winter, Doug Adkins (Consultant), Gus Brest van Kempen, Lola Williams and Adelle Brown (Consultant). Peer reviewers
were Messrs./Mmes. Vincent Greany (ASTHR), Alfonso de Guzman (EA3PH) and Carolyn Winter (HDD). Managing Director, Project
Advisor and Country Sector-Leader were Messrs. Paul Isenman, Robert Crown and Julian Schweitzer. Administrative and secretarial assistance
was provided by Mmes. Nelly Vergara and Lucine Juskalian (LASHC).



RESPONSIBILITIES .....................................................................................                                       41
ANNEX III: STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION SECTOR AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT .......................... 45
ANNEX IV: SALARY SCALE COMPARISON - CIVIL SERVICE VS. TEACHING SERVICE ................... 49
ANNEX  V: PILOT  SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT  PLANS ..................................................................................... 51
ANNEX  VI: SCHOOL QUALITY  IMPROVEMENT .....................................................................................                     55
ANNEX  VII: MONITORING  AND  EVALUATION .....................................................................................                  59
ANNEX  Vill: PLANNED  CONSULTANTS' SERVICES ..................................................................................... 63
ANNEX IX: DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE OF PROCUREMENT SERVICES FOR THE MINISTRY
OF EDUCATION  AND  CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT ..................................................................................... 65
ANNEX  X: PROJECT  COSTS AND  EXPENDITURES ..................................................................................... 67
ANNEX  XI: DRAFT PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  PLAN ............................................................................ 77



- vi -
BASIC DATA SHEET
Guyana   Year    Source
A. General Country Data
1 Population Estimates (Thousand)                                                 806   1992        a
2 Population Projection (Thousand)                                                900   1992        c
3 GNP per Capita (US$)                                                            525   1994        e
4 Average Annual GNP Growth Rate (1980-91)                                        -3.8 1980-1991    c
5 Area (thousand Km2)                                                             215   1992        a
B. Social Indicators
1 Crude birth rate (per 1000)                                                      26   1992        c
2 Crude death rate (per 1000)                                                        7   1992       c
3 Average annual rate of population growth (%)                                     1.1 1960-1992    c
4 Total Fertility Rate (Births per Woman)                                          2.6  1987-92      b
5 Infant Mortality Rate (per 1000 live births)                                      48  1987-92     b
6 Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                                                64.6   1992       c
C. Education Data
1 Gross Enrollment Rates
Preschool                                                                         71   1988       d
Primary                                                                          112   1990       c
Secondary                                                                         58   1990       c
Post-Secondary                                                                   5.1   1988       d
2 Expenditure Data
Total Public Education Spending (% of GDP)                                       3.5   1994        e
Total Public Education Spending (% Total Recurrent Expenditures)                 5.9   1994        e
Total Public Education Spending (% Total Recurrent Expenditures Net of Debt Services)  12.8   1994  e
Shares of Public Education Expenditure
Primary (%)                                                                    33   1994        e
Secondary (%)                                                                  25   1994        e
Higher (%)                                                                     20   1994        e
3 Efficiency Data
StudentlTeacher Ratio
Primary                                                                        34   1990        c
Secondary                                                                      35  1980-85      b
Repetition Rates (%)
Primary                                                                         4 1987-1992    b
Sources and Notes: a) World Development Report, 1994; b) Social Indicators of Development, 1994;
c) UNDP Human Development Report, 1994; d) UNESCO Statistical Year Book, 1994.
e) Guyana Ministry of Finance and World Bank estimates



I



- vii -
GUYANA
SECONDARY SCHOOL REFORM PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower: Republic of Guyana
Implementing Agency:  Ministry of Education and Cultural Development (MEC)
Beneficiary: MEC, Regional and District Education Departments, Students and Teachers
of secondary schools including the 12 Pilot Schools.
Poverty: Not applicable.
Amount: Credit of SDR 11.8 million (US$ 17.3 million equivalent)
Terms: Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity, including 10 years of grace
Commitment Fee: 0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver
Financing Plan:  See para. 3.5
Map: IBRD 25723
Project ID  GY-PA-7269



a



1.    INTRODUCTION
A.    Economic and Social Setting
1.1    Guyana embarked on a radical economic reform in mid- 1988, fundamentally reversing the thrust
of its policies of the preceding twenty years. The change was propelled by a protracted period of
economic and social decline, caused by excessive reliance on state-led economic activity and highly
interventionist policies. Past mismanagement left the country in dire straits, with widespread poverty
and dilapidated economic and social infrastructure. Per capita GNP of US$525 (1994) is among the
lowest in the Western Hemisphere, and despite the forgiveness of much of its bilateral component, public
external debt, at US$2,500 per capita, is one of the world's highest. Guyana needs sustained economic
growth to recover lost ground. Recovery from decades of emigration of many of its most skilled citizens
will take much longer.
1.2    Guyana's Economic Recovery Program, which was spearheaded by stabilization and adjustment
programs with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, has been very successful, despite
limited amounts of incremental external assistance. Within three years of commencing the program, the
economy responded strongly to the improved macroeconomic management and incentive framework.
Real GDP rose by an average of 8% during the four years 1991-1994. Except for bauxite, traditional
industries have largely recovered, and gold mining and forestry have grown rapidly with large inflows of
foreign investment. The government's current account deficit has reached manageable levels, inflation
has been reduced from 100% in 1991 to 16% in 1994, and the exchange rate has stabilized.
1.3   In a context of limited budgetary resources, inefficient use of these resources, and public control
of all education services, Guyana's education indicators fell from the highest to among the lowest in the
Caribbean. Learning, as measured by examination outcomes, fell sharply, student drop-out rates
increased, textbooks and other teaching aides disappeared from schools, and teacher quality fell as
qualified and trained personnel left a sector in which salaries declined sharply.
1.4   These conditions continued to worsen in the initial phase of the recovery program, but the new
democratically elected Government of 1992 placed new priority on the social sectors and increased
budget allocations accordingly. Resources for the sector, however, continue to be low in spite of
severely dilapidated infrastructure, a depleted teaching force and diminished institutional capacity. In
this context, there is a continuing need for major external assistance.
B.    Overview of the Education Sector
1.5    Enrollment. Guyana's education system consists of: (a) preschool education of I to 2 years
(for 4- and 5-year olds); (b) primary schooling of 6 years duration; (c) secondary schooling of 3 to 5
years; and (d) higher education (comprising the University of Guyana, several technical institutes, a
teacher training college and a small "sixth form" program in seven secondary schools). School
attendance is compulsory from ages six to fourteen and a half years.
1.6    Currently, primary and secondary education gross enrollment rates are estimated to be about
95% and 60%, respectively, which compare favorably with other Caribbean countries (91% and 55% on
the average, respectively). The secondary education enrollment rate is high for a low-income country
and comparable to the average of upper-middle income countries (54%). Data from 1990 show that of
the 90 to 95% of primary students who continue on to the seventh grade, 86%, 77%, 64% and 30%



- 2 -
reached grades 8, 9, 10 and 11, respectively. Enrollment in grades 10 and 11 might be even higher but
for children streamed out of the system (para. 1.19). A household survey taken in 1992-1993 indicates
that the very high demand for places has probably not changed materially since 1988, but with the
growth of the informal economy, the labor market benefits of staying in school to receive low-quality
schooling are likely to decline drastically in the future for large numbers of young people. An early
indicator of possible decline is that only 63% of the enrolled students regularly attend class (1988 data).
Table 1.1: Recurrent Education Expenditures, 1994, By Region, (G$m)
Center                               Regions                                   Total Guyana
2    3               4                5    6    10  11,7 .8, 9
Real
Western               Increase
Central             President's George- Region 4                 Border                 1992-
Ministry              College   town    Other -                  Regions  Amount  %    1994/a
Nursery/b                19   29                  40      32   15   16   16           9    175    9       152%
Prmary/b/c               57   65                  98      93   38  115   49          102    617   33      155%
Secondary/b/c    62 /d   25   51          59     123      38   22   49   26          16    470   25       133%
Post Secondary    381      -     -         -       -       -    -    -    -            -    381   20      188%
Other Education    240     -     -         -       -       -    -    -    -            -    240   13       93%
Total Education    683   101  145         59    261      162   75   179   91         126   1,883  100     142%
Culture & Other  96        -    -          -       -       -    -    -    -            -     96    -       58%
Total Ministry  779      101  145         59    261      162   75  179   91          126   1,980    -     133%
Source: Guyana Estimates of the Public Sector, 1993 and 1995 and World Bank estimates
/a Deflated using changes in the exchange rate and in international prces.
/b The distnbution of 1994 expenditures among levels is derved from 1990 data for regions 2,3,5,6,7,10, from the 1993 budget
submissions for regions 1,4,8,9, and from 1994 budget data for Georgetown and President's College.
/c Expenditures on secondary departments of primary schools are included under prmary.
/d External examinations
1.7     Sector Finance. Guyana's economic problems have had serious consequences for the funding
of education. Between 1984 and 1992, government recurrent education expenditure declined from 18%
to 4%, partly due to heavier debt service obligations, but mostly due to reallocations to other categories
of expenditure. The government that came into power in 1992 has increased fiscal effort for education
significantly. Real education expenditures for 1994 were 42% higher than for 1992 (Table 1.1).
Nonetheless, education was allocated only 6% of recurrent expenditures in 1994, a level still far below
comparator countries in the Caribbean and elsewhere (Annex I, Table 6). Educational expenditures were
distributed in 1994 as follows: primary (33%), secondary (25%), post-secondary (20%) and nursery and
other (22%).
1.8     The years of neglect have left the sector badly weakened, and substantial injections of resources
are needed to revitalize it. Resource constraints have had their greatest impact on teacher salaries, which
fell below the estimated poverty level in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Low salaries and poor working
conditions led to teacher flight, leaving schools understaffed and staffed by unqualified and untrained
teachers. By 1990, approximately 40 percent of teachers at the primary and secondary level were in the
untrained or unqualified categories. Recognizing the importance of better teacher compensation, the
new government financed a large, real increase in teacher salaries at the beginning of 1994 -
approximately 70% increase for most grades and somewhat higher increases in some senior grades.
1.9     Reduced education finances have also meant that less resources have been allocated to the
purchase of textbooks and other leaming materials. With the exception of those texts recently distributed
to students in the upper secondary stream' in the first three years, classrooms are typically devoid of
these important materials. During the past two decades, capital expenditures have been minimal and the
educational plant at all levels is now severely dilapidated. Present efforts will not rapidly reverse this
'i.e., in the General Secondary Schools (para. 1.17).



-3 -
dire situation. Education's share of budgeted capital expenditures for 1994 - 7% - was at about the same
low level as recurrent expenditures. More than 90% was donor-financed and virtually none was used for
secondary schools.
1.10   Performance. Guyana's education system suffers both from poor quality and efficiency. Just
how poor is the performance is difficult to assess in the absence of an objective evaluation program.
Despite the strong emphasis on testing in Guyana (there are five main national or international tests
between ages 11 and 16), only the international test taken at age 16 (Caribbean Examination Council -
CXC) is comparable over time. Taken by less-than-20% of Guyanese sixteen-year-olds who are
considered to be best-prepared, this exam shows very poor performance compared to students from other
Caribbean countries. In 1992 , even with widespread private tutoring, only 10% of those sitting the exam
passed the English test and 18% the Math . This compares with the average passing rates for 1 0 other
Caribbean countries in 1989 of 36% in English and 33% in Math (Annex 1, Table 7). The scores of
Guyanese takers were also on a downward trend of 1-2% per year over the decade prior to 1992. These
poor and down-trending results are a crude but clear summary indicator of the deteriorated state of
Guyana's primary and secondary schools. If the best students perform at this level, how much worse off
must the majority be.
1.11   Internal Efficiency. Data on internal efficiency is sparse, but repetition and dropout rates are
reputed to be low in primary school. Low dropout is roughly confirmed by census data. At the
secondary level, repetition is also reputed to be low, but a crude estimate for the upper stream for 1990
indicates that repetition may be much higher however - in the 20-25% range. Attendance is also known
to be a large problem throughout the primary and secondary years. Incomplete 1988 school survey data
indicate that on an average day somewhat less than two-thirds of the secondary students were in
attendance (Annex I, Table 9). The secondary attendance problem was generally more severe in the
lower streams and the higher grades. One anomaly in this picture, however, was the contrast between the
attendance rate for girls in and out of Georgetown. Outside of Georgetown, upper-stream secondary girls
had the best attendance rate among all streams and genders (79%); in Georgetown, by contrast, they had
the worst rate (50%). This disparity in female attendance rates could indicate the particular influence of
gender-specific employment opportunities in the urban labor market.
1.12   Governance of Primary and Secondary Education (Annex II). In 1985, education functions at
the primary and secondary levels were decentralized under a broad decentralization program initiated in
1980. The present government has retained this structure, under which, except for Georgetown, school
administration and finance are controlled by regional administrations in Guyana's 10 regions.
Georgetown's schools are directly administered by the Assistant Chief Education Officer (ACEO),
Georgetown but support functions are provided by the central Ministry of Education and Cultural
Development (MEC). MEC's chief responsibilities are to set broad sector policy; maintain a national
curriculum; develop, procure and distribute textbooks and instructional materials; coordinate national
examinations; and monitor education quality nationwide. The regional administrations are appointed
bodies consisting of a political council (the Regional Democratic Council) containing representatives
from the major political parties in proportion to regional election results and a Regional Executive
Officer (RExO) reporting to it. The latter has responsibility for the delivery of various health,
agriculture, public works and education services.
1.13   In most regions, deputies in the functional areas - in education, the Regional Education Officers
(REdOs) - carry out the day-to-day management of the sector and are charged with carrying out national
policies, which are determined by the respective national ministries, as well as regional policies, which



-4 -
are determined by the regional administrations. In their management of regional school systems, REdOs
receive administrative and financial guidance from the RExOs.
1.14   MEC has significant power over appointments, including those of the REdOs. REdOs are civil
servants appointed by the Public Service Commission (PSC) after consultation with MEC. MEC then
assigns REdOs to the various regions. Similarly, school principals and assistant principals are appointed
by the separate Teachers' Service Commission (TSC), instead of the PSC, in consultation with MEC.
Except for temporary-teacher appointments, which are made directly by the regional administrations,
MEC sets the qualification criteria for teachers at all levels, who are also appointed through the TSC.
Teachers are paid according to a national pay scale determined by the government and revised
periodically.
1.15   Budget administration in education is weak in Guyana. Although some regional administrations
are more systematic than others, as a rule, rational criteria for resource allocation are absent. At the
central government level, allocation of budgets to regions for education and other decentralized services
has been, until very recently, negotiated directly between MOF and regional administrations with little
direct input from MEC and the other line ministries. Under the new practice, MEC is responsible for
reviewing and clearing budget submissions from regional administrations before they are sent to MOF.
However, MEC lacks appropriate instruments and adequate human resources to carry out its new tasks.
As a result, the budgetary influence of the regional administrations is still decisive. MEC has little scope
to fund initiatives designed to accomplish national educational priorities, except in Georgetown where
budget negotiations with MOF are carried out by the deputy permanent secretary of MEC. This results
in widely differing levels of resources provided to individual regions (Annex III, Figure 2). For instance,
secondary schools in Region 3, on one side of Georgetown, received about G$8,900 per student in 1994,
while those in Region 4, on the other side, received G$6,500 per student. MEC has some influence over
regional administrations by means of donor or government financial resources for texts, capital
expenditure and special projects, as well as technical resources in areas such as training and curriculum.
1.16   Shortcomings in the structure and operation of the decentralized system have severely weakened
educational management and contributed to declining education quality and to inequities in educational
opportunities. Because the decentralized system still lacks appropriate instruments to hold regional
administrations accountable to the MEC and its clients (students, parents and local citizens), regional
education planning can be divorced from both national education policies and local concerns. In this
setting, budgeting and management capacity at the school level have been greatly weakened. Although
vestiges of an orderly system of school management remain, school principals are unable to employ
sound planning and budgeting practices in a context where it is unclear what resources the school will
receive in a given year and according to what schedule.
C.    Main Issues in Secondary Education
1.17   Introduction. Secondary schooling is offered in three streams - General Secondary Schools
(GSS), Community High Schools (CHS), and secondary departments of primary schools (Primary Tops-
PT). Entrance to the different secondary streams is determined by a student's performance on the
Secondary School Entrance Examination (SSEE) taken in the final year of primary school. Students
scoring in the top 40 percent generally gain entrance to GSSs where the curriculum ostensibly prepares
them to take the Caribbean Examination Council (CXC) examinations and possibly the General
Certificate of Education (GCE), a British-based examination, in their fifth year. Lower scoring students
gain entrance to the less prestigious four-year CHSs, where the last two years' curriculum is more



-5 -
vocationally oriented. CHS students take the locally administered Secondary School Proficiency
Examination (SSPE) in the third and fourth years. Students who do not take the SSEE, often because
they exceed the age limit for the test, are only eligible to attend the secondary departments of primary
schools- "primary tops", which provide three years of secondary schooling. Other students, whose
parents believe it is impractical for them to travel to a more distant CHS, also enroll in the primary tops.
Movement among the three streams is minimal; high CHS/PT scorers on the SSPE given at the end of
year 3 are eligible to transfer to a GSS school and ultimately take the CXC examinations, but they must
repeat the third year in the GSS. Very few students - less than 50 in the 1990 school year - currently
make the transfer. Those not transferring are streamed out of the secondary system after three years in
the primary tops and after four years in the CHS.
(1)    Equity and Access
1.18   The establishment of the CHS system in 1975 was designed to give access to relevant vocational
secondary education to children who were not admitted into public secondary schools or who could not
afford the fees of non-government schools. The latter were subsequently absorbed into the public school
system. Thus, the CHS system was intended to increase access for economically or academically
disadvantaged primary graduates and did accomplish this to a certain extent. Ironically, the CHS/PT
system is now the main impediment to large numbers of children gaining access to relevant skills and
credentials for employment.
1.19   There are several reasons for this. First, because of low mobility to the GSS stream, children
who attend CHS and PT schools, with few exceptions, do not have the opportunity to study core
academic subjects beyond the 9th grade and thereafter are unable to obtain CXC passes in these subjects,
which in Guyana are virtually the only secondary credentials now recognized in the labor market. Nor,
in most cases, do they have the opportunity to qualify for admission to the University of Guyana.
Because instruction in CHS/PT schools either stops at or does not include significant academic emphasis
beyond the 9th grade, they are also poorly positioned to obtain any future locally-administered secondary
credential that might gain acceptance in the labor market.
1.20   Second, adequate resources are not available to the CHSs and PTs. Effective pre-vocational
secondary education, as traditionally conceived in Guyana and elsewhere, with adequately equipped
shops and lower student-teacher ratios, typically requires two-to-three times the resources that effective
general secondary education requires. Although available financial analysis has not established how
large the financial gaps among the streams are, the CHS/PT streams appear even more starved of
resources than the GSS system. Deteriorated or non-existent facilities and lack of experienced
vocational teachers allow only a rudimentary implementation of the pre-vocational curriculum.
1.21   Third, even adequately financed pre-vocational education may not prepare students effectively
for the labor market. International experience has shown that students in pre-vocational programs
typically have poorer labor market prospects, including access to training provided by employers, than
general secondary school leavers.
1.22   In theory, the SSEE assigns the less academically-inclined students to prevocational programs
more appropriate to their abilities. However, high-stakes tests like the SSEE are poor instruments for
student evaluation. Many of the primary school children who are streamed into the CHS and PT schools
undoubtedly have the ability to succeed in a general secondary curriculum or could develop it. Some are
simply poor test takers or merely had a bad test day. Some are late developers. Others are over-age and



-6 -
were not allowed to take the test. Finally, a number were displaced by less able children (in SSEE terms)
whose families could afford to pay for after-school tutoring.
1.23   While unification of the secondary system would ultimately be the most effective method of
reducing the large inequities in Guyana's secondary education system, significant changes in curriculum,
student mobility and finance would each help materially in assuring equitable access to education and
employment opportunities. Specifically, a fully implemented common curriculum in the three streams,
quality improvements in the CHS/PT schools, increased transfers from these schools to GSS schools in
all grades, provision for studying academic subjects in CHS/PT schools, and equitably distributed school
finance would remove many of the most glaring inequities.
(2)    Quality Issues
1.24   Poor student achievement in all secondary streams is a consequence of interrelated deficiencies
in school curricula, teacher and school-administrator training, textbook and instructional-material
availability, and school equipment and infrastructure. Low performance levels in secondary schools is
also a consequence of weak primary-school preparation.
1.25   Curriculum. The curriculum for all secondary streams in Guyana is supposed to be based on
the CXC syllabus for each subject area. Although National Fourth Form Achievement Test syllabi do
exist, in practice, no national curriculum guides have been distributed to teachers, and little attention has
been given to the idea of a national curriculum in recent years. Few CHS/PT students receive the fourth
and fifth year instruction in the CXC syllabi that is given in the GSSs. In the CHSs and PTs, teachers use
eclectic sources for instructional guidance. Only the five-year GSS course attempts to actually prepare
students to take the academic CXC examinations. The results cited above indicate a conspicuous lack of
success. Instruction for the first three years in the GSSs is now based on texts recently produced by
MEC with UNDP financing and, where available, outdated NCERD curriculum guides and CXC syllabi.
Teacher curriculum guides corresponding to the texts have not been widely distributed. In most cases,
overall achievement levels in the CHS/PT schools are even more inferior to those of the GSS schools
than the differing ability levels of students would suggest, particularly in the critical areas of Language
Arts and Math. Major variations among schools exist in instructional time allocated for these core
subjects. While prevocational subjects are a prominent element in the curriculum of the CHS/PT schools
(GSS schools also have compulsory prevocational studies), the results of the SSPE, taken at the end of
the third year by CHS/PT students, indicate that few students have significant vocational competencies to
compensate for serious basic education deficiencies.
1.26   Prior to the distribution of the GSS texts for grades 7-9, the overall approach of the curriculum in
all streams had been based largely on rote learning by drill and copying into exercise books, which were,
along with chalk, in short supply in many schools. Developing a common curriculum with a multi-level
approach for a student population with varying learning skills, especially in Language Arts and Math, is
a challenge now urgently facing Guyana.
1.27   The Teaching Force. Approximately 60% of the teachers in both the GSSs and CHSs are either
university graduates (16%) or have completed a course of teacher training (44%), with the graduates
concentrated in the GSS schools. No information is available about the teachers in PT schools. Massive
emigration of skilled Guyanese has hollowed out the teacher corps as well as other institutions in
Guyana. Although Guyana does not face inefficiencies in teacher utilization (teacher-student ratios of
about 1:35), high teacher turnover rates and the decline in general educational standards have markedly



-7 -
reduced the average skill level of secondary teachers compared to fifteen years ago. Data on teacher
qualifications do not distinguish the level of training and many of the graduates and trained teachers in
secondary schools have only primary training. Thus, few have the academic background necessary for
the secondary subjects they teach. As a consequence, there is very low productivity in most classrooms,
particularly in the CHS and PT schools, in terms of teaching and learning vis-a-vis the content and skills
indicated by the formal curriculum.
1.28   The recent large real salary increase for teachers (para. 1.8) has improved teacher morale
somewhat, but salaries that are still low compared to private and foreign employment, dilapidated,
unsafe, unsuitable school buildings, lack of teaching materials and other supplies, high student and
teacher absenteeism, and limited access to in-service training continue to make it very difficult for the
government to attract and retain skilled teachers. A TS17 principal, for instance, now typically earns
about US$3,200 per annum, including allowances. This is only about US$1,200 more than a recently
hired, trained, graduate teacher earns and just a few hundred dollars more than a secondary school
graduate with three CXC passes earns in the private sector. Consequently, steps need to be taken in the
future to improve teachers' working conditions in the schools and to enhance their teaching skills.
1.29   Lacking training in pedagogy and in the subjects they teach, most teachers are unable to engage
students in active learning or cover anything approaching the appropriate curriculum. Visits to
classrooms indicated a very passive approach to teaching - students sitting at desks copying exercises or
problems the teacher had written on the board and the teacher sitting at the desk observing the students or
doing other work. Very little lecturing, explaining, demonstrating or discussing subjects with the class or
circulating among students to check on student progress was taking place. Further, the time spent
learning is significantly less than the actual time period allocated for the class.
1.30    Good supervision and technical support are key elements in curriculum reform. At present,
however, teachers and schools receive inadequate support. Technical support should be provided as part
of routine supervision by the principal or department head, by education officers in the regional offices,
and by trained resource teachers. Generally this is not happening. The lack of supportive supervision
contributes to the low observed productivity in the classroom.
1.31   For all the reasons cited, major attention needs to be paid to upgrading the teaching force. Care
in recruitment needs to be made to reduce teacher turnover and, thus, to retain the results of costly in-
service training.
1.32   Textbooks and other Teaching Resources. Except for the new texts used in GSS grades 7-9,
teacher and student resources are in very short supply in all schools, particularly in the CHS/PT schools.
The scarcity of resources is also acute in prevocational subjects of the curriculum: industrial arts,
technical drawing, sheet metal, wood working, etc. The MEC/UNDP text book project produced a
complete series of textbooks for grades 7-9 in eight subject areas using course outlines based on CXC
syllabi. However, the new textbooks are not being used in CHS and PT schools. Production runs are too
small even for effective GSS use, and MEC considers them too advanced for CHS and PT students. For
the most part, instruction in the CHS/PT schools is based primarily on the use of exercise books. MEC
needs to identify appropriate textbooks for CHS and PT students either by adapting the existing
textbooks or identifying others. The lack of texts in CHS/PT schools, together with their availability in
GSS schools, is a major educational and equity concern. An emergency supply project, partly funded by
the Government of Canada in 1990 for five years in response to the acute shortage in the prior years, has
relieved the situation temporarily. However, sustainable budgetary provision of educational supplies of
all kinds needs to be provided by the Government.



- 8 -
1.33   School Facilities and Equipment. School facilities are generally dilapidated, overcrowded,
unsafe and lacking furniture, laboratory equipment, shop and other instructional equipment. A large
percentage of school buildings are constructed of wood. A 1992 MEC survey of secondary school
facilities, with about three-quarters of the schools responding, indicated that the median age of school
buildings was 37 years and that 55% of the GSS buildings and 45% of the CHS buildings were in very
poor condition and in need of immediate replacement or rehabilitation due to extensive damage to roofs,
foundations, stairs and floors. Eighty-six percent of the schools cited serious roof problems. To assess
the full seriousness of the situation, an up-to-date, complete facilities survey by independent consultants
is urgently needed.
1.34   Another facilities problem related both to original school design and to overcrowded conditions
is that most schools lack single-classroom space, where the teacher and class can engage in vocal, lively
learning activities without disrupting other classes. Large open space classroom areas with individual
classes divided by chalkboards seriously constrain active, student- centered instruction.
1.35   Finally, school security presents a critical facilities problem with important community relations
overtones. Virtually all schools in Guyana have experienced very serious security problems and have
lost many of their few movable assets and even structural elements from the school buildings. The worst
of these crises occurred in 1990, when failure to negotiate national security contracts led to the
withdrawal of virtually the entire security force. Major deficiencies in perimeter fences and other
building security devices and the lack of secure storage space need to be corrected if improved learning
supplies and equipment are to be retained. Even more important is the development of a supportive
community environment to make it difficult for thieves to operate with impunity.
(3)    Secondary School Finance
1.36   The GSS and CHS secondary streams absorbed 25% of total government expenditure on
education (Table 1.1). No estimate is available for the expenditure on primary tops, but if unit cost were
one-half of that for the other streams, the percentage for secondary education would be 29%. In
percentage terms, this is within the desirable range according to international norms, but it should not
obscure the central financial fact that Guyana's annual expenditure per secondary student remains at a
very low level - an average of US$65 per student in GSS/CHS - and even less (US$48 per student) when
expenditures on President's College and CXC subsidies are removed (Table 1.2).
1.37   Despite data limitations which preclude a detailed analysis, unit expenditures are significantly
less in CHS than in GSS, and substantially less in the PT stream even than in the CHS stream. This is
probably true even when the 25% of total combined GSS and CHS expenditures on President's College
and CXC subsidies, which primarily benefit some GSS students, are disregarded. There is also
considerable variation among schools within all streams. Informal inspection suggests that the ranges of
school unit costs in both CHS and GSS overlap considerably, with a number of CHS schools receiving
unit allocations above large numbers of GSS schools. Within the GSS stream, seven schools, such as
Queens College in Georgetown, offer small higher education courses to a total of only about 150
students. These two-year, "sixth-form" courses are designed to prepare students for the GCE A-Level
examination, which is required for entry into the University of the West Indies and UK (but not US)
universities. Undoubtedly, these sixth-form programs and the Grade 7-1 1 programs in the same schools
have much higher then average unit costs. GSS schools at the bottom of the financial ladder, conversely,
receive unit financial allocations well below the GSS average. Similarly, the least-well-financed CHS



- 9 -
and PT schools receive allocations below the average for their streams and far below the national
average. Correcting this inefficient and inequitable situation will require timely school-level financial
data, rational budget procedures (para. 1.38), and resistance to special pleading at the regional level.
1.38    As a concomitant of more equitable budgeting among schools, the allocation of educational
finance among the regions also needs to be rationalized. At present, there are substantial, hard-to-justify
variations in average expenditure per secondary school student among the regions. For instance, Regions
4 (outside of Georgetown) and 6 received only 67% as much per student as Regions 2 and 3 in 1994
(Table 1.2). Budget allocation procedures and budget negotiations should be based primarily on standard
unit costs for both equity and efficiency reasons.
Table 1.2: Secondary Expenditures Per Student, GSS and CHS Streams, 1994, By Region
Region
2        3                   4                    5        6       10      Western
Other                                Border
President's  George-    Region                              Regions     Total
College    tow n      4                                    (1,7,8,9)   Guyana
Including President's College and Prorated External Exams
G$ nil./a               27.2     61.3       59.9     143.1       45.2     27.7     62.1     28.0       16.2      470.3
UnitCostGS'000/b        10.5      8.9      196.9       7.4        6.5      7.9      6.6     11.9       13.3        8.9
Unit Cost USS           76 4     64.1    1,427 0      53.7       46.7     57.3     47.5     85.9       96.4       64.7
Relative Unit Cost /c   118%      99%     2,206%       83%        72%      89%      74%     133%       149%      100%
Not Including President's College or Prorated External Exams
GS nril.                25.2     50.9        -        123.2      37.6     21.9     48.6     26.2       15.6      349.3
Unit Cost G$'000/b       9.8      7.4                  6.4        5.4      6.3      5.1     11.1       12.8        6.7
Unit Cost USS           70.8     53.3        -        46.2       38.9     45.4     37.2     80.3       92.5       48.3
Relative Unit Cost      147%     110%        0%        96%        81%      94%      77%     166%      191%       100%
Source: World Bank estinates
Note: For General Secondary and Cornrnunity High Schools. Does not include expenditures for secondary enrolment in prirnary schools
and adrrinistrative expenditure included in the central ryinistry budget.
/a. Includes cost of external exarminations prorated by GSS 5th Form enrollrrent.
/b 1990-1991 enrollnent used, except for President's College, since later enrollrrent data unavailable.
/c Calculation rmade not including the cost for Presidents College in the total.
1.39    Budget procedures should also be flexible enough to deal with the special needs of schools
serving remote regions. Undoubtedly, the western border regions (1,7,8,9), whose schools service vast,
sparsely populated interior regions, require higher unit allocations, especially when residential facilities
are involved. There has not been any budget analysis based on differential unit costs to indicate whether
unit allocations, which were 71%  above the national average in 1994, are appropriate. Appropriate
budget formulas for schools serving remote regions would not only systematize allocations to these
regions but could also be used to assure equitable finance to schools serving remote populations in
several other regions.
(4)      Organization and Management
1.40    The organization of secondary education in Guyana is complex. The regional structure
dominates line functions in administration and educational-finance (para. 1.12), except in Georgetown,
where MEC assumes the line functions of the regional administrations. The regional education officers
(REdOs) do not usually have deputies for secondary education; instead, they have subordinate district
education officers (DEOs) and district education supervisors (DESs), who, in turn, deal with primary and
secondary schools within their districts. However, no regional or even district officers are charged with
overseeing secondary education exclusively.



- 10-
1.41   Despite the dominance of line functions by the regional administrations, MEC does have several
significant line roles in personnel selection, curriculum decisions, and investment in the regions. Once
staffing needs are determined by the regional administrations and affirmed in the budget process, for
instance, MEC through the Chief Education Officer (CEO) and the deputy chief education officer for
administration (DCEO/Admin) has de facto control of all permanent appointments, including those of the
REdOs, DEOs, school principals and non-temporary teachers.2 MEC also specifies the curricula to be
taught in all secondary schools. Lastly, MEC typically decides where and how donor-funded and other
special projects will be administered and provides funds for them through its budget.
1.42   MEC's role in staff functions in the regions is considerably larger than its role in line functions,
and it has wide responsibility for the functions listed in para. 1.12 At present, MEC administers
secondary education-through three officers, with each secondary stream having its own assistant chief
education officer (ACEO). There are ACEOs for GSS, CHS and primary (including primary tops), who
report to the DCEO/Admin. In light of Guyana's goals of unifying the secondary education system,
MEC needs to institute new management arrangements to more effectively deal with such questions as a
common curriculum, criteria for rational resource allocation, mobility among the streams, equity in the
development of teaching materials, and improvement in MEC lines of authority to secondary schools in
the regions. The line administrative structure in secondary education in the regions is also surprisingly
paralleled in the administration of Georgetown schools, which are administratively fully under MEC.
Here, an ACEO for all levels of Georgetown schools reports directly to the DCEO/Admin, and the three
ACEOs handling staff functions for secondary education have no line authority over him or her.
1.43   Equally important to the reform of secondary education at the national and regional levels will be
the decentralization of budget authority and accountability to school principals. Once school budgetary
allocations are determined on the basis of systematic, rational criteria, principals need to be made
responsible for designing and carrying out efficient educational programs that are consistent with
national policies, for producing effective student learning outcomes, and for skillfully administering
school budgets.
1.44   Public service reform is high on the Government's agenda and is being supported by the IDA
under the Public Administration Project. Enhancing the ability to retain key technical and managerial
staff is an objective of public management reform generally. In the area of education, MEC has found it
extremely difficult to retain key educational resource staff who are essential to the implementation of
educational reform in the areas of curriculum, training, assessment, and learning resources. A key issue
of educational management is therefore how to recruit and retain skilled personnel in these areas.
D.    Government Sector Objectives and Strategy
1.45   The Government has assigned priority to the development of its human resources, noting that the
continued expansion of the productive sector and the country's ability to compete in international
markets will depend on a well-educated labor force and that rehabilitation of the education sector will be
required to achieve this.
1.46   In the education sector, the Government policies aim at: (a) strengthening the institutional
capacity and increasing the efficiency of publicly financed education (b) enhancing the quality of
2 Dejure appointment power is vested in the Teacher Service Commission.



- 11 -
services delivered in the basic education cycle, which consists of primary education and the first three
years of secondary level education; (c) ensuring a more equitable distribution of educational
opportunities and resources, and (d) utilizing budgetary resources more efficiently. The Government
believes that the highest returns to educational investments can be obtained from investments in the basic
education cycle and has sought to focus resources accordingly.
1.47   The MEC has drawn up a Five-Year Education Plan, which identifies these priorities and
specifies how these objectives will be addressed. This document provides a basic framework within
which the proposed project can support education improvement and reform. The Government has
already started a process of education reform at the primary level through the IDB-supported Primary
Education Improvement Programme (PEIP). The Government also applied for Project Preparation
Facility for the proposed project in 1994.
E.    IDA's Role and Strategy
1.48   IDA involvement in the proposed project is fully consistent with the overall Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Guyana, which was discussed at the Board on December 15, 1993. The CAS
identified, among others, the following objectives: (a) to assist the Government in refocusing and
strengthening the public sector to improve delivery of public services, especially human resources
development; (b) to play a catalytic role in developing sector strategies and policies as well as in
providing framework for mobilizing resources from other donor agencies; and (c) to support the
rehabilitation of education facilities; and (d) to complement the PEIP.
1.49  In line with the above mentioned objectives, the SIMAP project (financed by C2358, US$10.30
million, Project ID: GY-PA-7254 with IDB cofinancing), a social-fund-type project designed to mitigate
the effects of macro-economic adjustment, has supported a variety of activities since 1993, including the
preparation of a medium-term strategic plan for the education sector (IDA-financed component) and the
rehabilitation of primary education facilities (IDB-financed component). The Bank Group also
supported, in April, 1994, a national workshop on human resource development. This provided a forum
for discussion of MEC's strategy plan for the sector by interested parties, including teachers, principals,
representatives of regional administrations, teachers' unions and the general public.
1.50   The project would fully incorporate the objectives identified by the CAS and complement
ongoing IDA assistance by: (i) developing measures to improve the quality and efficiency of lower
secondary education and testing them at a limited number of schools in order to gain acceptance before
expanding to the rest of the system, which is highly complex; (ii) supporting rehabilitation and repair of
schools; and (iii) enhancing the Government's ability to design, plan for, and implement sustainable
education reforms.
F.    Lessons Learned From Past Operations In the Country/Sector
1.51   The proposed project would be the third education project financed by the World Bank Group in
Guyana. The First Education Project (CO139:US$2.9 million + L0583:US$2.9 million) implemented in
the early 1970s engineered the diversification of the secondary school program as well as the
strengthening of guidance and testing services. On the other hand, the Second Education Project (C0544:
US$4.0 million + LI 106: US$8.00 million) from the mid-70s to the early-80s was only partially
successful. One of the objectives was to establish the CHS system in order to replace PTs. Although the
project established 8 model CHSs, they were not in operation by the time of loan closing when over 30%



- 12 -
(US$2.6 million) of the IBRD loan amount was canceled. The Second Education Project also suffered
from the lack of counterpart funds, weak managerial capability, difficulties in procuring architectural
services and delays in implementing civil works.
1.52   An IDB-financed PEIP has disbursed only about US$7 million of the US$44.6 million loan since
the agreement was signed in 1991. This is mainly because: (i) the PEIP's civil works component had to
be almost completely redesigned; and (ii) the project implementation unit has been virtually
independent--both physically and administratively--from MEC, and the synergy between the two has
been severely limited.
1.53   Experience from the past thus suggests that projects in Guyana are likely to experience slow
implementation and disbursement, mainly due to weak institutional capacity of public agencies and the
Government's strict procurement review procedures (para. 3.35). Also in the past, projects often required
comprehensive reformulation, suffering from overly complex design and over-dependence on
conditionalities for control. On the other hand, projects which are simple in design, with well focused
priorities, and flexible in implementation would have the best chance of success. There would also be a
need to integrate project administration closely into the existing organizational structure in order to build
institutional capacity and local ownership, thus increasing the chance of sustaining the project's impact.



- 13 -
2.    THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives
2.1    The primary objective of the project is to assist the Government to initiate a long-term, multi-
phased education reform program to improve quality, relevance, equity and efficiency to secondary
education in Guyana. More specifically, the project would aim to: (i) develop measures to improve the
quality and efficiency of lower secondary education and test them at a limited number of schools in order
to gain acceptance before extending the reform to the rest of the system; (ii) improve the school
environment by supporting rehabilitation and repair of schools; and (iii) enhance the ability of national
and regional institutions to design, plan for, and implement sustainable education reforms.
B.    Project Description
2.2    The project would have the following three components: (i) Educational Program Quality; (ii)
School Environment; and (iii) National and Regional Institutional Strengthening.
(1)    Educational Program Quality Component (US$2.5 million, 15% of baseline cost)
2.3    A key goal of educational reform in Guyana is to provide all children with an effective and
relevant basic education, irrespective of the school stream they are attending. However, to achieve this
goal, Guyana needs to identify cost-effective improvements which can be implemented on a nation-wide
basis. The objectives of this component are to: (i) introduce decentralized, cost-effective, sustainable,
integrated, school-based quality improvements; and (ii) develop, test and implement new and more
relevant multi-level common curricula in four core subjects for the lower secondary level (Grades 7-9).
For these purposes, twelve pilot schools have been selected by the Government from all streams and
several geographic regions. At each school, a School Improvement Plan (SIP), incorporating school-
based management concepts, would be prepared and implemented in accordance with guidelines and
budget advice provided by MEC and the regional administrations (Annex V). The new curricula would
be tested in pilot schools, revised accordingly and new curriculum guides would eventually be
distributed to all secondary schools in Guyana.
2.4    Pilot schools would receive project inputs in the form of: (i) newly developed multi-level
curricula in four core subjects for Grades 7-9; (ii) increased availability of textbooks and other
instructional materials and equipment; (iii) in-service training of teachers for delivering the curriculum
effectively and efficiently; (iv) training and support of principals in effective school management,
including educational leadership and community mobilization. In addition, in light of the severely
dilapidated condition of many of the pilot schools, rehabilitation of school facilities and acquisition of
furniture are supported under the School Environment component (para. 2.23) in order to adequately
support the implementation of the improved educational program.
2.5    Support of School Management. Each pilot school principal would prepare a school
improvement plan (SIP) and revise it annually on a rolling three-year basis. It would contain, inter alia:
(i) a description of the school's student population and teaching staff, including quantitative and
qualitative information; (ii) objectives for student learning outcomes and the rationale for them, (iii)
priority areas to be improved in educational quality and infrastructure with quantitative and qualitative
targets; (iv) strategies to take advantage of project inputs in improving identified areas; (v)
implementation strategies and sequencing, (vi) strategies to effectively involve and obtain support from



- 14-
teachers, students, parents and the community, (vii) negotiated arrangements for greatly increased
opportunities for students to move the pilot school and accessible schools offering upper-secondary
education (if this is not available in the pilot school), and (viii) a detailed budget for the use of
discretionary funds following broad MEC guidelines. In formulating their SIPs, pilot schools would be
required to seek input from students, parents, community leaders, and employers. School and
community participation would be formalized for each school in a small-membership School
Improvement Advisory Committee (SIAC), which would participate in preparing the SIP and would
approve it before submitting it for further approval by the REdO and the ACEO/Secondary.
2.6    The SIP would be prepared in accordance with MEC's SIP Guidelines, which would be drawn up
and kept current by the ACEO for Secondary Education after widespread consultation at national
regional, school and community levels. In assuming this responsibility, the ACEO/Secondary would
receive policy guidance from the Reform Management Team (RMT; para. 3.20) comprising senior
government officials, technical assistance from the Project Secretariat in the form of a school-based
management specialist (para. 2.7) and budgetary guidance from the DPS/MEC, the regional
administrations and the Ministry of Finance. The SIP Guidelines would describe, inter alia: (i) what to
be included in a SIP (objectives, strategies, time-based implementation plans, management
arrangements, base-line and progress indicators, etc.); (ii) how to establish a SIAC and formulate a SIP;
(iii) the SIP cycle (formulation, approval, implementation); (iv) roles and responsibilities of the
MEC/Project Secretariat and the Regional Administrations in providing assistance to schools, and how a
school can obtain such assistance; (v) reporting requirements and supervision arrangements. The MEC
has submitted the first draft SIP Guidelines for IDA's review in late November, 1995. At negotiations,
the Government provided a revised draft for IDA's review, and agreed on further revisions to be
made before the guidelines are finalized (para. 3.40 (h)). Furnishing of the SIP Guidelines
acceptable to IDA is a condition of effectiveness (para. 3.41 (c)).
2.7   In order to assist the pilot schools in developing and implementing their SIPs, the project would
provide school management and participatory management specialists to: (i) brief the pilot school
principals in participatory-planning techniques, (ii) assist them in assembling their SIACs and preparing
planning workshops at each school and (iii) help them prepare their SIPs. The school management
specialist would also assist the MEC in updating the SIP Guidelines. Besides providing the specialists,
the Project Director and his/her staff would give the schools continuous hands-on technical assistance in
developing their SIPs and would approve their SIPs for use of project funds prior to submission to higher
levels.
2.8   In order to assist school-level initiatives, the project's counterpart funds would set aside a small
discretionary fund for each school to be operated and accounted by the school principal. The annual
allocation to each school for this fund would be equivalent, at the outset of the project, to no less than
US$3 per student. The fund could be used to purchase goods and services (i.e., library books, un-
budgeted maintenance, equipment replacement) in accordance with the SIP Guidelines. The pilot
schools would specify in their SIPs what these funds and any other school-controlled funds would be
used for and how they would improve learning outcomes. At negotiations, the Government agreed
that it will provide annual budget support, equivalent to at least US$3.00 per student on the
average, to pilot school discretionary funds for uses specified in their approved SIPs as part of the
Government's counterpart funds for the project. (para. 3.40 (a)).
2.9    Training of Principals, Deputy Principals and Department Heads. The effectiveness of
school managers in designing and justifying financial support for school improvement programs would
be one of the key elements in the success of these programs. One important criterion for the selection of



- 15 -
pilot schools has been the quality of leadership of the principal. Further training in school management,
including financial and information management, educational leadership, communications skills, and
community relations would also be an essential element in the success of the school improvement
programs. The project would support training seminars specifically directed at school administrators.
School administrators would join regional and MEC administrators in more general management training
(para. 2.27), and participate in teacher training as appropriate (para. 2.18). In addition, school
administrators would receive direct training in the process of developing their school SIPs and carrying
out the project. They would receive direct guidance from the Project Director and his staff, from the
specialists in school-based management and participatory management (para. 2.5), educational finance
(para. 2.26), and from the curriculum (para. 2.14) and supervision teams (para. 2.20).
2.10   Introduction of a Common Curriculum. To improve efficiency and equitable access to quality
basic education, the project would support the development of a common curriculum for Grades 7-9 and
its implementation in the pilot schools. The common curriculum would use multi-level and cross-
curricular approaches that presuppose that students of varying skill levels can pursue a common core of
knowledge in most subject areas (Annex VI). The new curricula would be developed in conjunction with
the identification of suitable, off-the-shelf supporting texts and other curricular materials, where
possible. The project would provide technical assistance to the MEC's National Centre for Educational
Resources Development (NCERD). As the existing NCERD is severely understaffed, the project would
assist the NCERD in staffing up for the proposed project work program. Also to assist NCERD in
recruiting and retaining qualified education specialists, the project would provide supplemental
allowance from the counterpart funds for selected posts, as listed in Annex VIII.
2.11   Formulation of a common curriculum in four core subjects would be carried out in the following
sequence: (i) language arts and mathematics; and (ii) science and social studies. Development and
implementation of the curriculum guides would be on a two-year cycle, whereby the first year would be
devoted to writing the guide, followed in the second year by test piloting in the project schools. Input
from students, parents, teachers and employers would be sought at various stages. Although only the
pilot schools would receive intensive, continuous curriculum support under the project, the curriculum
guides would be finalized following test-piloting and distributed to all secondary schools in Guyana. By
the end of Year 5 of the project, all four core subjects would have been written, piloted and distributed.
2.12   The project would not directly finance a new pre-vocational curriculum. Technological subject
matter would be included in the science curriculum. In addition, the project would support the
exploration of alternatives such as the resource and technology curricula being used elsewhere in the
Caribbean through workshops and study tours. The project would be prepared to finance the cost of
implementing such curricula at a select number of pilot schools on an experimental basis.
2.13   The structure and content of the common curriculum would be related to the curriculum and
achievement objectives developed through the UNICEF-funded Minimum Levels of Attainment project.
For each subject, the curriculum review would: (i) examine the scope, sequence and articulation of
content and skills from primary level through secondary school; (ii) review appropriate off-the shelf texts
and other curricular materials that might form a cost-effective basis for further curriculum development
and specification of instructional methodologies; (iii) select instructional methodologies and alternative
textbooks and instructional materials for all grades and levels, and (iv) identify appropriate mechanisms
of continuous assessment of student learning for each grade.
2.14   The Curriculum Development and Implementation Unit (CDIU) of the NCERD is responsible
for developing and implementing curriculum at the primary and secondary levels of the educational



- 16-
system as well as the preparation of national examinations. For each of the four core subjects,
Curriculum, Instructional Materials and Assessment Teams (CIMAT) would be established to produce
the new curriculum guides and develop the basic library list (para. 2.16). Each CIMAT would comprise
of (i) a senior subject specialist, and a subject specialist from NCERD; and (ii) seven practicing teachers
(including one reading specialist) who would work part-time and be paid an honoraria. NCERD's
Learning Resources Unit would provide periodic assistance to CIMATs. It is expected that CIMATs
would confer the teams in the other core subjects in order to achieve cross-curricular consistency. In
addition, the project would fund consultants who would visit Guyana approximately every two to three
months to assist in curriculum implementation and field supervision. Reflecting the sequencing strategy
of curriculum development (para. 2.11), a CIMAT would be established first for each of Language Arts
and Mathematics, and then for Science and Social Studies. At negotiations, the Government agreed to
establish CIMATs for Language Arts and Math no later than December 1, 1996, and for Science
and Social Studies, no later than September 1, 1998 (para.3.40 (b)). The project would fund each of
the CIMATs for two years, initially. If needed, funding for the teams would be extended for an
additional two-year period, beyond which MEC would either take over their funding or terminate them.
In order to strengthen the MEC's curriculum development capability, the project would finance
professional development activities such as study tours, conferences, etc.
2.15   The project would also provide technical assistance to the NCERD's Test Development Unit in
the form of a short-term specialist in educational assessment to (i) assist the unit to design and
implement continuous assessment in the classroom and (ii) examine the structure of testing affecting
secondary students from the SSEE onward.
2.16   Provision of Textbooks and Other Instructional Materials. The project would provide the
pilot schools with a basic library of textbooks and teaching and learning materials, as specified for each
subject by the CIMAT (para. 2.14), to equip all students in the pilot schools with adequate curricular
resources. Books and materials would be procured by the Project Secretariat, and distributed to schools
by the Book Distribution Unit of NCERD through the applicable regional education department, until a
textbook policy is developed and adopted (para. 2.17). The ProcurementlFinance Coordinator of the
Project Secretariat would assume management responsibility for the procurement and distribution of
books and learning materials. While the texts and learning materials would be provided to students at no
charge, the schools would enforce an effective policy on student financial responsibility for lost or
damaged books. The project would fund a textbook specialist to help develop the basic library list and
other textbook-related functions. Additional assistance would be sought from other Bank-financed
projects in the Caribbean. CIMATs, with the assistance of the textbook specialist, would consult
extensively with pilot school principals and teachers in developing the basic library list. In most cases,
more than one text in a subject area would be selected, allowing schools to choose among alternative
texts to promote different program emphases. The review would begin with textbooks produced and
distributed under a recently completed UNDP-funded Textbook Program. Textbooks produced and/or
widely used in the region would also be considered.
2.17   The project would also support NCERD's Learning Resources Unit in defining an appropriate
overall textbook policy framework for Guyana, specifying how texts are to be selected, purchased,
distributed, replaced, re-selected and funded. The textbook specialist, funded by the project, would help
NCERD define and implement the overall textbook policy. At negotiations, the Government agreed to
adopt and implement such a textbook policy no later than September 1, 1996 (para 3.40 (c)).
2.18   In-Service Teacher Training. In spite of the presence of some dedicated and skilled teachers,
the prevailing capacity of Guyana's teachers in both subject content and pedagogy is limited. Extensive



- 17-
in-service training from the outset would therefore be an essential element in pilot school improvement.
Pedagogical emphasis would be placed on multi-level and team-teaching methods. The Project Director,
in collaboration with the ACEO/Secondary, would have overall responsibility for in-service training
activities in the pilot schools. In-service teacher training services provided by the project would be
carried out by the University of Guyana (UG) or a training institution acceptable to the IDA under a
contract with the project and would be coordinated with relevant secondary training activities conducted
by other institutions. The project would finance two consultants to assist the training institute in: (i) the
development and implementation of in-service training programs and (ii) the training of field supervisors
in effective classroom observation, monitoring and evaluation. In the course of developing and
implementing the teacher training programs, the UG itself would be strengthened by the extensive
technical assistance provided by said consultants. Consequently, the UG would be able to provide
critical long-term sustainability in teacher training after project completion.
2.19   For each pilot school, the project would finance: (i) preparation of detailed teacher-training
needs assessments based on the SIP; and (ii) the design and implementation of an in-service training
program to address the identified training needs. The in-service training program would focus training
resources on teachers who can be expected to remain with the secondary school system. Training would
include subject content, use of instructional resources, classroom management, pedagogy, and use of the
new curriculum guides as they become available. In-service training would comprise a summer
residential program, workshops in the regions throughout the year held either at a central pilot school or
a resource center and on-going classroom supervision (Annex VI).
2.20   Supervision. Good supervision and technical support of teachers is key to developing and
maintaining quality teaching and learning. Throughout the period during which pilot schools receive
continuous support, overall supervision of these schools would be carried out by the Project Secretariat.
Under the management of the Project Director, the project would fund three full-time supervision teams
(Annex VI). The project would finance technical assistance to train the supervision teams in: (i)
effective classroom observation; and (ii) providing technical support to teachers and administrators on
best pedagogical practices, classroom motivation and discipline techniques, use of new curriculum, use
of instructional materials, student assessment methodologies, development of student feedback system,
record keeping and collaborative teaching methods. The supervision team leader would provide
supervision reports on school visits to the Project Director with copies to ACEO/Secondary and the
REdO.
2.21   Performance Monitoring. The ultimate success of the reform program (i.e., improved
achievement scores, student matriculation rates into upper secondary grades, acquisition of meaningful
work, etc.) can only be detected towards the end of the project, and needs to be assessed at the school
level. In order to build a basis for impact evaluation, the pilot schools would be required to continuously
monitor and update: (i) school indicators, such as student and teacher attendance, the use of textbooks
and other learning materials, progress in teacher training and supportive supervision, and other efficiency
indicators; and (ii) indicators of student learning outcomes measured through continuous assessment.
Initially, these indicators would be supplied as part of the baseline information to be included in the SIP.
Initial and updated indicators would be verified by the pilot school supervision teams (para. 2.20). The
Project Secretariat would assume overall responsibility to ensure that these indicators are aggregated for
all pilot schools by the school information system (para. 2.29). A partial and a comprehensive analyses
on changes in student performance and achievements would be carried out prior to the Mid-Term Review
(para. 3.31) and upon the completion of implementation, respectively with assistance from a project-
financed evaluation specialist (para. 3.29).



- 18-
(2)    School Environment Component (US$11.2 million, 68% of baseline cost)
2.22   Learning at most schools (both primary and secondary) has been seriously hindered by: (i)
severe decay of buildings and facilities, which frequently poses physical dangers and sanitation problems
(para. 1.33); and (ii) overcrowding. Comprehensive rehabilitation (including reconstruction and
extension) of about 40 primary schools (roughly 10% of all primary schools in the country) is expected
to start under the IDB-financed PEIP this year. At the secondary level, limited repair work has been
done or is planned at about 10 schools (roughly 10% of GSSs and CHSs; including 5 of the 12 pilot
schools) under such programs as CPFP (EU financed) and SIMAP (IDB/IDA financed). Basic furniture
such as student desks and chairs, bookcases, blackboards, and desks for teachers and support staff are
generally inadequate and in poor repair. Equipment necessary to teach scientific and technological
topics is almost entirely absent from schools. The inadequate security structures of most schools have
also meant that much instructional material and equipment has been subject to theft.
a)     Pilot Schools Subcomponent (US$5.2 million, 32% of baseline cost)
2.23   In order to adequately support improvement of education at the pilot schools, the project would
support: (i) building rehabilitation and renovation; (ii) extension; (iii) construction of multi-purpose
laboratories; and (iv) acquisition of furniture. Because pilot schools would receive project inputs in the
forms of textbooks and other instructional materials (para. 2.16) as well as furniture and equipment,
security structures would be provided as part of the rehabilitation and renovation.
b)     Emergency School Repair Subcomponent (US$6.0 million, 37% of baseline cost)
2.24   The project would reserve funds for emergency repair works at non-pilot secondary schools
based on the needs for: (a) structural repairs (structural frame, foundations and walls); (b) roof repairs
(including weather proofing, insulation, sound separation); (c) life-safety exiting provisions (including
stairs); and (d) essential repairs of utility systems, including electrical system, potable water distribution
system, sewerage system and toilet blocks. Schools with the most serious life-safety violations would
rate highest for inclusion among the list of schools to be repaired under this component. Such needs
would be assessed through the Nationwide Physical Facilities Survey (2.28), which would include the
development of criteria, agreeable to IDA, to select secondary schools to be supported. Such criteria
should include: (i) repair needs identified through the Survey; (ii) student enrollment; (iii) history of
repair work in recent years; (iv) regional equity; and (v) urban-rural equity. The 12 pilot schools would
be ineligible under this subcomponent.
(3)    National and Regional Institutional Strengthening Component (US$2.1 million, 13% of
baseline cost)
2.25   The project would support a number of interventions designed to improve education sector
performance through strengthening of budget planning, organization and management, the school
information system, nationwide physical facility survey, social awareness campaigns, and preparation for
a follow-up project.
2.26   Budget Planning. During the appraisal, GOG confirmed that MEC is now responsible for the
review and clearance of regional education budget submissions prior to the MOF approval, and this was
reconfirmed at negotiations (para. 3.40 (d)). However, MEC lacks rational allocation criteria as well as



- 19-
staff to facilitate the allocation of scarce resources in the education sector. The project would support the
development and implementation of new budgeting guidelines, which would treat individual schools as a
basic planning unit and establish rational and clear resource allocation criteria (i.e., formula based on
number of students, availability of instructional materials, remoteness of location, etc.). The project
would fund an education finance specialist to assist with the preparation of the guidelines. The specialist
would train and work closely with the staff of the DPS/Finance, liaise closely with all the main actors in
school finance including MOF, RExOs, REdOs and in MEC, the DCEO/Admin., and help the principals
of pilot schools develop school-based budget systems to complement strengthened school management.
The purchase or development of a user-friendly computer application, which would facilitate budgeting
exercises would be supported as part of the school information system (para. 2.29).
2.27   Organization and Management. The project would support the development and
implementation of strategies to improve overall effectiveness of education administration. Such
strategies would be built on pertinent work carried out in the past and at present, including: (i) the draft
Desk Manual for Education Managers developed by MEC with technical assistance from UNICEF; and
(ii) relevant activities undertaken by the ongoing IDA-financed Public Administration Project. More
specifically, the project would finance consultants for: (a) increasing scope and depth of analyses carried
out by said work; (b) developing a long-term strategy and a detailed short-medium-term plan to improve
management effectiveness; and (c) training of MEC and regional education department staff in general
management skills (e.g., communication skills, priority management, information/file management, use
of office technology, and effective leadership) and educational administration subjects (such as budget
practice and school-based management systems). These activities would be closely coordinated with
Budget Planning Strengthening (para. 2.26) and the upgrading of the School Information System (para.
2.29). Office equipment including PC workstations, photocopying machines, fax machines and
additional telephone lines would also be provided by the project.
2.28   Nationwide Physical Facilities Survey. Dilapidation of school buildings and facilities as well
as overcrowding (paras. 1.33, 2.22) would continue to be serious problems. In order to assist the
Government in identifying capital investment priorities and carrying out resource planning, the project
would support a detailed nation-wide survey of secondary school infrastructure to be completed during
the first year of project implementation. The survey would select, based on criteria and methods
agreeable to IDA, representative samples of schools offering secondary education to be examined. Such
criteria and methods to select samples will be made as a part of the Project's Operational Manual
(para. 3.41 (a)). Physical examinations of the sample schools would be preceded by the development of
school design guidelines, including prototype design standards. The guidelines and standards would be
used by physical examination teams as an objective point of reference. Information generated through
the survey would become part of the School Information System (para. 2.29). It would also be used to
develop objective criteria to determine the eligibility and priorities of secondary schools to be supported
under the School Environment subcomponent of the project (para. 2.24). As a condition of
disbursement against the Emergency School Repair subcategory, the Government will complete
the Nationwide Physical Facility Survey in the following sequence: (a) development of school
design guidelines and standards satisfactory to IDA; (b) completion of the physical examinations of
the selected samples and publication of survey reports; and (c) development and adoption of
criteria, satisfactory to IDA, to be used to select schools for emergency repair (para. 3.43).
2.29   School Information System. Lack of information on individual schools has been a major
obstacle in sector management. In order to improve quality and availability of information on schools, a
school mapping exercise (SME) was initiated in 1993 with the assistance of SIMAP. The SME has



- 20 -
completed initial data collection in all regions except Regions 1, 8 and 9. For data processing, the IDB-
supported PEIP has provided MEC with several personal computers.
2.30   The project would support the continuation of SME, and data collection in the remaining regions.
Furthermore, the project would finance the establishment of the School Information System (SIS), which
would be a permanent mechanism to compile, process and store information on: (a) individual students,
(b) student learning outcomes assessed on a sample or census basis; (c) teachers and staff; (d) teaching
methods and curricula, (e) textbooks, other instructional materials, equipment, and furniture; (f) school
sites and buildings; and (g) communities and school catchment areas. At present there are three major
data collection points in MEC (in the Education Planning Unit [EPU], the Finance Division, and the
Personnel Division). The upgraded SIS would be located in the EPU and headed by a School
Information Officer, who would be hired under the project and financed by the proposed IDA credit on a
declining basis (para. 3.15). S/he would report to the Chief Planning Officer. At negotiations, the
Government agreed to hire the Schools Information Officer under terms of reference acceptable to
IDA no later than September 1, 1996 (para. 3.40 (e)). REdO Offices would assume the function of
regional focal points for the SIS. The project would also finance a short-term management information
systems specialist who would: (i) analyze in detail the flow of information to and from schools, regional
administrations, and national agencies; (ii) develop a medium-long term computerization strategy; (iii) in
conjunction with said strategy, develop detailed design specifications of SIS enhancement, including data
structure and flow, hardware and software, application programs, prototype screen & report formats,
communications and networking structure, and training. Based on the specifications developed, a firm
would be contracted to implement the SIS package, which would include computer hardware & software,
additional application programs (if any to be developed), operational manuals, communication devices
and security devices. Computerization would be carried out by the project in MEC and all REdO offices
as well as the 12 pilot schools in order to test school level feasibility. SIS design and implementation
would be closely coordinated with relevant activities under Budget Planning (para. 2.26), Organization
and Management Strengthening (para. 2.27) and Nationwide Physical Facility Survey (para. 2.28).
2.31   Social Awareness Campaign. Given the wide-spread impact of the reform program on
students, parents, educators, employers and the general public, a social awareness campaign (SAC)
would be financed under the project to: (i) properly assess and reflect the views and concerns of stake-
holders in the reform process; and (ii) inform the public about reform objectives, benefits,
implementation strategies and progress made. The SAC would be carried out by a consulting firm
specialized in social marketing on contract to the Project Secretariat. The SAC would employ press
releases, discussions on TV and radio, newsletters, other media, community workshops, national
conferences, retreats for decision makers, etc., and closely collaborate with the school-based-
management specialist (para. 2.7) in order to assure stake-holder participation. Furthermore, as part of
its assignment, the firm would advise the Project Director on the views of various segments of the public
and how these views should affect the reform process.
2.32   Preparation of Phase II Project. As the initial phase of a long-term secondary education
reform, the present proposed project would support the preparation of a second-phase project. A Phase II
project would: (i) provide direct assistance to a larger number of schools in implementing the curricula
of 4 core subjects and supporting school-based management; (ii) develop and support the implementation
of curricula for subjects not covered by the proposed project (Phase I project), including Resource and
Technology; and (iii) introduce reform measures at the upper-secondary level (grades 10 and I 1).
Preparation of the Phase II project would be carried out by the Project Secretariat and MEC staff under
the guidance of the RMT with project financed technical assistance. The preparation could commence as
soon as the Phase I project has maintained performance highly satisfactory to IDA for over 12 months.



- 21 -
Semi-annual IDA supervision missions (Annex VII, Table 3) would assess project performance based on
the agreed performance indicators (para. 3.29) and discuss with GOG the timing to start the preparation.






- 23 -
3.      IMPLEMENTATION
A.      Project Cost and Financing
3.1    Project costs. The total cost of the project, including physical and price contingencies, is
estimated at US$19.3 million or G$2,755 million. Baseline costs and contingencies are calculated at
US$16.3 million and US$3.0 million equivalent, respectively. The foreign exchange component is
expected to be 49% of total project costs. The breakdown of costs by project component is shown in
Table 3.1. A detailed breakdown of project expenditures by component is provided in Annex X, Table 1.
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary by Component
Components Project Cost Summary                              (USS Million)          Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange   Costs
A. iducation Program Quality                           0.6       1.S       2.5        74         15
B. School Environment
Pilot Schools                                      2.9        2.2       5.2        43         32
Emergency School Repair                            3.4        2.6       6.0        43         37
Subtotal School Environment                            6.3       4.8       11.2       43         68
C. National and Regional Institutional Strengthening
Institutional Strengthening                        0.2        1.1       1.3        85          8
Project Management                                 0.5        0.2       0.8        32          5
Subtotal National and Regional Institutional Strengthe  0.7      1.4       2.1        65         13
D. PPF Refinancing                                    -          0.6       0.6       100          3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                     7.7        8.6      16.3        53        100
1Fysical Contingencies                             0.3        0.3       0.5        49          4
Price Contingencies                                1.8        0.6       2.4        24         14
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      9.8        9.5      19.3        49        118
3.2     Basis of Cost Estimates. Project costs are estimated at 1995 prices. Estimated school
rehabilitation costs for the project are based on unit prices derived from cost analyses for the
rehabilitation of similar facilities from a sample of current contracts. Costs of equipment, furniture, and
materials are based on the prices of similar items procured in Guyana by the MEC. Cost of training,
local and international consultants, and other services reflect local or international rates, as applicable.
Cost estimates for textbooks are based on current costs and costing standards used by the MEC.
3.3    Contingency Allowances. Physical contingencies (averaging 4% baseline costs) are estimated
at 10% for pilot school related civil works and goods. No physical contingencies are assumed for
services, emergency school repair component, and administrative expenditures. Price contingencies
(averaging 14% of baseline costs) are estimated on the basis of expected annual international and local
price increases of 2.6% and 9.0%, respectively, throughout the life of the project. Total contingencies
represent 18% of baseline costs.
3.4    Foreign Exchange Component. Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs are estimated at
about G$1,353 million (US$9.5 million equivalent), including contingencies. Based on an analysis of
expenditures of similar projects in Guyana, the foreign exchange component for the major categories was
estimated as follows: civil works and furniture 50%; office technology equipment and vehicles, 100%;
other goods 95%; internationally-recruited consultants 100%.
3.5     Financing Plan. An IDA credit of US$17.3 million equivalent would finance 90% of total
project costs, excluding taxes (Table 3.2). The relatively high share of IDA support is deemed necessary
due to the substantial deterioration of Guyana's capacity to mobilize domestic resources, given high debt



- 24 -
servicing requirements. Because all contracts through MEC are tax and duty exempt, the project cost
estimates exclude local taxes. At negotiations, the Government gave assurance that it would provide
annual project counterpart funds (para. 3.40 (f)).
Table 3.2: Project Financing by Component
(USS Million)
Components by Financiers                                                     International
Government of Development                               Local
Guyana       Association         Total       For.  (Excl.
Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %    Exch. Taxes)
A. Education Program  Quality                                0.4   13.8      2.6   86.2      3.0   15 .6   2.1      0.9
B. School Environment
Pilot Schools                                           0.8   105      6.4   89.5      7.2   37.4   2.7       4.5
Emergency School Repair                                 0.7   11.5      5.3   88.5      6.0   31.2   2.6       3.4
Subtotal School Environment                                  1.4   10.9    11.8  689.1    132   686    53          7.9
C. National and Regional Institutional Strengthening
Institutional Strengthening                             0.1    4.5      1.4   95.5      1.5    7 7    1.3      0.2
Project Management                                      0.0    0.0      1.0  100.0      1 0    5.3   0.3       0.7
Subtotal National and Regional Institutional Strengthe       0.1    2.7      2.4   97.3      2,5   13.0    1 5      1.0
D. PPF Refinancing                                           -      0.0      0.6  100.0      0.6    2.9   0 6      -
Total Disbursement                                               1.9   10.0    17.3   90.0    19.3  100.0   9.5        98
3.6      Incremental Recurrent Costs. Because the project aims for qualitative improvements rather
than the expansion of coverage, incremental recurrent costs (IRC) generated by the project are expected
to be small (Table 3.3). IRC would be generated mainly by increases in building maintenance,
maintenance and operation of equipment, SIP support funds, replacement of books and instructional
materials, miscellaneous supplies, and MEC staff. These costs are projected to grow from US$0.05
million in 1997 to US$0.17 million in 2003 (final project year). In IDA's judgment, the government
would be in a position to absorb these costs, estimated at 0.7% of its education budget after the project is
completed, assuming the govemment increases its education expenditures by some 5% annually during
the duration of the project3.
Table 3.3: Project Generated Incremental Recurrent Cost (IRC)
Incremental Recurrent Cost                                          Totals IncludIng Contingencies (USS Million)
IDA Fiscal Year  1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003         Total
1. Pilot Schools
SIP Support Funds                                       0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02       0.15
Building and Furniture Maintenance                       -       -      -      0.03    0.04    0.05    0.04        0.16
Replacement of Books and Instructional Materials        0.00    0.00    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01       0.06
Subtotal Pilot Schools                                    0.02    0.03    0.03    U.06    0.06    0. 0  0.07         0.36
2. Aftercare of Em ergency School Repair                  -       -       -      0.03    0.05    0.06    0.05        0.19
3. Administrative and Miscellaneous Expenditures
Maintenance and Operation                               0.00    0.01    0.02    0.02    0.03    0.03    0.02       0.13
MEC Supplemental Staff /e                               0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02       0.16
Subtotal Adm InIstrative and M lscellaneous Expenditures   0.03    0.03   0U04    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.04       0.30
Subtotal lncrem ental Recurrent Cost                       O.O5    0.06    0.07    0.14    0.15    019     1 0.17     U.6s
As % of Annual Recurrent Expenditures in Educaiton      0.3%    0.3%    0.3%    0.6%    0.8%    0.8%    0.7%       0.7%
Am ount to be Flinanced by IDA                          D.02    0.03    0.03    0.04    0.04    0.04    0.04       0.25
Average IDA Financing % of Incremental Rec. Cost       45.5%   48.2%  50.2%   29.0%   24.3%   22.7%   22.7%       29.4%
3.7      Direct Input to Pilot Schools. Total baseline investment in the 12 pilot schools are estimated to
be US$6.3 million (38% of total project baseline costs) supporting rehabilitation, furniture, textbooks,
other learning materials and equipment, teacher and administrator training, and SIS related equipment.
3 In 1994, GOG increased its recurrent education budget by 23% and by 33% in 1995. Since real annual GDP
growth has been over 8% during the past three years, the projected annual increase in the recurrent education
budget is rather conservatively estimated at 5%.



- 25 -
Assuming that the investment is amortized in 15 years, some 25,000 students would spend approximately
4 years at the 12 pilot schools. In this scenario, the average investment cost would be US$251 per
student for a 4-year education, or US$63 for each year spent by a student at a pilot school. Average
annual incremental recurrent costs per student are estimated to be less than US$12 for supporting
building maintenance, maintenance and operation of SIS and learning equipment, SIP, replenishment of
damaged or lost furniture, textbooks and other instructional materials, and miscellaneous supplies.
B.      Procurement
3.8     Procurement Assistance. The Project Secretariat in MEC would be responsible for the
procurement of project-funded inputs for both the MEC and the pilot schools as set-forth in the
procurement summary in Table 3.4. As a condition of effectiveness, a Procurement/Finance
coordinator with qualifications satisfactory to IDA would be hired within the Project Secretariat
to facilitate procurement (para. 3.41 (d)). The project would also finance the hiring of civil works
supervision firms and procurement agents (Annex IX).
Table 3.4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Arrangements                                       USS million
l.C.B la    N.C.B.\b         Other           Total
A. civil Works                                   1.0          5.9             3.U Wc          9.9
(1.0)       (5.6)           (2.9)           (9.4)
B. Goods                                         -            0.2 \d          1.7 \e          1.9
-           (0.2)          (1.7)            (1.9)
C. Consultants' Services                         -            -               6.9             6.9
(5.5)          (5.5)
D. Training and Operating Expenditures           -            -               0.6             0.6
(0.6)          (0.6)
Total                                            1.0         6.1             12.2            19.3
(1.0)       (5.8)          (10.6)          (17.3)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respecti%e amounts financed by Intemational Deweiopment Association
\a Intemational Competithke Bidding
\b National Competitihe Bidding
\c Three quotations up to an aggregate contract value of US$3.0 million
\d School and office fumiture
le LIB for the School Information Systems, Computer Equipment, Books (textbooks and reading books)
as well as other instructional materials and equipment. Intemational Shopping up to an aggregate amount of
US$150,000, and National Shopping up to an aggregate amount of US$50,000.
3.9     Civil Works contracts for the rehabilitation of schools are expected to cost US$100,000 or more
and less than US$1.0 million will be awarded in accordance with National Competitive Bidding
Procedures (NCB), which must not discriminate against overseas bidders and are acceptable to IDA, up
to an aggregate contract value of US$5.9 million. GOG is already using standard bidding documents for
works under on-going projects financed by the IDA and IDB. These would be employed under the
proposed project and adapted as necessary. Contracts estimated to cost US$1.0 million or more would
be awarded in accordance with International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Only one pilot
school is expected to fall under the ICB category. Smaller works, which cannot be grouped into
packages of US$ 100,000 or more, would be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on
the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified contractors in response to a written invitation up to
an aggregate contract value of US$3.0 million.



- 26 -
3.10   Goods to be procured under the project would include office technology equipment, the school
information system, fumiture, books (textbooks and library books), other instructional materials and
equipment, and vehicles. The School Information Systems (para. 2.30) and any other office technology
equipment would be procured using Limited International Bidding (LIB) among manufacturers with
established service facilities in Guyana or neighboring countries. Books (textbooks and reading books)
as well as instructional materials and equipment would also be procured using LIB procedures. Furniture
would be procured in accordance with NCB procedures, and grouped whenever possible in packages of
US$50,000 or more but less than US$ 100,000. For smaller purchases, International Shopping
procedures may be used up to an aggregate amount of US$150,000 for contracts valued at less than
US$50,000, and National Shopping procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$50,000 for contracts
valued at less than US$10,000.
3.11   Consultants' Services will be contracted in accordance with the provisions of the Guideline for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency, dated
August 1981. The Guideline also apply to the hiring of MEC supplemental staff, including the School
Information Officer (para. 2.30). Consultant services to be procured under the project are listed in
Annex VIII.
3.12   Prior Review. Prior IDA review would be required before bids are invited, and before final
decisions on contract awards are made for the following procurement actions: (a) all ICB and LIB
procurement; (b) all civil works contracts estimated to cost US$500,000 or more; (c) the first NCB
procurement in each of civil works and goods every year; (d) all consultants' services estimated to cost
US$50,000 or more if provided by a firm, and US$10,000 or more if provided by an individual; (e) all
consultants' services contracted using the direct contracting (single-source) procedure; (f) any
amendment of contracts resulting in the increase of the contract value beyond the review limits set in (a)
through (d) above; and (g) assignment of a critical nature as reasonably determined by IDA. The review
described here would provide for prior review by IDA of approximately 60% of the total value of IDA-
financed contracts. Random ex-post review of all other contracts will be carried out by IDA supervision
missions. Table 3.6 summarizes applicable procurement procedures and review requirements.
C.    Disbursement
3.13   Disbursement Profile. The proceeds of the credit are projected to be disbursed over a seven-
and a-half-year period, based on the standard disbursement profile for education projects in the region.
Accordingly, the project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003, and the Closing Date would be
December 31, 2003. The Govemment has expressed its intention, however, to implement the project
over a five year period. A forecast of disbursements is shown in Table 3.5.
Table 3.5: Disbursement Forecast
US$ million equivalent
IDA Fiscal Year    FY97   FY98   FY99   FY00   FY01   FY02   FY03
Annual Disbursement    1.6    3.9    4.0    3.7    2.2    1.1    0.8
Accumulated Disbursement    1.6    5.5    9.5   13.2   15.4   16.5   17.3
3.14   Required Documentation. Disbursement against the following expenditures would require the
submission of complete documentation: (a) all expenditures requiring ICB and LIB procurement; (b) all
civil works contracts valued at US$500,000 or more; (c) the first expenditure requiring NCB



- 27 -
procurement in each of civil works and goods every year; (d) all consultants' services contracts valued at
US$50,000 or more if performed by a firm, and at US$10,000 or more if performed by an individual.
Disbursement against expenditures other than those specified in (a) through (d) in the above, and those
against activities not undertaken by contracts will be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures
(SOE). Documentation would be retained by the MEC and would be made available for IDA staff
review and the auditors. Applicable documentation requirements by contract value are summarized in
Table 3.6.
Table 3.6: Summary of Requirements for Procurement and Disbursement
Applicable                                     Required
Procurement           Review of         Documentation for IDA
Contract Value/a                      Procedure /b   Procurement by IDA           Disbursement/c
Civil Works
US$1,000,000 or more                                     ICB              Prior Review        Corrplete Documentation
Less than US$1,000,000 but US$500,000 or more            NCB              Prior Revew          Corrplete Documentation
Less than US$500,000 but US$100,000 or more
First contract each year                              NCB               Prior Review        Conmp,ete Documentation
Second and subsequent contracts each year             NCB          Random Ex-post Review            SOE
Less than US$100,000                               Three quotations    Random EK-post Review           SOE
Goods
US$100,000 or more                                       ICB              Prior Review        Cormplete Documentation
Less than US$100,000 but US$50,000 or more
For School I Office Furniture
First contract each year                         NCB               Prior Review        Corrplete Docurentation
Second and subsequent contracts each year        NCB          Random Ex-post Review            SOE
For Goods other than School I Office Furniture        LIB               Prior Review        Coniplete Documentation
Less than US$50,000 but US$10,000 or more        International Shopping  Random Ex-post Review         SOE
Less than US$10,000                                National Shopping   Random Ex-post Review           SOE
Consultants' Services /d
For Consulting Firms
All single-source contracts regardless of contract valu Consulants' Service  Prior Review   Corrplete Documentation
US$50,000 or more                              Consulants' Service      Prior Review        Corrplete Documentation
Less than US$50,000 (not single-source contract)  Consulants' Service  Random Ex-post Review        SOE
For Individual Consultants
US$1 0,000 or more                             ConsuKants' Service      Prior Review        Complete Documentation
Less than US$10,000                            Consultants' Service  Random Ex-post Review          SOE
All critical assignments as determ Ined by IDA    Consultants' Service     Prior Review        Corniete Documentation
Training and Operating Expenditures                         N/A          Random Ex-post Review            SOE
Xa ApplicaDle to 0o0t estirated value and any amendment
\b ICB-nternational Competitive Bidding; LIB-Limited International Competitive Bidding; NCB-National Competitive Bidding
\c SOE-Statement of Expenditure
\d Prior Review of Terms of Reference is required regardless of contract value
3.15     Disbursement Percentages. Disbursement percentages of IDA credit against eligible
expenditures would be: (a) for civil works, 85%; (b) for goods, 100%  of foreign expenditures, 100%  of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 85% of local expenditures; (c) for consultants' services, 100%;
(d) for training, 100%; (e) for operating expenditures, 85%. Consultants' Service includes, inter alia,
Project Secretariat staff and practicing teachers contracted for CIMATs on a part-time basis. MEC
supplemental staff includes Schools Information Officer (para. 2.30). Project allowance for existing
government posts (salary top-ups) would be fully provided from GOG counterpart funds, and ineligible
for IDA disbursement. The proposed allocation of credit proceeds by disbursement category are
presented in Table 3.7.
3.16     Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the Special Account (SA) opened in the
Bank of Guyana or in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA would be maintained and managed by MEC.
The authorized allocation would be US$1.2 million corresponding to about four months of estimated



- 28 -
project expenditures. The initial deposit would be limited to US$500,000, with the full amount of the
authorized allocation to be released when disbursements have reached SDR 2 million. Applications for
replenishment of the special account would be submitted on a monthly basis or when one-third of the
amount deposited has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements would
follow the same procedures described in para. 3.14. In addition, monthly bank statements of the SA
would be submitted with each replenishment application.
Table 3.7: Disbursement Category and Suggested Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Credit
Disbursementcategory                                              Amount              Percentage of IDA F'nancing
(USS million equivalent)
A. Clvil Works
1. Pilot Schools                                                 4.64 85%
2. Energency School Repair                                       4.45 85%
B. Goods
1. Piot Schools /a                                               0.81 100% of foreign expendtures, 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) and 85% of ocal expenditures
2. Other /b                                                      0.62 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) and 85% of local expendiures
C. Consultants Services
1. Assistance in the Development of School hnprovement Plans     0.10 100%
2. School Design Guideline/Standard and Nationw ide Rhyslcal Faciliy  0.07 100%
Survey
3. Other /c                                                      3.51 100%
D. Training                                                        0.41 100%
E. Operating Expenditures
1. MEC Supplemental Staff /d                                     0.15 85%
2. Project Secretariat /e                                        0.15 85%
F. PPF Refinancing                                                 0.55
Unallocated                                                           1.87
Total                                                                1 7.34
\a Textbooks, reading books, other instructional materiel and equipment, and furnture
\b Including the SE package (hardw are, softw are, appication development and training)
\c Including architecturalVengineering design and supervision of works for Piot Schools and Erergency School Repair
\d School kiformation Officer
\e Utilities, Cornrunications, Equipment Maintenance and Operation, and Supplies
D.    Accounting and Auditing
3.17     The MEC would keep project expenditure accounts, in accordance with internationally accepted
accounting practices. The Project Secretariat would employ a Procurement/Finance Coordinator to
maintain the project accounts under the supervision of the MEC's Deputy Permanent Secretary
(Finance).
3.18      Project accounts would be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the IDA. GOG
would provide copies of audited statements to the IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
The auditor's report would include opinions and comments, as necessary, on the project accounts and on
methods employed in compiling the statements of expenditure, their accuracy, the relevance of
supporting documents, their eligibility for financing in terms of the project's credit agreement, and the
standards of record-keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. As a condition of credit
effectiveness, the Government would contract audit services with an independent auditor whose
qualifications and terms of reference are satisfactory to IDA for the first year of the project (para.
3.41 (b)).



- 29 -
E.    Project Management and Implementation
3.19   Project Preparation and Readiness for Implementation. The proposed project was identified
by IDA staff who visited Guyana in September, 1994. It has been prepared by the Government, with the
assistance of the Project Preparation Facility and IDA staff. Preparation has been supported by PPF
P858-0.
3.20   The Secondary School Reform Program. The Project would be the first phase of a fifteen-year
Secondary School Reform Program (SSRP), which would require the long-term involvement of MEC, its
specialized units NCERD and CPCE, the University of Guyana, regional administrations, MOF, and
MPWCD. During project preparation, MEC assembled a reform management team (RMT), composed of
a number of senior MEC officials, including the Permanent Secretary, the Chief Education Officer and
other relevant MEC officers as well as a representative from MOF. The RMT has been and would be the
policy-setting group for the project. The management of secondary education was unified under the
ACEO/Secondary since September, 1995 when the post of ACEO/CHS was vacated. At negotiations,
GOG agreed to: (i) prepare, no later than December 31, 1996, an action plan satisfactory to IDA to
maintain the unity and cohesion of the management of secondary education, and (ii) commence, no
later than December 31, 1997, the implementation of the plan under the project. (para. 3.40 (g)).
3.21   Borrower Ownership. Throughout project preparation, careful measures have been taken to
establish borrower-ownership of the project and to ensure stakeholder participation. Immediately
following the preappraisal mission in March, 1995, the IDA financed a one-week study tour participated
by four senior MEC officials to Jamaica, where Bank-financed Education IV (L2899-JM) and Reform of
Secondary Education (ROSE; L3580-JM) projects have been implemented. Besides learning from the
Jamaican experience in secondary education reform, MEC staff and IDA staff engaged in intensive
discussions on detailed project design and strategies to complete project preparation. Overall criteria for
the selection of pilot schools were agreed on during this visit (para. 3.41 (a); Annex V). In addition, two
key MEC officials visited IDA headquarters in Washington for a period of two weeks and worked with
IDA staff to finalize the white-cover SAR as well as to learn about relevant Bank-funded educational
reforms in other countries.
3.22   Stakeholder Participation. Based on the agreed-on strategies, MEC has carried out extensive
consultations with stakeholders, including principals, teachers, parents, regional administrations, local
employers, Guyana Teacher's Union, Teachers Service Commission, etc. through formal and informal
meetings. Pilot schools were revisited and some of them were replaced. This consultative process has
began to tear down the strong sense of despair, which has been perpetuated by the prolonged neglect of
education and widespread in Guyana's education community, and is building momentum towards sound
education reform. The project, designed to promote decentralization of decision making and resource
management to the school and community level, would further encourage stakeholder participation.
3.23   Project Management. The project itself would be managed by a project director, who would
report to the Permanent Secretary of Education and would be a member of the RMT. He or she would be
responsible for the implementation of project activities and would manage the project through a small
Project Secretariat, which would be staffed with an Administrator, a Procurement/Finance Coordinator, a
Civil Works Coordinator, two administrative assistants, a secretary and a driver. The project director
would consult closely with the ACEO/Secondary and would manage individual project activities through
the individual MEC managers responsible, such as the Assistant Directors for Curriculum Development,
Learning Resources, and Test Development in NCERD for curriculum matters, the Chief Planning
Officer, for the School Information System, and the pilot school principals for School Improvement



- 30 -
Plans. The project would finance the salaries, office technology equipment, furniture and operational
costs of the Project Secretariat. As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Government would have
established the Project Secretariat, and appointed and posted the Project Director and the two
Coordinators of the Project Secretariat, with skills and experience satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.41
(d))
3.24   Education Program Quality. Developing and implementing pilot School Improvement Plans
under the project would be the responsibility of the pilot school principals and the School Improvement
Advisory Committees, under the SIP Guidelines developed and kept current by the ACEO/Secondary
(para. 2.6). The Project Director, other Secretariat staff, and consultants would provide the schools with
hands-on technical assistance in preparing SIPs.
3.25   The ACEO/Secondary would have overall responsibility for policy, planning and
implementation of training activities in the secondary schools in consultation with the REdOs and school
principals. All secondary training activities under the project would be managed by the Project Director
in close coordination with the ACEO/Secondary. The Learning Systems Committee under the
DCEO/Development would provide coordination among all pre- and in-service training activities. The
Project Director, with assistance from the Project Secretariat, would oversee both the project's training
activities for pilot school managers and its in-service training activities for pilot school teachers.
Training activities under the project for pilot school principals and senior managers, REdOs, DEOs and
DESs would be designed and carried out by MEC, MOF and other government personnel and a school
management specialist. Residential in-service teacher training would be contracted out to a training
institution under a Training Agreement with the project acceptable to IDA (para. 3.41 (a)). The
Project Director would supervise this contract.
3.26   Curriculum and textbook activities would be coordinated by the Assistant Directors for
Curriculum Development and Learning Resources, NCERD. Individual core-subject Curriculum,
Instructional Materials and Assessment Teams (CIMATs), composed of relevant NCERD curriculum
and textbook specialists, would carry out project activities in curriculum and instructional materials.
Three full-time supervision teams would be created to provide continuing curriculum support and
training to the pilot schools. The teams would consist of members from UG's training operation (teacher
trainers and subject specialists) and the regional education office (typically the DEO or DES).
Designated personnel from the Inspectorate would visit schools periodically. The Procurement/Finance
Coordinator would assume the overall responsibility to oversee the delivery of goods to pilot schools or
any other applicable recipient (para 2.16).
3.27   Civil Works. The Project Director and Civil Works Coordinator would be involved in assisting
the pilot schools develop the civil works components of their SIPs. Once MEC, the regional
administration, and the Project Secretariat have approved a SIP, including the civil works component, the
Civil Works Coordinator, with assistance from a consulting engineering/architectural firm, would
prepare and drawings and bidding documents for the pilot schools and assist the Project Secretariat in
supervising the civil works carried out under the project. Appointment and posting of a Civil Works
Coordinator whose qualification is acceptable to IDA is a condition of effectiveness (para. 3.41 (d)).
As a condition of disbursement against the civil works component, the Government would contract
an engineering/architectural firm for assistance in the preparation of drawing and bidding
documents and supervising construction (para. 3.42).
3.28   Project Launch Workshop. To initiate project implementation, a project launch workshop to
review the project and provide specific types of training for the project participants, would be held



- 31 -
following Board approval. Participants would be persons with significant responsibility under the
project, including Project Secretariat and other MEC personnel, regional officers, pilot school principals
and deputy principals, and selected officials from other ministries and agencies.. Project personnel, IDA
staff and selected specialists would lead workshop sessions. The topics to be covered would include: (i)
a detailed review of project design; (ii) a description of how all parts of the project fit together and
contribute to overall project goals; (iii) project management (i.e., Bank procurement and disbursement
procedures, financial management, a team approach to project management, auditing, reporting
requirements, monitoring and evaluation, and computer topics); (iv) a review of the major conceptual
elements underpinning project interventions (e.g., school-based management concepts, educational
finance, curriculum theory, international availability of appropriate teaching materials, training methods
and objectives, and school supervision practice), and (v) clarification of the tasks and responsibilities of
all project participants.
F.    Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
3.29   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). Draft project monitoring indicators prepared by MEC
were reviewed during appraisal. At negotiations, GOG submitted a revised list of the project's
monitoring/performance indicators (para. 3.40 (h)). The adoption of the project's monitoring
indicators acceptable to IDA as part of the operating manual is a condition of effectiveness (para.
3.41 (a)) To assist the Project Secretariat and MEC, the project would fund an education project
monitoring and evaluation specialist, under terms of reference acceptable to IDA, to carry out
independent: (i) Mid-Term Evaluation; and (ii) Implementation Completion Evaluation.
3.30   Required Reports and Update of Implementation Plan and Budget. In addition to financial
and audit reports specified in 3.18, GOG at negotiations agreed on the following reporting schedules.
The Project Director, on behalf of GOG, will submit for IDA's review: (i) no later than March 31 and
September 30 each year, a semi-annual reports detailing project activities during the preceding July-
December and January-June, respectively, with up-to-date monitoring indicators of the project and the
education system as agreed with IDA, starting September 30, 1996; and (ii) no later than October 31 each
year starting in 1996, the implementation plan--detailing, inter alia, physical implementation schedule,
procurement plan, and the budget request to be submitted for MOF--for the following GOG fiscal year,
based on the evaluation of monitoring indicators and in consultation with stakeholders (para. 3.40 (i)).
An implementation plan for the first year of the project as well as a five year indicative plan (Annex XI)
were reviewed during the appraisal. Updating the implementation plan for the first calendar year to
IDA's satisfaction is a condition of effectiveness (Para. 3.41 (e)). The reports and plans mentioned in
this paragraph would constitute bases for IDA supervision missions, which are tentatively scheduled for
November and May each year. Planned reporting (except audit reports) and supervision schedules are
presented as Annex VII, Table 3.
3.31    Mid-Term Review. The project mid-term review is planned for December, 1999, which is 3
years after effectiveness. It would assess the experience gained and lessons learned with the first group
of pilot schools and recommend adjustments in project planning and implementation.
G.    Benefits and Risks
3.32   Benefits. Immediate beneficiaries of the project would be (i) approximately 6,500 students who
are currently enrolled in the pilot schools and new entrants; (ii) about 300 teachers and administrators
directly involved in the reform program; (iii) some 15,000 students and 700 teachers of other secondary



- 32 -
schools, which would receive emergency repair services; and (iv) the MEC and regional administrations.
A greater number of students and teachers would benefit from an updated and more relevant curriculum,
greater availability and quality of textbooks and other instructional materials, and more effective teacher
training. The MEC would also benefit from its enhanced capacity for formulating sound sector policies
and implementing effective educational programs. This would build a foundation to ensure the
sustainability of follow-up activities. Lessons learned and institutions strengthened under the project
would be fully utilized in the Phase II project (para. 2.32 and 3.31). In the long run, the economy would
benefit from a larger pool of more skilled labor capable of adapting for rapidly changing economic and
business scenes and supporting the recent turnabout and growth of the economy.
3.33   Risks and Safeguards. Risks to the project include: (a) weak institutional capacity; (b) slow
procurement; (c) continuing high emigration rates among educated population; (d) the uncertainty of
public support; and (e) limited availability of counterpart financing.
3.34   Weak Institutional Capacity. This is a public sector wide problem caused primarily by low wage
levels, which is being addressed in the on-going IDA funded Public Administration Program as well as
other programs supported by various bilateral donors. National and regional administrations suffer from
serious shortages of qualified personnel. High staff turnover rates, hindering institutional memory, could
seriously disrupt or delay critical project activities. The project would attempt to mitigate such risks by:
(i) setting a limited number of attainable objectives, including key elements for institutional
strengthening and follow-up operations; and (ii) placing qualified consultants in key sections of the MEC
to supplement the ministry's capacity and provide it with institutional continuity throughout the duration
of the project.
3.35   Slow Procurement. As a rule, GOG employs strict competitive bidding procedures. Nearly all
contracts are required to be advertised, and any contracts over G$6 million (US$42,000) and G$9 million
(US$63,000) must be reviewed by the Central Tender Board and the Cabinet, respectively. Although
GOG procedures are compatible with IDA guidelines, the low thresholds and slow review processes
resulting from weak institutional capacity would hinder project implementation. GOG is currently
attempting to streamline procurement procedures with assistance from IDB and UNDP. The project
would employ a Procurement/Finance Coordinator in the Project Secretariat and finance the use of
procurement agents to minimize the risk (para. 3.8).
3.36   Continuing High Migration Rates Among Educated Population. There is a possibility that some
teachers, government staff and better educated secondary graduates trained under the project may simply
leave the country. This risk, however, will be mitigated if Guyana sustains high rates of economic growth
and improved conditions for teachers.
3.37   Uncertainty in Public Support. Although the Guyanese are, in general, supportive of education,
drastic changes may not be well received. Vested interests of certain groups, particularly of those who
have benefited most from the present system need to be considered. To generate broad-based support for
a long term reform, the project would fund social awareness campaigns and disseminate examples of
school level success through the pilot schools program. This would hopefully create a more favorable
ground for tackling more challenging and controversial issues at later stages of the reform process. At
the school level, SIACs (para. 2.5) are expected to evolve into an institution that would assure
sustainability of school improvement by mobilizing parent and community participation.
3.38   Budgetary Constraints Caused by Severe Debt-Service Obligations Could Limit the Availability
of Counterpart funds. This risk has been reduced by designing a project with less counterpart funding



- 33 -
needs. Incremental recurrent costs generated by the project are estimated to be about 5% of annual
recurrent education expenditure (para. 3.6), which is within a reasonable and sustainable range
considering that economic growth is projected at about 7% a year and that tax revenue is also expected to
grow. Strengthening of budget planning (para. 2.26) would contribute directly to sustainability by
providing instruments to allocate scarce resources more rationally and efficiently.
H.    Environment
3.39   Since the project would finance technical assistance and a limited-scale school rehabilitation, it
would produce no significant negative environmental impact. No resettlement is expected. An
environmental rating of"C" has been given to the Project.
I.     Agreements Reached and Recommendation
3:40   At negotiations, the Government agreed to the following:
(a)    To provide annual budget support, equivalent to at least US$3.00 per student on the
average, to pilot school discretionary funds for uses specified in their approved SIPs
(para. 2.8);
(b)    To establish a CIMAT for each of Language Arts and Math no later than December 1,
1996, and for each of Science and Social Studies, no later than September 1, 1998 (para.
2.14).
(c)    To adopt and implement a textbook policy no later than September 1, 1996 (para. 2.17);
(d)    To maintain MEC's responsibility for the clearance of annual regional education budget
submissions prior to MOF approval (para. 2.26).
(e)    To hire a Schools Information Officer (para. 2.30) under terms of reference acceptable
to IDA no later than September 1, 1996;
(f)    To allocate yearly project counterpart funds as agreed with IDA (para. 3.5);
(g)    (i) To prepare, no later than December 31, 1996, an action plan satisfactory to IDA to
maintain the unity and cohesion of the management of secondary education, and (ii) to
commence, no later than December 31, 1997, the implementation of the plan under the
project (para. 3.20);
(h)    To revise the submitted drafts of: (i) the SIP Guidelines (para. 2.6); and (ii) the list of
project monitoring indicators (para. 3.29); and,
(i)    To submit reports in accordance with the agreed schedules (para.3.30).
3.41   As conditions of credit effectiveness, the Government will:
(a)    Adopt a set of Operational Manuals for the project, satisfactory to IDA, consisting of: (i)
pilot school eligibility criteria (para. 3.21; Annex V-para.10); (ii) the model of a



- 34 -
Training Agreement (para. 3.25); (iii) criteria and methods to select sample schools for
the Nationwide Physical Facility Survey (para.2.28); and (iv) monitoring indicators for
the Project (para. 3.40 (h));
(b)    Contract for audit services with an independent auditor whose qualifications and terms
of reference are satisfactory to IDA for the first year of the project (para. 3.18);
(c)    Submit the SIP Guidelines satisfactory to IDA (para. 2.6);
(d)    Establish the Project Secretariat and complete the appointment and posting of the Project
Director and the two Coordinators, with qualifications and terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA, of the Project Secretariat (paras. 3.23 and 3.27); and,
(e)    Submit the updated implementation plan for the first calendar year of the project
satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.30).
3.42   As a condition of disbursement against Civil Works (applicable to both the Pilot School and
Emergency School Repair subcategories), the Government would contract with an
engineering/architectural firm for assistance in preparing drawings and bidding documents and
supervising construction (para. 3.27);
3.43   As a condition of disbursement against the Emergency School Repair sub-category, the
Government would complete the Nationwide Physical Facility Survey in the agreed sequence (para.
2.28).
3.44   Recommendation: Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$17.3 million equivalent to the Republic of Guyana for
a period of 40 years, including a grace period of 10 years, on standard IDA terms.



- 35 -
GUYANA
SECONDARY SCHOOL REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX I: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Secondary School Enrollment, By System, 1990-1991
NO. OF
SCHOOL SYSTEM                SCHOOLS             ENROLLMENT                   PERCENT OF TOTAL                       BY SEX
MALE FEMALE  TOTAL  MALE  FEMALE TOTAL   MALE  FEMALE  TOTAL
Generat Secondary                     61       14949      20407     35356        44          56       50        42          58       100%
Community High                        38        9012       8014      f7026       26          22       24        53          47       100%
Secondary Depts of primary          200#       10201       8334      18535       30          23       26        55          45       t00%
Total                                   1     34162       36755      70917      10)         100      13)        48          52       100%
Source: MEC. Enrollment data for the years 1991-1992 and 992-1993 were not processed or available at the time of the consultant's m ission
Oincl.President'sCollege: #Figurenotavailableduringmission,thisisanorderofmagnitudeguess
Table 2: Secondary Enrollment, By Grade, 1990-1991
MALE FEMALE  TOTAL  MALE  FEMALE TOTAL   MALE  FEMALE  TOTAL
FORMI                       9,666        9,576       9,242       50%          50%       ID0%        96%           94%         95%
FORM II                     8,515        8,606        17,121     50%          50%D      100%        86%           86%         86%
FORM  III                   7,449        7,942       t5,391      48%          52%       100%        75%           80%         77%
FORMIV                      5,929        6,789       12,71B      47%          53%       100%        60%           68%         64%
FORM V                      2,492        3,699        6,191      40%O         60%       X00%        25%           36%         30%
FORM VI                        111         143         254       44%          56%       1D0%          P/           1/O
TOTAL                      34,E12       36,755       70,917      48%          52%       100%
Source: World Bank estimates based on 1986 Census single-year sample-survey data and the assumption that Form I enrollment
systems is 96% of the 12-year-old group. These enrollment rabos can be scaled for alternabve assumptions.



- 36-
Table 3: Secondary Enrollment, By Region, 1990-1991
REGION
4
2           3           4                     5         6       10  WESTERN
GEOR                                  BORDER
GETO                                 REGIONS
WN                                 117,8,9)   GUYANA
TOTAL ENROLLMENT                   3,602        9,512     10.783        20,351   5,854   13,055    3,965          3,795        70,917
Regional%                           5%          13%         15%          29%       8%       18%       6%           5%          100%
(PERCENT)
GENERAL SECONDARY                     35          45          36            61       51       61       52             11          50
COMMUNITY HIGH SCHOOLS                37          28          29           34         9        11       7            21           24
PRIMARY TOPS                          28          27          35             5       40       28       40            68           26
TOTAL                                100          100        100           100      100      100      100           100           100
Source: MEC
Table 4: Recurrent Educational Expenditures, By Program And By Region, Revised 1992 Budget ($G
Million)
REGION
2           3                          4                  5      6    10                   TOTAL GUYANA
WESTERN
BORDER
CENTRAL                       PRESIDENT'S   GEORG  OTHER                                    REGIONS
PROGRAM            MINISTRY                       COLLEGE          ETOWN  REGIONS 4                            (1,7,8,6)       AMT          %
SECONDARY                   60'         12          30        37            79         26          12    30    10        6           301         27
PRIMARY                                 26          38                      61         63         22     71   18        41           340         30
NURSERY                                  9          17                      23         22          9    10      6        4            98         9
POST SECONDARY              173                                                                                                      173         15
OTHER EDUCATION             220                                                                                                      220         19
TOTAL EDUCATION             453         46          85        37           163         111        42    t11   34         51          1133       100
CULTUREANDOTHER             142                                                                                                       142
TOTAL MINISTRYf             595         48          85        37              163      il1        42    ill   34         51          1275
Source: Ministry ofFinance and  orld Bank's eaimnates.
o Univeralty ofGuayna budgetchenneled thmugh Ihe MinisIry ofFinance in 1992. Totl Ministry includesltrese funds.
* Extamalexaminatino. Approximailon based on budgetsubmission for1993.



- 37 -
Table 5: Secondary Recurrent Expenditures And Per-Student Unit Cost, By Region#
REGION
2          3                       4                        6        a      10
WESTERN
BORDER
PRESIDENT'S   GEORG  OTHER                                          REGIONS        TOTAL
COLLEGE          ETOWN  REGIONS 4                                    (1,7,5,9)    GUYANA
INCLUDING PRESIDENTrS COLLEGE AND PRORATED EXTERNAL EXAMS
GS MIL'                               13        40         37            98          33           18      43        11       7            301
UNIT COST GS'00013                   5.2       5.8        123 2          5.1        4.7           5.1    46       4 9       5.7           5.7
UNITCOSTUSS                          42         46        986            41          38           41      36       39       46            46
RELATIVE UNIT COST'                 104%      115%       2 154%         101%        94%         103%     91%     97%       114%          100%
NOT INCLUDING PRESIDENT'S COLLEGE OR PRORATED EXTERNAL EXAMS
GS MIL.                               12        30                       79          26           12      30       10        6            204
UNIT COST GS'000$                    4.5       4 3                       4.1        3.7          3.5     3 2       4.1      5 2           3.9
UNITCOSTUSS                          36         34                       33          29           28      25       33       42            31
RELATIVE UNIT COST                  114%      110%                      105%        94%         91%      81%    105%       134%          100%
Source: World Bank
# ForGeneral Secondary and Community High Schools. Does not include expenditures forsecondary enrollment in pmary schools and administrative
expenditure included in the central ministry budget.
- Includes the cost ofextemal examinations prorated by GSS fifth Form enrollment
13 Unit cost calculated using 1992 budgetfigures and 1990-1991 enrollment data (exceptforPresident's College, which uses 1992 -1993 budget
enrollment), since laterenrollmentdata was unavailable.
Relative unit costs are calculated using a unit costforthe country that is calculated not including Presidnt's Collage cost.
Table 6: International Comparisons In Enrollment And Educational Expenditure
Enrollment                      Central Government Educational Expenditure
As % of Central
Per capita                            Govemment
GNP Per capita     % Age Group in      % Age Group in        Education                               Recurrent
(USS)             Prmary             Seconary        Expenditure (US$)     As % of GNP         Expenditures
English-Speaking Caribbean Average           3.410                  97 (               68 @               211 #               5.0                18.5
Middle Income Latin Amenca and the
Caribbean Average (1990)                     1,338                 102                 37                 232                 2.8                15.8
Low Income Countres Average (1990)             303                  74                 25                  67                 2.6                13 7
Guyana 1992'                                   330                  98                 70                   9                 2 8                 4.5
Guyana 1994'                                   580                  98                 70                  14                 2 4                 5 8
Sources: World Bank, World Developmant Report 1992 and other World Bank Documents
World Bank estimates, based on GNP estimates of Intemational Monetary Fund and Guyana Estimates of the Public
Sector, 1993 and 1995.
# Not Including Jamacia.



- 38-
Table 7: CXC Pass Rates In Core Subjects*, International Comparison, 1989
ENGLISH  MATH                               ENGLISH  MATH                           ENGLISH  MATH
(Percent)
ANTIGUA                 51        36   JAMAICA                      27          22    GUYANA                 12            13
BARBADOS                41        42    ST. KITTS                   42          35
BELIZE                  30        40    ST, LUCIA                   45          32
AVERAGE OF
DOMINICA                29        27    ST. VINCENT                 38          32    OTHER LISTED
CARIBBEAN
GRENADA                 22        31    TRINIDAD & TOBAGO           38          29    COUNTRIES             36            33
Source: World Bank
Percentage of candidates achieving Grades I and 11.
Table 8: Secondary Progression Rates, 1990-1991
(Percent - Grade 7 Enrollment = 100)
Grade 7   Grade 8     Grade 9   Grade ID       Grade 11
BOYS               General Secondary Schools              IO        92           89         71           66
Community High Schools                100        104         88          70            6
Primary Tops                          1D0        74          58          46            0
ALL SECONDARY SYSTEMS                 100        88          77          61           26
GIRLS              General Secondary Schools             1D0         99          99         86            82
Community High Schools                1)0        1)1         89          77            6
Primary Tops                          100        69          56          45            0
ALL SECONDARY SYSTEMS                 1D0        90          83          71           39
BOTH SEXES         General Secondary Schools              100       96           95         80           75
Community High Schools                1D0       102          88          73            6
Primary Tops                          1)0        72          57          45            0
ALL SECONDARY SYSTEMS                 100        89          80          66           32
Source: MEC



- 39 -
Table 9: Secondary Attendance Rates, By Secondary Track, October 1988
BOYS                                    GIRLS
FORM             I      II    III    IV   ALL                I      II   III   IV   ALL
GUYANA          All Secondary                        68      64      63      57      63         69      64    67    62        65
GSS             Country Outside    G'town#           80      75      74      74      76          83     77    80    76        79
Georgetown                          61      52      54      56      56          56      35    53      54     50
CHS             Country Outside    G'town#           77      70      65      61      70          76     72    67      66      71
Georgetown                          83      64      67      60      69          74      72    67      60     69
TOPS            Country Outside    G'town#           57      57      54      37      53         58      59    59    44        56
Georgetown                          40      53      57      40      49          41      66    70    40       58
Source: Ministry of Education and Cultural Development, schools survey October 988.
Note: Form V and V( data are not presented or used in the analysis.
#Weightedaverageofusabledatausing  990-1919enrollmentdataasweights: GSS-Regions2,3,4,(notincl. Georgetown),5,6,
1; CHS - the same except excluding Region 3; primary tops - all 1 regions.
Table 10: General Secondary School Students, 1990, Repetition Indicators
13-YEAR OLDS                             16-YEAR OLDS              ROUGH
12-YEAR OLDS            PERCENT    14 YEAR OLDS    PERCENT                            REPETITION
PERCENT LOWER  LOWER THAN PERCENT LOWR  LOWER THAN   RATE 16-YEAR-
THAN FORM I              FORM II    THAN FORM III    FORM IV                             OLDSQ
BOTH SEXES                 0                    20                   27                   35                    22
GUYANA        BOYS                        0                    22                  30                    40                    26
GIRLS                      0                     19                  24                   31                     9
Source: MEC
@ This rate is constructed on the rough assumptions thatone-third of the 13-year-olds in Form I are repeaters and thatthe increasefrom
age 15 in those lowerforms (15%) also comprises repeaters.






- 41 -
GUYANA
SECONDARY SCHOOL REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX II: THE EDUCATION SECTOR - ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONAL
RESPONSIBILITIES
1.    In 1985 the Government of Guyana decentralized responsibility for the provision and
administration of several services to ten newly established Regional Administrations. Education was
among these functions. The functions and responsibilities of the different administrative levels are as
follows:
THE CENTRAL LEVEL
The Ministry of Education and Cultural Development
2.     Organizational Structure: The MEC is headed by a politically appointed Minister. All positions
below the Minister are career civil service positions, including the Permanent Secretary.
3.     Responsibilities: The MEC sets national education policy and establishes a national curriculum
which all Regional education bodies are meant to adhere to. The MEC is also responsible for monitoring
education indicators in the Regions to ensure that serious inequities in education services and quality do not
arise. The MEC also selects, funds, procures, and distributes textbooks to all schools.
4.    In addition, the MEC is responsible for the administration of all schools in the metropolitan
Georgetown area. An Assistant Chief Education Officer (Georgetown) supervises these functions and
works within the same terms of reference as a R.Ed.O.
5.     Staffing: The MEC cannot directly hire its staff. It prepares advertisements and submits these to
the Public Service Commission (PSC) which runs the advertisements and reviews candidates. The PSC
short lists candidates for the MEC and recommends which candidate should be selected. In most cases
MEC input is, however, obtained during the preparation of the short lists.
6.     The MEC currently suffers severe shortages of trained, technically competent staff. This is very
largely a consequence of low civil service salaries.
The Teacher's Service Commission
7.     The TSC is a para-statal body over which the MEC has no direct authority. The functions of the
TSC were reduced under the decentralized system when certain functions became the responsibility of the
Regional Education Officers (REdOs). Presently, the TSC's responsibilities are to hire and discipline
tenured teachers. When a vacancy for a tenured teacher arises in a school, the REdO advises the TSC which
places a national advertisement, selects and appoints the candidate. Similarly, if a school experiences
problems with a tenured teacher it sends a formal complaint to the REdO who communicates this to the
TSC which then reviews the case and decides on appropriate action.



- 42 -
THE REGIONAL LEVEL
8.    In each Region, a Regional Administration is responsible for budgeting and oversight functions of
four services, one of which is education. The Regional Administration is headed by a Regional Executive
Officer (RExO) who is supported by a staff which varies with the population size of the Region. Political
representation in each Region is achieved through a Regional Democratic Council (RDC). Council
members of the RDC are politically appointed, reflecting the proportion of votes cast for the different
national political parties in that Region during the national elections. The RExO is a civil servant who acts
in the capacity of clerk to the RDC. In practice, RDCs in many Regions are weak and uninvolved in the
Regional Administration. As a result, RExOs often wield considerable powers.
9.     Some combination of councilors in each RDC are meant to participate in an Education
Subcommittee whose function is to establish education policy for the Region. These Subcommittees are
rarely found in practice, however. In Regions where Education Subcommittees function, the REdO, despite
his technical expertise, cannot participate actively to influence the Subcommittees decisions. The REdO is
only a silent observer to the Subcommittee meetings. Education administration in each Region is the
responsibility of an Education Department which is attached to each Regional Administration.
Regional Education Departments
10.    Organization Structure: Regional Education Departments are staffed by:
*  A REdO who is appointed by the MEC (through the Ministry of Public Works), but who reports
both to the MEC and the RExO. The REdO is the key education official in the Regions.
*  One or two District Education Officers who assist the REdO with his duties
*  One or more Education Supervisors, who inspect schools and monitor performance
*  In one Region the Education Department employs a Personnel Officer.
11.    Responsibilities: REdOs have enormous responsibilities. They are responsible for: implementing
national education policy in the Region; preparing the regional education budget; deciding on moneys to be
allocated to each school in the Region; paying teacher salaries; negotiating with RExOs for education
moneys on a monthly basis; purchasing all supplies and equipment for each school in the Region;
supervising all infrastructure rehabilitation programs; monitoring education quality in the region;
performing all personnel functions related to school staff, including the appointment of temporary and
acting teachers; and, supervising Education Department employees.
12.    The REdO's work is made more difficult by the fact that they are accountable to two different
bodies -- the MEC(on curriculum and education policy issues) and the RExO. (on finance and
infrastructure issues). This bifurcated line of responsibility causes problems and, in practice, most REdOs
report almost exclusively to the RExO. This is because of the RExOs' physical proximity and because of
their control over the education purse. The MEC cannot directly censure REdOs for poor performance; the
Public Service Commission does this at the request of the MEC. It is widely acknowledged that this system
works poorly.
13.    REdOs prepare the Region's education budget. Although they should liaise with the MEC on the
budget preparation there is no requirement that they do so. In practice they do not. In most Regions,
REdOs prepare the budget without input from the schools. Budgets are not based on objective criteria such
as student enrollment. The REdO's estimated budget is adjusted by the RExO who then submits it, as part
of the entire Regional Administration budget, to the MOF. Each Region then negotiate adjustments to the



- 43 -
proposed budget with the MOF. The agreed-on budget is then transferred by the MOF to the Regional
Administration on a monthly basis. The RExO then releases funds to the R.Ed.O. Any moneys un-spent
each month are forfeited.
14.    Staffing: REdOs are recruited from a pool of senior teachers and headmasters/mistresses and
receive no formal training to prepare them for the additional administrative responsibilities. They are
recruited by the MEC (through the Ministry of Public Works which has responsibility for advertising and
identifying candidates).
THE LOCAL LEVEL
15.    Schools cannot effectively influence education policy or management decisions. No system is in
place whereby principals or teachers can inform or influence REdO or Regional Administration decisions;
they must exert influence purely through informal channels.
16.    Community participation in the administration and management of schools varies widely across
regions and schools. It tends to be weak in all but the best performing schools. Although all schools are
meant to have PTAs or school boards they are found principally in better performing secondary schools.
PTAs do not seem to work to influence the curriculum or core education issues. Rather, they raise funds for
the school. There are no restrictions on the way these funds may be used; they may even be used to
supplement teacher salaries.






- 45 -
GUYANA
SECONDARY SCHOOL REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX III: STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION SECTOR AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Figure 1: Ministry of Education and Cultural Development: Management Structure for Basic Education
Penaet SeceJ
|  DeptyChief EdDcpton Officer |jerfDfee,| DepiyCh5fEdcti-on Orn                                                                                           Edi. Fi ......
L De.-lopment                        (T. /ToHirZ l-                       |                       Adrminstraton                                           (T. Bea Hcd)T
Assstant Chief Ecation Offi |        Assistant Chief Education Officer
Stiper-tendent. Exa-n-nUs    | ||           .r       i CmH d f     |           Secondy School                         Primnry School
Assistant Chief Educits- Officer
q   D,rec--r, NCERD    1    ll    Cn.S Worb Cooriuralbr       l             Inspectorete          r
R-prmcWy, CPCE                                                      _Retonl Education Officer             Regional Education Officer
(Region )                            (Regon 2)
| Regionl EduceLion Officcr           Regional Education Officer
(Region 3)                           (Region 4)
Regional Edtion Officer    L-|   Regional Education Officer
(Reg.gn,)                            (Region 6)
Regional Education Officer            Regional Education Officer
|   (Region9r                             Rgo,, 
(Rg-7)                           (Region 8
Regonl  dtiatonOfficrRgonlEuaio   fie
(RSi   )                         (Regio  0)
A-siatni Chief Education Officer 
Georgetown 



- 46 -
Figure 2: Financial Structure of Secondary Education System
Ministry of Finance
Georgetown                                                                      Other Regions
Ministry of Education and Cultural Development                                               Regional Administration
Permanent Secretary/Deputy Permanent Secretary (Finance)                                        Regional Executive Officer
Assistant Chief Education Officer                                                   Regional Education Officer
Georgetown
District Education Officers                                                       District Education Officers
District Education Supervisors                                                    District Education Supervisors
Principals                 Principals                 Principals                 Principals                 Principals                  Principals
General Secondary Schools    Community High Schools    Primary Schools with a    General Secondary Schools    Community High Schools     Primary Schools with a
Primary Top                                                                      Primary Top



- 47 -
Figure 3: Project Secretariat and Coordination Mechanism
Assistant Chief Education Officer             Project Director                       Director
Secondary                                rNLCvNCERDl
|Applicable Regional                                                                     ead
| Education Officcr  r                          q  Finance/Procurement |      ,        Curriculum Development and
Coordinator                     and Implementation Unit
*Head
Principal                 Principal                 Coordinatorks                   Learning Resources Unit
Anna Regina   ll   1I    L'Aventure    !l                                    .        Test Development Unit
*Head
Administrator           :        Materials Production Unit
[ rincipal         I      Principal     I                                  .     _ Head
ringcp [l   Ancpale                                                       ,        Distance Education and Environment Unit
ni Principal  ll   Principal  1l  L 1 Dean, Faculty of Education
Principal       IPrincipal              III                                        University of Guyana
BelladrumFort Wellington  1i
Principal    l            Principal     l
Manchester               Vrymans Erven
Principal          n      Principal
Mackenzie      I            Dolphin
Principal           .     Principal
Tucville     lCampbeliville



1.  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 49 -
GUYANA
SECONDARY SCHOOL REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX IV: SALARY SCALE COMPARISON - CIVIL SERVICE VS. TEACHING SERVICE
Clvil Service Scale              Monthly Salary Mldpolnt (GS)                   Teaching Service Scale
l,bUU   1t(A)    Junior Teacher/TeacherAide
CS 15,8
6,0  TS 1(B)    Acting Teacher
CS 2                                                                   6477
6,5W  TS 1(C)    Pupil Teacher I
7,000 TS 1(U)    Pupil Teacher n
7,0u0  IS 2(A)    Temporary unqualined Assistant
CS 3                                                                   7360
,000 TS 2(B)    Temporary Qualified iII
CS 4                                                                   8,243
9     TS 2(C)    Temporary Qualified 11
Cs 5                                                                   9,715
CS 7                                                                  1,3
TS 3       Temporary Qualified 1 / Third Teacher
16,5D0 TS 4       Non-Graduate Senior Assitant
CS 8       Education Superusor / CPCE: Lecturer If NCERD:
Cuniculum Subject Specialist; Education Methdology        17,370
Tutor, Deputy Co-ordinator, Distance Education &
Information Unit I REGIONS: Edcuation Supermsor
18,500 TS 5(A)    Non-Graduate Senior Master / Non-Graduate Head
Master Grade 'D' / Nursery Head of Department
10 S (sB)    Non-Graduate Head Master Grade 'E' I Nurcery Non-
19,000           Graduate Head Master Grade 'C'
19,500 rs 6       Untrained Graduate
19,5    TS 7(A)    Non-Graduate Deputy Head Master Grade a'B
20,500 lb 7(d)    Non-Graduate Head Master Grade 'U'  Nursery Non-
Graduate Head Master Grade 'B'
21,D   I b a(A)    I rained Graduate
21,5D0 rs 8(s)    Non-Graduate Deputy Head Master Grade A'
CS 9       Work-Study Officer I CPCE: Lecturer Il / NCERD:Test        21,609
Development OMcer II
22,500 TS 9       Non-Graduate Head Master Grade 'C' / Nursery
Graduate Head Master Grade 'A'
23,50 TS 10      Grnaduate Senior Assistant
24, 5W  TS 11     Non-GFaduate Heaa Master Grade a
25l000b 1z  -Graduate Senior Mater-Head of uepartment r Nursery
Graduate Head Master Grade 'C'
26,500 TS 13      Gmrduate Deputy Head Master Grade '' / Non-
Graduate Head Master Grade 'A'
lb50  T  14    C3raduate Heand Master Grade I' il Nursery Graduate
27,500 TS 14      Head Master Grade 'B'
CS 10      Education Oficr I I CPCE: Senior Lecturer NCERD:
Materals DeWlopment Offlicer, Senior Subject              27,556
Specialist
ZF,53w TS 15      Graduate Deputy Head Master Grade 'A'
29.750 TS 16      Gnaduruate Hea Master Grade `C I Nuramy Graduae-
Head Master Grade 'A'
31,750 Tl 17      Graduate Heed Master Grade 'a'
3377o  lb 18      Gnrduate Head Master Grade 'A'
CS 11      Superintendent of Examinations; Senior Education
Offcer, Schools Inapector / CPCE: Vice Principal /        35,151
REGIONS: Regional Education Officer
35,750 Ts 19      Graduate Sixth Form Head
CS 12      Assistant Chid Education Officer; Chief Planning
Offlicer / CPCE: Pdncipal / NCERD: Co-ordinator,
Distance Educatlon & Information Unit; Leaming            44,867
Resource DeoWopment OMcer, Chief Test DeWipment
Officer, Curiculum DeWlopment Officer,
Cs 13      Deputy Permanet Secretary; LDeputy (C;hef Education        57 290
Officer / NCERD: Director
cS 14      Permanent secretary 7 Chir 'ucation UMicer






- 51 -
GUYANA
SECONDARY SCHOOL REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX V: PILOT SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PLANS
Objectives
1.    The proposed project would fund about 12 pilot school improvement plans (SIP) in selected
secondary and primary top schools. The SIPs, which would be prepared by the schools themselves,
would be expected to have among their objectives to improve school performance in areas such as: (i)
increasing student achievement; (ii) reducing repetition and drop-out rates; (iii) dealing with student
behavioral problems; (iv) enhancing teacher performance; (v) improving school facilities and, if
necessary, reducing overcrowding and, (vii) increasing parent and community participation and support
in schools.
2.    The 12 pilot SIPs constitute the first stage of a long-term nation-wide program to improve the
quality of Guyana's secondary schools. Consequently, they are intended to be both cost-effective and
replicable on a large scale given Guyana's limited financial and human resources. In financial terms,
each pilot plan would include funding over a three-year period for inputs for: (i) teacher training, (ii)
textbooks and learning resources, and (iii) physical improvements. These inputs would be provided by
the MEC directly to the school on the basis of the SIP. In addition, each pilot school would be provided
a small amount of discretionary funding, equivalent to US$3.00 per student per year, for three years, for
direct investment by the school administration for school improvement initiatives not provided by the
MEC directly.
Financial Arrangements
3.    Each pilot school would be expected to mobilize supplementary financial and other support for
their SIPs from their respective Regional Executive Officers (RExO) and their local communities.
Accordingly, community representatives and parents would be invited to serve on a School Improvement
Advisory Committee (SIAC) with the principal, teachers and students, which each school would be
required to establish for preparing their plans. The RExOs in turn, would be asked to commit funds in
support of the plan and to sustain the investments in school improvements following the first three years
of project funding. The amounts of recurrent funding required by each school following the pilot project
will be calculated during preparation of the SIPs.
Management
4.    The management arrangements for the SIPs are as follows. The Project Director would have overall
responsibilities within MEC for the implementation of SIPs as for all other aspects of the project.
Developing and implementing SIPs under the project would be the responsibility of the pilot school
principals and the SIAC assisted by the DEO and REdO. MEC support for different aspects of SIPs would
be the direct responsibility of the Assistant Chief Education Officer (ACEO ) Secondary and the respective
MEC regular line managers of departments and/or contractors.



- 52 -
SIP Approval and Funding
5.    The SIP would be submitted by school principals to the Regional Education Officer who, in
consultation with the Project Director and the ACEO (Secondary), would be responsible for the final
approval of the SIPs in accordance with evaluation guidelines which would be developed by the Project
Director and the ACEO (Secondary).
Monitoring and Support
6.    The SIPs would be monitored by a team comprised of the ACEO (Secondary), the Project
Director and other persons called upon for specific assignments, i.e. teacher training. Civil works would
be monitored by the Project Engineer and an independent firm hired by the project.
Guidelines
7.    The ACEO (Secondary) would prepare guidelines with the assistance of the Project Director, for
school administrators and others on the formulation, implementation and monitoring of SIPs. The
guidelines would be prepared with the help of principals, teachers, community leaders and MEC staff.
The SIP guidelines would provide guidance on matters such as: (i) the role of principals, teachers,
students and the community in the SIP planning and implementation process; (ii) role and functions of a
School Improvement Advisory Committee (SIAC) ; (iii) how to define basic problems and objectives of
the School Improvement Plan; (iv) how to prepare a budget; (v) support to be provided by MEC and (vi)
scheduling for preparing and implementing a SIP.
8.    The MEC would issue guidelines and indicative budget figures to guide pilot schools in
preparing their SIPs. The SIPs are to be kept simple, but would be expected to include, inter alia: (i) a
description of the school's student population and teaching staff, including quantitative and qualitative
information; (ii) objectives for student learning outcomes and the rationale for them, (iii) priority areas to
be improved in educational quality and infrastructure with quantitative and qualitative targets;
(iv) strategies to take advantage of project inputs in improving identified areas; (v) implementation
strategies and sequencing, (vi) strategies to effectively involve and obtain support from teachers,
students, parents and the community, (vii) negotiated arrangements for greatly increased mobility
between the pilot school and geographically accessible schools offering upper-secondary education, and
(viii) a detailed budget for the school, within MEC guidelines and RA requirements, to finance the
planned school improvements.
9.    The MEC would organize orientation and training in the SIP guidelines for principals, teachers,
the SIAC and District Education officers.
10.   Twelve pilot schools were chosen by the MEC during project preparation, following visits and
interviews with school officials and based on the following criteria: (i) strong leadership of the principal;
(ii) willingness of the teachers; (iii) geographic diversity and easy accessibility from Georgetown to
facilitate management and monitoring; and (iv) participation of the three main types of secondary
schools.



- 53 -
11.   The following schools have been identified as initial 12 pilot school improvement projects:
Table 1: Profile of Pilot Schools
Number of
Teachers
Type of              Number of (Full Time
Name         School \a   Region \b  Students Equivalent)
Anna Regina          CHS          2            739      43.0
L'Aventure            PT          3            149      12.0
Uitv4ugt              PT          3            524      18.0
Annandale            GSS          4            580      32.3
Belladrum            CHS          5            614      34.0
Fort Wellington      CHS          5            160      11.2
Manchester           CHS          6            361      18.0
Vrymans Erven        CHS          6            406      16.3
Mackenzie            G3S         10            657      31.0
Dolphin              CHS         GI            721      23.4
lucville             PT          GT           919       35.0
Campbelhoille        CHS         GI            560      -1.0
\a CRS - CorrnniFty High School; iSbs (- eneral Secondary School;
PT - Prirnary Top (Secondary Departnment of a Prmary School)
\b GT - Georgetow n
12.   The mid-term review would assess the experience and lessons learned with the first group of pilot
schools and recommend needed adjustments in the planning and implementation of the project in subsequent
years. The mid-term review would also decide whether funding for additional pilot schools would be
provided from the unallocated portion of the project.



I



- 55 -
GUYANA
SECONDARY SCHOOL REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX VI: SCHOOL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
1.    Guyana critically needs to upgrade the knowledge and skills of secondary school students'
through a reform of curriculum, teacher training and increased availability of textbooks and instructional
materials. The three-tier secondary school structure is both inefficient and inequitable. While the overall
quality of education is sub-optimal, General Secondary Schools (GSS) have higher quality teachers,
buildings and teaching materials while the Community High Schools/Primary Tops (CHS/PT),
particularly the PTs, have deficiencies in all educational inputs.. The primary factors contributing to poor
quality include (i) passive approach to teaching,; (ii) focus on compartmentalized content-driven
curriculum; (iii) lack of adequate support resources and (iv) absence of a whole school approach to
teaching.
2.    The overall purpose of the curriculum reform is to update the content and approaches to teaching
and learning to modify the existing program in light of changes in the demand on education. Specifically,
the curriculum reform would (i) develop-and implement a common curriculum; (ii) provide appropriate
teacher training to support the curriculum and (iii) provide supporting instructional materials and
textbooks.
CURRICULUM
3.    The foundation of the curriculum reform is a curriculum using multi-level and cross-curricular
approaches to teaching and learning. The multilevel approach presupposes that students of varying
skills' level can pursue a common core in most subject areas. The curriculum would respond to the
variety of students because many students categorized as "slow-learners" may have no other disability
but the inability to read. The cross curricular approach would assist in strengthening language skills,
which are very weak, by incorporating reading, writing and oral expression into other core subjects. At
the same time, problem solving, interpretation of data and use of quantitative information would be
reinforced in the language component of the curriculum. Common concepts and/or areas of content are
consolidated so they are not taught in isolation. An integrated approach to the curriculum would result in
school learning more relevant to learners' needs. While this project would not finance pre-vocational
education, the MEC would begin to review the pre-vocational curriculum with respect to the
development of the common curriculum for the four core areas. Support for students' eventual transition
to the work place would be addressed by career education concepts integrated throughout the curriculum.
School guidance counselors would provide leadership in this aspect of the curriculum.
4.    Currently, all schools have similar core curriculum however implementation and instructional
practices differ significantly. The main difference in the GSS and the CHS/PT schools lies in the quality
of education with respect to teacher qualifications and resources available to students and teachers. The
GSS follows the CXC syllabi however test results are extremely low. Of those students taking the CXC
examination, only 12% and 13% received Grade I and II in English and Math respectively. This
compares with an average of 35 and 40% in other Caribbean countries. The CHS/PT schools have a less
academic approach to the curriculum, however students do not receive the necessary minimum basic and
pre-vocational skills needed required for further training /apprenticeships. CHS/PT student achievement
levels are very low with serious deficiencies, particularly in Language and Math.



- 56 -
5.     The academic core is composed of English/Language Arts, Mathematics, Science and Social
Studies. Differences between the GSS and CHS/PT include; (i) GSS require a foreign language; (ii)
English in GSS is divided in two classes - English and Literature and in the CHS/PT divided between
English and Reading and (iii) CHS/PT teach integrated science while the GSS Grade 9 teach separate
subjects, i.e. biology, chemistry. Differences in the pre-vocational curricula lie primarily in the time-
tabling and duration of classes .
6.     Language Arts: Students enter Grade 7 with varying levels of skills and competencies in
language. While students have some measure of proficiency in English enabling them to pass the SSEE,
the majority of youth are underachieving in the skills required for reading, writing and learning as they
move through lower secondary school. As a result, critical English language deficiencies exist at the end
of all secondary schools, particularly the CHS/PT. The new curriculum would be designed to integrate
the existing GSS and the CHS/PT English course structures with emphasis placed on content and
instructional approaches that would improve learning. Incorporating new trends in teaching English,
such as the whole language approach, would increase achievement levels. The key concept in the design
of the Language Arts curriculum would be not only the development of English language proficiency but
the providing opportunities for students to apply them in meaningful and realistic context in and out of
the school environment.
7.     Mathematics: Student performance in math is somewhat stronger than in English language.
Nevertheless, the math curriculum in both the GSS and CHS/PT for Grades 7-9 is ambiguous in terms of
content. The new math curriculum would adopt a more active approach to learning math concepts
through experimenting and constructing real-life problems solving scenarios. The variety, level and
sequencing of topics would be developed in close coordination with the primary school math and the
patterns of student achievement levels up through Grade 6. In addition, linkages would be developed
between math and other areas of study, including science, social studies and pre-vocational subjects.
8.     Science: The existing science curriculum is limited by a lack of appropriate space and equipment
and a very theoretical approach to content. The new curriculum would focus on hands-on, process-
oriented experiences emphasizing the use of science process skills to solve practical problems. Activities
are designed using a group approach so that students work cooperatively and all students can benefit
from the experiences.
9.     Social Studies: Changes in the social studies curriculum would include (i) more history and
geography instruction in regions beyond the Caribbean and (ii) development of more problem-solving
and critical thinking activities rather than the existing memorizing of information approach.
10    For each subject, Curriculum, Instructional Materials and Assessment Teams (CIMAT),
responsible for producing the new curricula, would be established in NCERD under the Assistant
Director of the Curriculum Development and Implementation Unit (CDIU). Each CIMAT would
produce guides for Grades 7-9 during the two year preparation and piloting cycle. Extensive school
technical support and supervision would be provided to the pilot schools. Guides would be produced in
the following sequence: (i) Language Arts and Mathematics and (ii) Social Studies and Science.
Developing the curriculum on a subject basis, rather than a grade level basis, allows for more integration
of the curriculum between grades.
11    The CIMAT would comprise of (i) a senior subject specialist (team leader) and subject
specialists from CDIU; (ii) seven practicing teachers, including a reading specialist, representing all



- 57 -
school types, and (iii) when needed, a methodology tutor from NCERD's Learning Resources Unit and
staff from the Test Development Unit. The CIMAT would: (i) finalize broad curriculum statements and
develop detailed curriculum based on the review of existing curriculum and instructional materials
available both domestically and internationally; (ii) develop and update a list of books and instructional
materials; (iii) if necessary, develop additional instructional materials where no existing materials were
considered to be appropriate; and (iv) assist the field supervision teams. Each CIMAT would be
expected to confer with curriculum specialists in the other core subjects, particularly the members of
other CIMATs as they are formed, in order to develop consistent cross-curricular elements. The project
would fund external curriculum and subject specialists who would (i) organize workshops on curriculum
design and development; (ii) visit Guyana approximately every two to three months to supervise
preparation of curriculum guides and (iii) provide assistance to supervision teams.. Professional
development opportunities, i.e. study tours, conferences for curriculum specialists would be financed by
the project in order to develop the capacity of NCERD.
12.    The final guides and instructional materials would be distributed to all schools, however only the
pilot schools would receive technical and supervisory support from the project. Other schools would
depend on principals and teachers to assist in the proper delivery of the new curriculum.
IN SER VICE TEA CHER TRAINING
13.    The effectiveness of the common curriculum, or any other curriculum, is clearly dependent upon
the teachers' knowledge of the subject matter and appropriate pedagogical skills. A large percentage of
the current teaching force of Guyana lacks appropriate training. The reasons for the low productivity in
the classroom appear to be related to (i) poor teacher subject knowledge; (ii) insufficient pedagogical
skills; (iii) lack of instructional materials; (iv) low salaries despite recent increases; and (v) absence of a
school team approach to teaching. Qualified teachers and administrators have either moved to the
private sector where salaries are better or left the country.
14.    Classroom observations in the CHS/PT schools indicate that teachers, irrespective of subject
matter or grade, have a very passive approach to teaching. Students were seated at their desks copying
passages, exercises or problems the teachers had written on the board. Teachers remained seated either
observing students or doing other work. Very little lecturing, explaining, demonstrating or discussing
the subject or circulating among students to check on student progress takes place. Group work, role
playing, experimentation, discussions or project work is not common. As a result, the time students
spent actually involved in learning appears to be significantly less than the actual class period. Review
of teachers' weekly Scheme Books reveal limited content coverage indicating that less than the formal
curriculum is being followed.
15.    Although curriculum development would take several years, teacher improvement programs
would be initiated as soon as possible. The project would contract the in-service teacher training to a
training institute acceptable to IDA, where, under the direction of the Project Director, a training
program would be developed in collaboration with other education institutions. External consultants
would assist in the development, preparation and implementation of in-service training programs and the
training of field supervisors. The technical assistance would also strengthen the training institute,
NCERD and supervision teams. The Project Director, in collaboration with the ACEO/Secondary, would
coordinate teacher training activities with other project components.
16     All pilot school head-teachers and teachers would participate in the in-service training activities
which would focus on subject content, use of learning resources, classroom and administrative



- 58 -
management and pedagogical skills. Other training instruments would include study tours, fellowships
and conferences to familiarize curriculum specialists with current education trends and philosophies.
The teachers would also participate in workshops on time management, administration and teams
leaderships along with principals and other administrators.
17.   In-service training would include: (i) a twelve (12) day summer residential workshop for
teachers; (ii) a 10-day summer residential program for head teachers and deputy head teachers; (iii)
monthly content and methodology workshops, servicing a cluster of pilot schools at a time, for teachers
throughout the academic year; (iv) school-based training activities convened by the supervision teams;
and (v) regular school and classroom supervision and technical support.
SUPERVISION TEAM
18    The success of any curriculum reform rests on the ability of each school to absorb change and
adopt new approaches to teaching and learning. However, this includes not only pedagogical skills but
also planning and management at school/teacher level. Along these lines, strong supervision and
technical support is key to developing and maintaining quality teaching and learning. At present, this
does not exist in Guyana. Teachers and schools receive very little technical support which contributes
further to very low productivity in the classroom given the high proportion of untrained teachers.
19    The project would finance three supervision teams to provide continuing curriculum support and
training to the pilot schools. Supervision methodologies and strategies would be designed and developed
collaboratively by supervision teams, NCERD, the Project Director, the ACEO/Secondary and the
training institute. Internationally recruited consultants (in teacher training, curriculum development,
subject specialists, and performance assessment) would assist in developing, and implementing training
programs in effective classroom observation and supervision techniques as well as monitoring
supervision teams in the field approximately every 3 to 4 months.
20     The project, under the management of the Project Director, would finance three supervision
teams per subject, comprised of a teaching training specialist (team leader), subject specialists (Reading
and Language Arts, Mathematics, Science, and Social Studies), a DEO or DES from the district of the
pilot school, and periodically, a member of the Inspectorate. Supervision would include hands-on
assistance to teachers and administrators in classroom observation, motivation and discipline techniques,
new curriculum emphases, use of appropriate materials, student assessment methodologies, development
of student feedback mechanisms, record keeping, collaborative teaching methods etc. Supervision teams
would: (i) visit schools every six weeks for 2 days (totaling 32 days per pilot school per year); (ii)
prepare 2 supervision reports each semester for the review of the Project Director, ACEO/Secondary and
REdOs; (iii) collaborate with other supervision teams and the CDIU to identify training needs and
prepare training materials.
21.    Student learning outcomes woud be measured through continuous assessment techniques.
Initially monitoring indicators would include results from a set of diagnostic tests and supplemented by
other baseline information included in School Improvement Plans. Those indicators would be veryfied
by the supervision teams. In addition, the TDU would: (i) develop diagnostic tests; (ii) collaborate with
supervision teams in assisting pilot school teachers in continuous assessment; and (iii) develop a Form
III assessment test. The project secretariat would assume overall responsibility for monitoring these
activities.



- 59 -
GUYANA
SECONDARY SCHOOL REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX VII: MONITORING AND EVALUATION
1.    Monitoring and evaluation mechanisms are needed to ensure effective use of project inputs in
developing revitalized, more efficient pilot schools and to provide continuous feedback for the schools,
concerned government agencies and IDA. These mechanisms would assess changes in the quality of
educational processes and environments and the resulting changes in student performance.
2.    Evaluation of the project would be done periodically as part of the semi-annual reporting to IDA
by the Project Secretariat. The project would also have a mid-term review conducted by the Project
Secretariat after three years and six months. This review would be an input into IDA's Mid-Term
Review. Preparatory work and documentation, which would include the design of the review, would be
contracted out to an independent organization acceptable to IDA. The review would evaluate the
performance of the pilot schools, of project management and of the curriculum, training, textbook, civil
works, public awareness and institutional strengthening activities of the project. Independent input into
the Mid-Term Review would be essential in order to assess Guyana's capacity to implement and sustain
an effective country-wide secondary school reform program, design subsequent phases of the reform
program and provide a rationale for or against continued IDA assistance. Additional monitoring of the
project would be conducted by IDA supervision missions. Report due dates and a tentative schedule of
IDA supervision missions are presented in Table 3.
3.    Evaluation of pilot school performance would make use of baseline information developed by
the specialist in school-based management, who would be working with individual schools in developing
their SIPs. This information would be in the form of an analytical report presenting quantitative and
qualitative information about the pilot schools as of the beginning of the project. Evaluation of pilot
school performance would be based on assessment of changes in classroom, school and community
indicators in the pilot schools) by the project's pilot-school supervision teams, which would visit pilot
schools approximately every six weeks to monitor progress at the school level (see below). Student
performance, based on a set of desired learning outcomes developed in the ongoing UNICEF-funded
Minimum Levels of Attainment project, would be assessed through continuous assessment mechanisms
built into the curriculum and the teacher training components of the project. Supervision team reports
would be submitted to the Project Director, the ACEO Secondary and the school's REdO.
Classroom. School And Community Performance Indicators
Classroom (Table 1 and Table 2)
Introduction of new teaching practices.
Introduction of continuous assessment for measuring student achievement.
Links between continuous assessment and instruction
Improvement in language development, numeracy and reading as measured against Minimum
Levels of Attainment.
Motivation of students.
Promotion to upper secondary grades.
Establishment and maintenance of records for monitoring student achievement.
Reduction in drop-out rates for Grades 7,8,9.
Improved staying-on rates after Grade 9.



- 60 -
Table 1: Input/Process Indicators - In-Service Teacher Training
1996                   1997                   1998                    1999
Contract for 1996 U.G    Contract for 1997 -   Annual Training Plan   Comprehensive
2001                   for 300 teachers       Training Programme
Annual Training Plan                           Trained in Curriculum
100 Teachers Trained   Annual Training Plan   Content                 400 Teachers and
Curriculum Content     200 Teachers trained                           Heads of Department
in Curriculum Content   Effective             Trained
12 Principals Trained in                      implementation of SIP
Management SIP         Minimum of 32 days                             Reading levels of
Reports                per year schoolbased in                        students improved.
methodology
12 Deputy Heads
Trained                Minimum of 10 days
residential training for
core subjects -teachers
of pilot schools
Table 2: Input/Process Indicators - Improvement of Student Assessment
1996                   1997                   1998                   1999
- Finalize lists of    Pre-test and parallel  Draft form Three test    Form 3 Test
students indicators   tests in Language Arts -  ready for piloting
Reading and                                   Continuous assessment
- identification of    Mathematics            Final Drafts of Pre and   procedures for Science
continuous assessment                         Post test in Reading -    and Social Studies
procedures             Students research      Language Arts -
Continuous assessment  Mathematics            Pre and Post test for
Draft lists of Students   test scores                                Social Studies and
indicators                                    Teachers trained in test  Science.
Teachers trained in    construction
Modified Jamaican      continuous Assessment                         Teachers trained in
Reading Test           -Reading etc                                  assessment of Social
Studies and Science.
School
Documentation and implementation of SIP.
Staff development linked to SIP.
Improved staff and student attendance rates.
Quality of budget submissions to REdO.
Use of school-controlled funds
Maintenance of infrastructure.
School security indicators.
Community
Formation of SIAC.
Involvement of parents and community in preparation of SIP.
Community involvement in implementation of SIP.



- 61 -
Improved support from parents and school community.
Employment and employability of school leavers.
Table 3: Report Due Dates and Tentative Plan for IDA Supervision Missions
Tentative Dates
of IDA
Document       Supervision
Year   Due Dates         Mission                                                    Notes
I va                 AUgUSI           P'iRet Launcn VVorKsnop I M,  m-ocurmen Aevisor, ulsDursemen! uTTicer/Analyst, ArcnIec., i-kiance
Specialist, Education Reform Specialist, Evaluation Specialist)
September 30                     Semi Annual Progress Report Due
October 31                   Implementation Plan for the Following Year Due
November         Supervision Mission (TM, Country Economist/Education Finance Specialist, Architect, Education Reform
Specialist)
1997       March 31                   Semi Annual Progress Report Due
May              Supervision Mission (TM, Teacher Training Specialist, Curriculunr'Teacher Training Specialist)
September 30                     Semi Annual Progress Report Due
October 31                   Implementation Plan for the Following Year Due
November         Supervision Mission (TM, Country Economist/Education Finance Specialist, Architect, Education Reform
Specialist)
1SS8       March 31                   Semi Annual Progress Report Due
May              Supervision Mission (TM, Teacher Training Specialist, Curriculum/Teacher Training Specialist)
Septem ber 30                    Semi Annual Progress Report Due
October 31                   Implementation Plan for the Following Year Due
November         Supervision Mission (TM, Country EconomistEducation Finance Specialist, Architect, Education Reform
Specialist)
1SSS       March 31                   Semi Annual Progress Report Due
May              Supervision Mission (TM, Teacher Training Specialist, CurriculumtTeacher Training Specialist)
Septem ber 30                    Mld-TermlSeml-Annual Report from the Project Secretariat
October 31                   Implementation Plan for the Following Year Due
November         Mid-Term Evaluation (OED Evaluator, Archiect, Education Finance Specilist, Curriculum Specialst, Teacher
Traiing Specialist, Management Specialist, Country Officer/Economist, TM)
ZuOO       March 31                   Seml Annual Progress Report Due
May              Supervision Mission (TM, Teacher Training Specialist. Curriculum/Teacher Training Specialist)
Septem ber 30                    Semi Annual Progress Report Due
October 31                   Implementation Plan for the Following Year Due
November         Supervision Mission (TM, Country EconomistUEducation Finance Specialist, Architect, Education Reform
Specialist)
7001       March 31                   Semi Annual Progress Report Due
May              Supervision Mission (TM, Teacher Training Specialist, Curriculum/Teacher Training Specialist)
September 30                     Semi Annual Progress Report Due
October 31                   Implementatlion Plan for the Following Year Due
November         Supervision Mission (TM, Country Economist/Education Finance Specialist, Architect, Education Reform
Specialist)
2002       March 31                   Semi Annual Progress Report Due
May              Supervision Mission (TM, Teacher Training Specialist, CurriculumtTeacher Training Specialist)
Septem ber 30                    Semi Annual Progress Report Due
October 31                   ImplementatIon Plan for the Following Year Due
November         Supervision Mission (TM, Country Economist/Education Finance Specialist, Architect, Education Reform
Specialist)
2003       March 31                   semi Annual Progress Report Due
May              Supervision Mission (TM, Teacher Training Specialist, Curriculum/Teacher Training Specialist)  -
Septem ber 30                    Semi Annual Progress Report Due
Dacem ber 31                    Implementation Completion Report Due



I
i



- 63 -
GUYANA
SECONDARY SCHOOL REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX VIII: PLANNED CONSULTANTS' SERVICES
Number
Suggested                                              of      Estimated
Type of   Type of Cost to              Recruitment Contract Total Staff     Cost to
Position I Type of Work          Contract la   the Project   Financed by    Pool lb       s       Weeks    Project (USS)
School M anagem ent Support
Participatoryibchool-based Management
Specialist                                     ST-I     Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  International        t         72       180,000
Total School M anagem ant Support                                                                       1         72       180,000
Curriculum Devalopm ant and Im plem *ntation, Teacher Training, Field Support
- Learning Kesources otticer ic            NIA - Ou;  Proj. Allow ance tUI (I UU%) NCtLU/Mtt;         1  15b               W,b/
-Assist Director, CDIU \c                  N/A - GOG   Proj. Allow ance GOG (100%) NCERD/MEC          1        260          4,345
-Chief Test Deveiopment Officer Xc         N/A - GOG   Proj Allow ance GOG (100%) NCERD/MEC           1        156          2,607
-Senior subject specialists lc             N/A - GOG   Proj. Allow ance GOG (100%) NCERD/MEC          3        780         26,303
-Subject specialists \c                    N/A - GOG   Proj. Allow ance GOG (100%) NCERD/MEC          4        832         17,686
-Test development officer lc               N/A - GOG   Proj. Allow ance GOG (100%) NCERD/MEC          1        156          4,486
-Methodology tutor \c                      N/A - GOG   Proj. Allow ance GOG (100%) NCERD/MEC          1        156          2,653
Teachers (for w riting curricula)               PT-I     Honoraria     IDA (100%)  Teachers           28       2,912        32,455
Textbook Specialist                            ST-I      Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  nternational        1         28        70,000
Curriculum Specialist                          ST-I     Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  International        1         24        60,000
Subject Specialists                            ST-I     Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  International       4          96       240,000
Test/Assessment Specialist                     ST-I     Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  International        1         32        80,000
University of Guyana (Teacher Training)        LT-F     Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  Local                I         10       200,000
Teacher Training Specialist                    ST-I     Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  International       2          64       160,000
Field supervision team members                  LT-1    Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  Local               7       1,820       107,386
TOtal NGeRK                                                                                           67       7,482      1,010,525
Project Se cr tarlat td
Project Director                                L r-r   1onsultant F-ee IUA (0IU% )  Local             1         2bu      IzJ,Uu
Administrator                                   LT-1    Consuhtant Fee IDA (100%)  Local                1        260       104,000
Finance/Procurement Coordinator                LT-1    Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  Local                1         260       104,000
Civil Works Coordinator                         LT-1    Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  Local               1         260       104,000
TotaI Froject secretarIat                                                                              4       1,O40       435,50u
M EC Operations Support
Schools information Otticer la                 Li-1    tonsultant Fee IUA (61% )   Local               1         26b0      130,DD
Education Finance Specialist                   LT-1    Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  International        1         104       260,000
Total m et. operattona Support                                                                         2         354       30s,00s
Institutional Strengthening and Project M anagem ent
Management Strengthening                         l-ii`    Consultant i-ee WJA (lUU%)  international   1          27       b8,bUU
SIS Design                                     ST-F     Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  International       1          16        40,000
School Mapping/Physical Facility Survey        ST-F/I    Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  International      1           4        10,000
School Mapping/Physical Facility Survey       ST-F/I    Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  Local               1          16         8,000
Engineering Design Firm                        ST-F     Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  Local               1          18        27,000
Public Aw areness Campaign                     LT-F     Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  International       1                   150,000
Project Monitoring and Evaluation              ST-F/I    Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  International      1          20        50,000
Preparation of Phase Il Support - 1            ST-I     Consultant Fee IDA (100%)  International       1          13        32,500
Preparation of Phase II Support - 2            ST-I     Consultent Fee IDA (100%)  Local               1          13         6,500
External Auditor                               ST-F     Cons ultant Fee IDA (100%)  International      1          15        37,500
Total Institutlonal utrangtnening and rroject Managament                                              1U         142       42 IT,000
TOTAL                                                                                                 74       9,100     2,445,028
la ST-I (Short Term Individual); LT-I (Long Term Individual; ST-F (Short Term Firm); LT-F (Long Term Firm); NA-GOG (Not Applicable; GOG Staff)
PT-I (Part-Time Individual). Firm includes non-profit or public organizations and academic institutions
Xb "International" includes Guyanese nationals w ith qualtflcations that meet applicable international standards.
\c Special Project Allow ance w ould be paid from GOG counterpart funds during their assignment to the Project.
Xd In addition, Project Secretariat w ould employ 2 local support staff.
Xe Supported by IDA on a declning basis.



I



- 65 -
GUYANA
SECONDARY SCHOOL REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX IX: DRAFr TERMS OF REFERENCE OF PROCUREMENT SERVICES FOR THE MINISTRY OF
EDUCATION AND CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
A.    BACKGROUND
1.    The Government of Guyana (GOG) has requested the International Development Association
(IDA) to provide a credit equivalent to US$17.3 million in order to finance the proposed Secondary
School Reform Project (SSRP, or the Project). The Project would be implemented by the Ministry of
Education and Cultural Development (MEC), and would have three major components: (i) Educational
Program Quality, (ii) School Environment; (iii) National and Regional Institutional Strengthening.
2.    The Educational Program Ouality component would: (a) introduce curriculum unification for the
first three years of secondary education; (b) improve the quality and availability of relevant textbooks
and instructional materials; (c) enhance knowledge and skills of secondary school teachers; (d) promote
school-based initiatives and community participation; (e) assist the preparation of a School Improvement
Plan (SIP); and (f) provide direct financial assistance in a small amount to individual schools, based on
the evaluation of SIPs on competitive bases.
3.    The School Environment component would carry out comprehensive rehabilitation of 12 pilot
schools and emergency repair of other secondary schools.
4.    The National and Regional Institutional Strengthening would: (a) assist the MEC in further
developing and adopting the SSRP; (b) strengthen the managerial capacities of sector institutions through
training activities, i.e., seminars, work-shops, on-the-job training, and the provision of domestic and
international scholarships; (c) fill the capacity gaps through technical assistance and consulting services;
(d) provide relevant goods, facilities and equipment.
B.    SCOPE OF WORK
5.    For procurement of goods as well as works and related incidental services, the consultant will: (i)
prepare bidding documentation, including technical specifications, bid evaluation criteria, qualifying
requirements, contract conditions related to security, warranties, liquidated damages, payment terms,
preparation of purchase orders etc.; (ii) based on procedural requirements of the GOG and financiers,
notify/advertise procedures, identify potential suppliers, and prepare short lists of potential contractors;
and (iii) assist the MEC in the receipt, opening and evaluation of bids, carry out post qualification of
bidders, and prepare bid evaluation reports to be submitted to the relevant Government authorities and
financiers for concurrence.
6.    For the selection of and contracting with consultants, the consultant will: (i) prepare terms of
reference, proposed short lists, letters of invitation for proposals, questionnaires, draft contracts etc.; (ii)
based on procedural requirements of the GOG and financiers, notify/advertise procedures, identify



- 66 -
candidates, and prepare short lists of potential contractors; (ii) assist the MEC in the receipt and
evaluation proposals, prepare evaluation reports, and negotiate with selected firms/consultants.
7.     For monitoring and administration of contract performance, the consultant will: (i) set up
efficient payment procedures, (ii) resolve claims and disputes; (iii) evaluate suppliers' performance; (iv)
enforce liquidated damages and remedies for non-performance.
8.     The consultant should be an experienced professional, preferable with a technical background
and with extensive experience in all facets of large and complex international procurement, consultant
evaluation and selection and contract administration in multilaterally funded operations. The consultant
should also have a good knowledge of banking procedures linked to trade financing and of shipment and
insurance practices. Experience in training would be desirable. The consultant should have excellent
command of English. Access to an overseas home office to provide specific expert advise, if required,
would also be desirable. To ensure the impartiality of his/her advise, the consultant (including his or her
home office, if any) must not in any way be affiliated with business entities that are currently providing,
or are seeking to provide, other goods or services to Guyana.
C.     TIMING AND EXPECTED TA OUTCOMES.
9.     Procurement activities are already in progress in the MEC, and the consultancy is therefore
required immediately.



- 67 -
GUYANA
SECONDARY SCHOOL REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX X: PROJECT COSTS AND EXPENDITURES
Table 1: Components Cost Summary
Guyana
Secondary School Reform Project                                                                                     %       % Total
Components Project Cost Summary                         (GS Million)                    (USS M llion)            Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange   Costs
A. Educatlon Program  Quality                     92       264        356        0.54       1.55       2.49         74         13
B. School Environm ent
Pllot Schools                                418       321         738       2.92       2.24       5.16         43         32
Emergency School Repalr                      490        369        859       3.42       2.58       6.01         43         37
SubtotalSchoolEnvironment                       907        690       1,597       6.35       4.82      11.17         43         68
C. National and Regional Institutional Strengthening
hlstlutbonalStrengthenhig                     29        161        190       0.20       1.13       1.33         85          8
Project Management                            75         35        111       0.53       0.25       0.77         32          5
Subtotal National and Regional Inatitutio       104        196        300        0.73       1.37       2.10         65         13
D. PPF Refinancing                               -          79         79         -         0.55       0.55       100           3
TOtal 1AUELINIetOUT5                              1,104      1,229      2,333       r./Z       8.59      15.31         53        100
Physical Conthigencles                        44         41         85       0.31       0.29       0.60         49          4
Price Contingencies                          254         82       337        1.78       0.58       2.35         24         14
Tot PRKOJCT GOSTO                                 1,40z      1,353      2,755       9.A0       9.46      19.26         49        118
Table 2: Components by Financiers
Giuyana
Secondary School Reform Project                                                           (GS Mllion)
Components by Financea r                                                     International
Government of   Development                                Local
Guyana        Association         Total                (Excl.  Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    or. Exch Taxes)  Taxes
A. coucallon rrogram wUUUSy                                aWa     lJ.0    /1U.t    OO.d   43U.      I 5.b   bot.    3lJ.b
BE School Environm ant
Fibt Schools                                           107.7    10.5   922.3    89.5  1,030.0    37.4   386.8   643.2
Emergency School Repar                                  98.8    11.5   759.9    88.5   858.8    31.2   369.0   489.8
Subtotal School Environment                               206.5    10.9  1,682.3    89.1  1,888.8    68.6   75j.8  1,133.0
C. National and Regional Institutional Strengthening
hsttutionaiStrengthenuig                                 9.5     4.5   202.2    95.5   211.7       7.7   180.7    310
Project Ahnagement                                       0.0     -      145.1   100.0   145.1      5.3    391    106.1
Subtotal National and Regional Institutional Strongthening  9.5     2.7   347.3    97.3   356.8    13.0   219.7   137.0
D. PPF Refinancing                                         -        -      78.7   100.0    78.7       2.9    78.7      -
I 0151 .AeDUrMOm lni                                           0.0    lU.U  X,4tY.U    YU.U  e,/D4.b)  1UU.U  1,303.U  1,4U1.b    -
Guyana
Secondary School Reform Project                                                          (USS Mlillion)
Components by Flnanciers                                                     Intornational
Government of   Development                                Local
Guyana        Association         Total         For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amount   S    Amount   %    Amount    %             Exch.  Taxes)  Taxes
A. eoucalon rrogram  UaUIIIy                               U.4A    13.0    W.Ou     o.z   3J.U1      10.b    Z.UY     U.wz
EL School Environmant
Pilot Schools                                           0.75    10.5    6.45    89.5    7.20    37.4    2.70    4 50        -
Em,ergency School Repac                                 0.69    1 `1.5    5.31    88.5    6.01    31.2    2.58    3.42
Subtotal School Environmant                                144     10.9   11.76     89.1   13.21     68.6    5.29     7.92
C. National and Reglonal Instltutonal Strengthening
histtutlonal Strngthening                               0.07     4.5    1.41     95.5    1.48      7.7    1.26     0.22
ProjectManagement                                       0.00     -       1.01    100.0    1.01     5.3    0.27     0.74
Subtotal Natlonal and Regional inatItutonal Strengthening  0.07     2.7    2.43    97.3    2.49      13.0    1.54    0.96
D. PPF Refinancing                                         -        -      0.55    100.0    0.55      2.9    0 55      -
10ImglLlrJUrFmenl                                        ---TwJ       WU.U    lt.J4   WM    I lY.Zo   lUU.U    Y.4b    V.ou



- 68 -
Table 3: Disbursements by Semesters and Government Cash Flow
(US5 Mililon)                                              (GS Ml1llon
Financing Available                                         Financing Available   Costs to
International    Costs to be                                Inernational         be
Development        Financed    Government of Guyana         Development       Financed    Government of Guyana
IDA Fiscal Year        Association        Project                  Cumulative      Association       ProJect        Cash      Cumu at ve
Semester Ending      Amount            Costs      Cash Flow    Cash Flow         Amount           Costs         Flow       Cash Flow
r-Y97
Dec. 31, 96               0.81         0.86         (0.04)       (0.04)             116.2         122.9         (5.4)         (5.4)
Jun. 30, '97              0.81         0.86         (0.08)       (0.12)             116.2        122.9         (11.2)        (16.6)
FY98
Dec. 31, '97              1.94         2.10         (0.08)       (0. 19)            277.4         300.8        (11.2)        (27.7)
Jun. 30, '98              1.94         2.10         (0.13)       (032)              277.4        300.8         (18.3)        (46.0)
FY99
Dec. 31, '98              2.01         2.18         (0.13)       (0.45)             287.4         312.2        (18.3)        (64.4)
Jun. 30, '99              2.01         2.18         (0.16)       (0.61)             287.4        312.2         (22.9)        (87.2)
FY00
Dec. 31, '99              1.85         2.04         (0.16)       (0.77)             264.1         292.1        (22.9)       (110.1)
Jun. 30, 00               1.85         2.04         (0.18)       (0.95)             264.1        292.1         (25.7)       (135.9)
FY01
Dec. 31, '00              1.10          1.25        (0.18)       (1.13)             156.6         179.0        (25.7)       (161.6)
Jun. 30, 01               1.10         1.25        (0.17)        (1.30)             156 6        179.0         (24.7)      (186.3)
FY02
Dec. 31, '01              0.56         0.69         (017)         (1.48)             80.0          98.0        (24.7)       (211.1)
Jun. 30, '02              0.56         0.69        (0 16)        (1.63)              80 0         98.0         (22.2)       (233.3)
FY03
Dec. 31, '02              0.40         0.51         (0.16)        (1.79)             57.8          72.2        (22.2)       (255.5)
Jun. 30, '03              0.40         0.51        (0.14)        (1.93)              57.8         72.2         (20.4)      (276.0)
Iotal                           1.34          19.26        (1.93)        (1.93)           2,479 0      2,754.5        (276.0)      (Z/b.U)
Table 4: Project Components by Year - Total Including Contingencies
Guyana
Secondary School Reform Project
Project Com ponents by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies                    Totals Including Contingencies (GS Mlllion)
IDA Fiscal Year   1997      1998     1999      2000     2001      2002     2003      Total
A. Education Program  Quality                                  24.5      96.2    101.1      94.3     57.0      33.0     24.2    430.3
B. School Envlronm ent
Pilot Schools                                               51.5    228.3    243.3    232.3    139.4        78.4     56.9  1,030.0
Emergency School Repair                                     49.9    207.7    207.7    187.5    107.1        58.3     40.5    858.8
Subtotal School Environment                                   101.4    436.1    451.0    419.8    246.5    136.7        97.3  1,888.8
C. National and Regional Institutlonal Strengthening
b,stitutionalStrengthening                                  13.6     47.5      48.9     45.0      27.5      16.5     12.5    211.7
Project Management                                          27.5     21.9      23.3     25.1      27.0       9.8     10.5    145.1
Subtotal National and Regional Institutlonal Strengtheni    41.2        69.3      72.2      70.1     54.5      26.3     23.0    356.8
D. PPF Refinancing                                             78.7                -        -         -         -        -        78.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                             245.8    601.6    624.4    584.3    3b8.0   119b.         144.5  2,754.6
Guyana
Secondary School Reform Project
ProJe ct C om porntents b y Ye ar *- Totals In clu dIn g C o ntin ge n cle s     TotalIs In clu dIn g Co ntingae*n cles (US$ M Ililon )
IDA Fiscal Year   1997      1998     1999      2000     2001      2002     2003    Total
A. Educetion Program t   uality                                0.10      0.63     0.34      0.32     0.41      0.23     0.10      1.48
B. School Environm * nt
Pllot Schools                                               0.36     1.60      1.70     1.62      0.97     0.55      0.40      7.20
Emergency School Repair                                     0.35     1,45      1.45     1.31      0.75     0.41      0.28      6.01
Subtotal School Environment                                    0.71     3.05      3.15      2.94     1.72      0.96     0.68    13.21
C. National end Regional Institutional Strengthening
Instftutional Strengthening                                 0.10     0.33      0.34     0.32      0.19     0.12      o,og      1.48
Project Management                                          0.19     0.15      0.16     0.18      0.19      0.07     0.07      1.01
Subtotal National and Regional Institutional Strengthenl    0.29        0.48      0.51      0.49     0.38      0.18     0.16      2.49
D. PPF Refinancing                                             0.55                -        -         -         -        -        0.55
TOtle PROJ  T CUZI                                               1.72     4.21      4.37     4.U9      2.50      1.37      11.1    19.Zb



- 69 -
Table 5: Expenditure Accounts by Components - Total Including Contingencies (US$ million)
Guyana
Secondary School Reform Project                                                                                      Notlonel and Regional
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totas tncluding Contingencies                        School Environment             Institutional
(USS Milbon)                                                               Education                 emrgency           Strengthening
Program        Pilot        School    nsu lulloneal    roje cc        PPF
Gusltty     Schools        Repair   trngthenin Management Refinancing             Total
I. nivestment Costa2
A. Educational Program improvement and institutional Strengthening
1. School Inform stion System
SE Design and npiemntation Supervisbn 0n05                                                                                                                 005
SE Equpmennt knstallatbn, Support and Training                                                                    0.44                                     0 44
Subtotal School Inform atlon System                                                                                 050                                      0 50
2. Goods
Office Technology Equprment (except under SB) /a                         0 03                                     0 02          0.04          0 03         0 12
Vehicles                                                                 0 e                                       -             -            -            050
Furnkure                                                                 0.00                                     0.00          0.00                       0.00
Subtotal Goods                                                             0.09                                     0.02          0.04          0 03         0.10
3. Services
SeniDr Level Cons utant                                                  0.72                                     0.70          0 12                       1.54
Mtddle Level Consnutant                                                  0.44                                     0.05          0.9           0.47         1.66
Subtotal Sorvices                                                           1.16                                    0.75          0 82          0.47         3. 20
Cubtotal Educational Program  Im pronem ent and Institutlonal Strengt        1.2            -                         1.27          0 ao          0.50         3.86
B Pilot Schools: Physical Plent and Goods
1. Physical Plant Improvement
Cbv Works                                                                              5 70                                                                5 70
Enghneerhng Oesign. Monagenent and Supervision                                         1.09                                                                  0 10
Subtotal Physlcal Plant tmpronement                                         -            6 79                                                                6 79
2. Goods /b
Books. Other instruclinal Materlels and Equipment Ic                     1.04                                                                              1.04
Furnlure                                                                               0.23                                                                0.23
Subtotal Goods                                                             1.04          0.23                                                                1.27
Subtotal Pilot Schools: Physical Plant and Goods                              1.04         7.02                                                                8.06
C. Emergency School Repair
CiVS Works                                                                  -                         4.07                                                   4 97
Engkneering Design, Management nd SupervbIon                                                          0.54                                                   0.84
Subtotal Emorgency School Repair                                                                        S. I                                                   5.681
0 Seminars. Workshops snd Training Id                                        045                         -             -            0.00         0.05          0 60
Total Invstment Costs                                                          2.74          7 02         5.81          1.27          0.66         0.00         18.25
1. Recurrent coats
A. Incremental Recurrent Expenditures
1. Pilot Schools
SP Support Funds                                                         015                                                                               015
Buoling and Furnlure Maintenance                                                       0.16                                                                0.16
Replacement of Books and Instructional Meterials                         0.06                                                                              o 0.06
Subtotal Pilot Schoole                                                     0.20          0.16          .             .            .             .            0.36
2. Aflercare of Emergency School Repair                                                                0.19                                                  0.19
3. Administrative end Miscellaneous Expenditures
Mainlenance end Operatbn                                                 0.06          0 02                       0 05                                     0 13
MEC Supplemental Staff/n                                                                                          0.16                                     0.16
SubtotaiAdministrrtive and Mlsceilaneous Expenditures                      0.06          0.02                       0.21                                     0.30
Subtotel Incremental Recurrent Expenditures                                  0.26          0 l          0.19         0.21           .                         0 65
B. Project Secretariat
Maintenance and Operation                                                  0.01                                                   0 .  0.01                  0.01
Suppies, Conwmuncatlons, Transportalon                                                                                            0.15                       0.15
Subtotal Project Secretariat                                                 0 01                                                   0.15                       0.16
Total Recurrent Costs                                                          0.27          016          0.16          0.21          0.15                       1.01
tOtal PRUJ ICO CUTa                                                              T U1          r zu         e1u1 U-                            U-55               1 215r
Taxes
Foreign EKchange|                                                            2.09 |        2.70 j       2.68          1.20          0.27         0.55          9.46
1a Except Office Technology Equipment procured under the School lnformrtion Syslem pscksge
lb Except Office Technology Equlpment procured under the School kiformetln System package
/c Textbooks, lbrary books, and other instructional moterleis and equipment
/d Workshops, Sefinars. etc.
le School information Officer



- 70 -
Table 6: Expenditure Accounts by Components - Total Including Contingencies (G$ million)
Guyana
Secondary School Reform Project                                                                                        National and Rgional
Expenditure Accounts by Com ponents - Totals Including Contingencies                        School Ennlronmenl              Inslltullonal
(G$ Mkion)                                                                  Educatlon                 Iergency             Strengthening
Program        Piloa         School    Institutional   Pro ecC          PPF
nQuality     Schools        Repair    trangthenin Management Refinancing            Total
I. Invatm entustsaf
A. Educational Program Improvement and snattutionai Slrenglhening
1. School InformatIon System
SS Design and npimenlation Supervisin 7ie                                                                                                                       7.0
SS Equipment, hnstaftin, Support and Training                                                                        63.3                                      633
Sublotal School Information System                                                                                     70.9                                      70.9
2. Goods
Office Technooigy Equpment (excepi under SS) Ia                             4.8                                       2.8           5.3           4.3          17.3
Vehicles                                                                    6.3                                       -                           -             8.3
Furnsure                                                                    0.2                                       0.1           0.2                         0 .5
Subtotal Goods                                                               13.3                                       3 0           5.5           4.3          26.1
3. Services
Senior Level Consultant                                                   102. 6                                     99.7          17.7           -           220.1
Middle Level Consuftant                                                    83.8                                       7 5          99.1          87.3        237.5
Subtotal Servicsa                                                           I6 .2                                     107.2         1 18.8         87.3         457.8
Subtotal Educatlonal Program  Improvement and institutlonal Strengt           179.5                  -                  181.1         122.4          71.8         554.5
B Pllot Schools: Physical Plant and Goods
1. Physical Plant improvement
Civi Works                                                                  -           815.8                                                                 815.8
Engineering Design, Managemni end Supervision                                           155.                                                                   155.8
Subtotal Phyalcal Plant Improvement                                           -           971.2                                                                 971.2
2. Goods lb
Books. Other Instructional Malerils and Equipment Ic                      148.3                                       -                                       148.3
Furnfture                                                                                32.7                                                                  32.7
Subtoltl Goods                                                              148 3          32.7                                                                 181.0
Subtotal Pilot School: Phyalcsl Plant and Goods                               148.3      1t003.9                                                                1 ,152.2
C. Emergency School Repair
Clvil Works                                                                   -             -           710.2                                                   710.2
Engineering Design, Manugoment and Supervisin                                                           1 20.7                                                  1 t 20.7
subtotal Em ergency School Repalr                                               -                         831.0                                                   831.0
D Seminars, Workshops and Training Id                                          64.1                         -            -              0.7           7.2          72.0
Total Investment Cosls                                                          392.0       1,003.9         831.0         1e1 1         123.1          78.7       2,609.7
I .Recurrent CosTs
A. hncremenlal Recurrent Expenditures
t. Pilot Schools
SF Support Funds                                                           21.1                                                                               21.1
Building and Furnture Maintenance                                           -            23.0                                                                 23.0
Replacoment of Books and Instructional Materiab                             7.9                                                                                7.9
Subtotal Pilot Schoole                                                       29.0          23.0          -                                                      52.0
2. Aftercare of Emergency School Repair                                       -             -            27.8           -                                       27.8
3. Admlnistrative and MIscotiansous Expenditures
Maintenance and Operatlin                                                   8.5           3.1          -              7.2                                     1 8.8
MEC Suppiemental Staff 1e                                                                 -                         23.4                                      23.4
SubottalAdmnslatrative and M scala neous Expenditures                         8.5           3.1           -            30.6                                      42.2
Subtotal incrementalRecurrent Expenditures                                     37.5          28.1          27.8          30.8                                     122.0
B. Project Secretariat
Maintenance and Operation                                                     0.8 9                      .             .             0.8                          1.7
Supples, Communicationr, Transportation                                       .                                                     21.3                         21.3
Subtotal Project Secretariat                                                    0.9                         .                          22.0                        22.9
Total Recurrent Costs                                                            38 4          281t          27.8          30.8          22.0                      144.9
rOtCt PKUJEC I U0 3                                                               43u I3I -USUu2                                         14511 3S.( 7               Z'Tr  Tf
Taxes                                                                                                       -             -            -             -             -  
Forelgn Exchange                                                              2918.7        38I .8        369.0         180.7          39.1         78 .7      11353.0
\s Except Offico Technology Equipment procured under the School informtion Sysnem package
1b Except Office Technology Equipment procured under the School kiformtion Syofem package
\c Textbooks hibrary books, and other instructional mtelerlab and equipment
d Workshop., Seminars, etc.
\e School information Offter



- 71 -
Table 7: Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
Guyana
Secondary School Reform Project                                                                                                    %     % Total
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary                                       (GS Million)               (USS Mllion)         Foreign   Base
Local  Forelgn   Total   Local  Foreign   Total  xchang   Costs
t. investment Coats
A. Educatlonal Program Improvement and Institutional Strengthening
1. School Information System
SIS Design and Implementation Supervision                           -        6.9       6.9      -       0.05     0.05      100       -
SIS Equipment, kistallation, Support and Training                   -       54.4      54.4      -       0 38     0.38      100         2
Subtotal School Information System                                    -        61.3    61 3       -       0 43     0.43      100         3
2. Goods
Office Technology Equipment (except under S1S)/a                    -        15.8     158       -       011      0.11      100         1
Vehicles                                                            -        7.2       7.2      -       0.05     0.05      100
Furniture                                                           0 2      0.2       0 4     0.00     0.00     0.00       50
Subtotal Goods                                                         0 2     23.1     23 3     0.00     0.16      0.16      99         1
3. Services
Senior Level Consultant                                             -       198.6    198.6      -       1.39     1.39      100         9
Middle Level Consultant                                           120 5     67.3    187 8      0.84     0.47     1.31       36        8
Subtotal Services                                                   120 5    265 9    386.4      0.84     1 86     2.70       69        17
Subtotal Educational Program Improvement and Institutional Strengt   1207    3503    471.0         0.84     2.45      3.29       74       20
B. Pilot Schools: Physical Plant and Goods
1. Physical Plant Improvement
Civil Works                                                       293.9    293.9    587.7      2.05     2.05     4.11       50       25
Engineering Design, Management and Supervision                     99.9      -        99 9     0 70      -       0.70      -           4
Subtotal Physical Plant Improvement                                 393.8    2939    687.6       2.75     2.05     4.81       43        29
2. Goods /b
Books, Other Instructional Materials and Equipment Ic               6.3    119 6    125 9      0 04     0 84     0.88       95         5
Furniture                                                          12.3      12.3     24 7     0.09     0 09     0.17       50         1
Subtotal Goods                                                        18.6    131.9    150 5     0.13     0 92      1.05      88         6
Subtotal Pilot Schools: Physical Plant and Goods                       412.4   425.8    8381       2.88     2.98      5.86       51       38
C. Emergency School Repair
Civil Works                                                         355 1    355.1    710 2      2.48     2 48     4.97       50        30
Engineering Design, Management and Supervision                      120.7       -      120.7     0.84      -       0.84       -          S
Subtotal Emergency School Repair                                       4759    3551    831.0       3.33     2.48      5.81       43       36
D. Seminars, Workshops and TraIning Id                                  31.2     205      51.8     0.22     0.14      0.36       40        2
Total Investment Costs                                                 1,0402   1,151 7  2,191.9     7.27      8.05    15.33       53       94
ll. Recurrent costs
A. Incremental Recurrent Expenditures
1. Pilot Schools
SIP Support Funds                                                  10.0      10 0     20 1     0 07     0.07     0.14       50         1
Building and Furniture Maintenance                                 11.5    11 5       23 0     0.08     0.08     0.16       50        1
Replacement of Books and Instructional Materials                    -        7 9       7 9      -       0 06     0.06      100       -
Subtotal Pilot Schools                                               21.5      29 4     510      0.15     0 21     0.36       58        2
2. Aftercare of Emergency School Repair                               13.9     13.9     27.8     0.10     010      0.19       50         1
3. Administrative and Miscellaneous Expenditures
Maintenance and Operation                                           -        18.8     18.8      -       0.13     0.13      100        1
MEC Supplemental Staff /a                                          23.4      -        23.4     0.16      -       0.16      -          1
Subtotal AdmInistrative and Miscellaneous Expenditures               23.4      18.8     422      0.16     0.13     0.30       44         2
Subtotal Incremental Recurrent Expenditures                             58.9     62.1    121.0     0.41     0.43     0.85       51         5
B. Project Secretariat
Maintenance and Operation                                             -         1.7      1 7      -       0.01     0.01      100
Supplies, Communications, Transportation                               4 5     13.5     18.0     0 03     0.09     0.13       75         1
Subtotal Project Secretariat                                             45      15.2     19.7     0.03     0.11     0.14       77         1
Total Recurrent Costs                                                     63.4     77.3    140.6     0.44      0.54     0.98       55        6
0t15 BAStLINtCLUblTb                                                     1,Iu3 0  1,Z2Y.U  Z,33z.0     ( (z     0.0w    1i 3.1     J0.      iU
Physical Contingencies                                                  43 9     41 5     85.4     0 31     0.29     0.80       49         4
Price Contingencies                                                    254 2     82 5    338.6     1 78     0.58     2.35       24        14
I OtaIVKURJtLt; I Loub I b                                               1 ,41J1 t  1,353 rJ  Z. 14.6  Y teu    Y 40   1W 10        4W       ila
\a txcept tJrtice iecnnology uquipment procurea unaer tne scnooi ntormation bystem pacKage
\b Except Office Technology Equipment procured under the School Information System package
\c Textbooks, library books, and other instructional materials and equpment
\d Workshops, Seminars, etc
\e School Information Officer



- 72 -
Table 8: GOG Counterpart Fund Expenditure Account by GOG Fiscal Year
Guyana: Secondary School Reform Project
GOG Counterpart Funds
Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Totals Including Contingencies                            Totals Including Contingencies (USS M llion)
GOG Fiscal Year  1996                             2000 10Z1    z20z    2003   total
1. Investment Costs
A. Educatlonal Program Improvement and Institutional Strengthening
1. School Information System
SIS Design and lIrpleeontabon Supervision                                  -
SIS Equipment, hstallation, Support and Training                   |
Subtotal School Information System
2 Goods
Office Technokgy Equipment (except under SIS)la la
Vehicles
Furniture
Subtotal Goods
3. Services
Senior Level Consultant
Middle Level Consutant (incl. salary top-up of NCERD staff)            0.004   0.012   0016   0.020   0.022   0.016   0.010   0.005   0.105
Subtotal Services                                                         u 004   U0.12  U0.lb   u.020   U.022    .0115   U.UiU   OU.Ub   u.010
Subtotal Educatlonal Program Improvement and institutional Strengthening    0.004   U.012   00Ulb   0.020 0Uu22    .0.UUl0b UU1U    U          .Uob MUD
EL Pilot Schools: Physlcal Plant and Goods
1. Physical Plant Improvement
avil Works                                                             0.011   0.061    0107   0.121    0.108   0.074   0.049   0020   0.552
Engineering Design, Management and Supervision                             -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -
Subtotal Physical Plant Improvement                                      ur1 1   Us61   U.10u     o U.121   UAW    U.U4   U.U49   U.020  U0bbZ
2. Goods /b
Books, Other Instructonal Materials and Equipment /c                       -
Furnnure
Subtotal Goods
Subtotal PllotSchools Physical Plantand Goods                              Uou1   UUb   U0.1u    0.121    0.Iu0    U0U04   U.04w   0.ulu   U.002
C. Erergency School Repair
Ovil Works                                                               0.012   0.059   0.099   0.106   0.090   0.059   0.037   0.014   0.475
Engineering Design, Management and Supervision                               -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -
Subtotal Ernergency School Repair                                          U U12   o.00    0Y    0.106   U9 UYU 0U       u 009   0.0J/  U0U14   U.4/1
D. Serriners, Workshops and Training Id
Total Investment Costs                                                       out/  U0132   U.22i   0.247   U.22u   U.149   0.09U   -700         1.1
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Recurrent Expenditures
1. Pilot Schools
SIP Support Funds                                                      0 009   0.015   0.017   0.018   0.021   0.025   0.028   0.015   0.148
Building and Furniure Maintenance                                          -       -       -   0.012   0.036   0.055   0.062   0.030   0.194
Replacenent of Books and Instructional Materials                       0.000   0.002   0.004   0.008   0.011   0.014   0.014   0.006   0.061
Subtotal Pilot Schools                                                   U.UUY   U.1 t 0 U.21   0.038   uU.bb  U0UY4   U1u4  U0.U1    U4Au
2. Aftercare of Emrrgency School Repair                                      -       -       -   0.015   0.043   0.067   0.075   0.036   0 235
3. Administrative and Miscellaneous Expenditures
Maintenance and Operahon                                               0 001   0.004   0.011   0.018   0.027   0.034   0.034   0.015   0.144
MEC Supplemental Staff /e                                              0 001   0.002   0.002   0 002   0.002   0.003   0.003   0.002   0.016
Subtotal Administrative and Miscellaneous Expenditures                |u.00    Uo.ot  U0.12   0.020   U.U29  U0.U2    0.u2    U0.U1I   U.1fU
Subtotal Incremental Recurrent Expenditures                                0 U011    Uu24   0u.02    0.012   U.14u   U.19    U.21ti   U1u4   0./19
EL Project Secretariat
Maintenance and OperaDon
Supplies, Communications, Transportabon
Subtotal Project Secretariat
Total Recurrent Coats                                                        o ou1I   U0.4   U0.u05   U.0U    0.14u   U1Y      U.zlb   U.104   U.190
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                       j .U03   U0.10    0.2bt   03.20   U.tu   U.34b   U.011I   0.143   1.92U
\a Except Office Technology Equipment procured under the School Inforrrmtion System package
\b Except Office Technology Equipment procured under the School hformetion System package
\c Textbooks, library books, and other instructional materials and equiprrnnt
\d Workshops, Serinars, etc
\e School Information Officer



- 73 -
Table 9: Expenditure Account by Financiers
Guiyena-
Secorndary School Reform Project                                                          ,    (GS Mlillion)                                                      (LIS$ Mlillon)
Bxpandfture Accounts by Rnanclers                                                      irianotitinalo  I                                                 International
Government of   Development   '                            Local  Government of   Development                                Local
Guyana        As sociation        Total                (Excl.     Guyana         As sociation        Total        For.   (Excl.
Amount   #    Amount   %    Amount   #    or. Exch Taxes) Amount   %    Am ount   #    Amount   %                     Exch.  Tatxes)
L investment Costs
A. Educational Program Improvement and Institutional Strengthening
1. School Information System
SIS Design and hptmentabon Supervision                            -       -        7.6   100.0     7 6      0.3     7.6     -0.05   100.0    0.05                             0.3    0.05
SES Equipment, hstelatiDn, Support and Trairin                                    63.3   100.0    63.3      2.3    63.3                             0.44   100.0    0.44      2.3    0.44
SubtotalSchool InformationSystem                                   -        -      70.9   100.0    70.9      2.6    70 9      -0.50   100 0    0.50                             2.6    0.50
2 Goode
Office Technology Equrrent (except urider$IS) /a                  -       -       17 3   100.0    17.3      0.6    17.3     -        -       -      0.12   100.0    0.12      0.6    0.12
Vehicls                                                           -       -        8.3   100.0     8.3      0.3     8.3     -        -       -      0.06   100.0    0.06      0.3    0.08
Frni'ture                                                         0.0     -        0.5   1W0.0     0.5     -        0.2     0.3    0.00      -      0.00   100.0    0.00      -       0.00    0.00
Subtotal Goods                                                     0 0      -      26.1   100.0    26.1      0.9    25.8      0.3    0.00     -       0.18   100.0    0.18      0.9    0.18    0.00
3. Servkes
SenliDrLevel Consultant                                           -       -      220.1   100.0   220.1      80   220 1      -        -       -       1.54   1W0.0    1.54     8.0    1.5.4 
MiddleLevel onsultant                                            22.1     9.3   215.4    90.7   237.5       8.6    67.3   170.2    0.15      9.3    1.51    90.7    1.66      86    0.47    1.19
SubtotdlS rvices                                                  22.1      4.8   435.4    95.2   457 5     16.6   287.3   170.2    0.15       4.8    3.04    95 2     320    16.6    2.01    1.19
Subtotal Educational Program Improvement and Instttutonal Strength   22.1    4.0   532. 4    96.0   554.5    20.1   384.0   170.5    015        4.0    3 72    96.0    3.88    20.1    2.89    1.19
EL P ot Schools: Physical Plant and Goods
1. Physia kPlRant Improvement
CivilvVorK                                                       81.6    10.0   734.0    90.0   8`15.6    29.6   357.8   457.7    0.57    10.0    5.13    90.0    5.70    29.6    2.50    3.20
ErsheftDesign, Maknaffent andSupervision                          -       -      155.6   100.0   155.6      56      -     155.6     -        -      1.09   100.0    1.09      5.6     -       1.09
Subtotal Phy kal Plant Improvement                                81.6      8 4   889.6    91.6   971.2    35.3   357.8   613 4    0.57       8 4    6 22    91.6    6.79    35 3    2.50    4.29
2. Goods lb
Books. 0lw instructionsalMaterials and Equipffent /c              00      -      148.3   1W0.0   148.3      5.4   139 0     9.4    0.W0      -      1.04   1W0.0    1.04      5.4    0.97    0.07
Furnitue                                                          0.0     -       32.7   100.0    32.7      12     14.3    18 3    0.W       -      0.23   1W0.0    0.23      1.2    0.10    0.13
Subtotal Goods                                                     0.0      -     181.0   1W0.0   181.0      6.6   153.3    27.7    0.W0              1.27   1W0.0    1 27      6.6    1.07    0.19
Subvtotal Ptot Schools:Physical Plant and Goods                     81.6     7.1  1,070.7    92.9  1,152.2    41.8   511.2   641.1    0 57      7.1    7.49    92.9   a806    418    3.57    4.48
C. Emnergency School Rspair
(i vovrks                                                          71.0    10.0   639.2    90.0   710.2    258   355.1   355 1    0,50    10 0    4.47    90.0    4.97    25.8    2.48    2.48
EngweerhgDesign, Managernent aridSupervision                       -        -     120.7T  100.0   120.7      44      -      120.7     -       -       0.84   1W0.0    0.84      4.4     -      0.84
SubtotalErnergency School Repair                                    71.0     8.5   759.9    91 5   831.0    30.2   355.1   475.9    0.50        8.5    5.31    91.5    5.81    30.2    2.48    3.33
D. Semlnww, vU:rhops and Training /d                                 0.0     -       72.0   1W0.0    72.0      2.6    23.4    48.5    0.W0      -      0 50   1W0.0    0.50      2.6    0.16    0.34
Tota llnvestment Costs                                               174 7     6.7  2,435.0    93.3  2,609.7    94.7  1,273.8  1,335.9    1.22    6.7   17.03    93.3   18.25    94.7    8.91    9 34
11. necurrent coasts
A. Incremental fcurrent Expenditures
1. Pllot S'chools
SP Support Funds                                                 21.1   1W0.0      -       -      21.1      0.8    10.5    10.5    0.15   1W0.0      -        -      0.15     0.8    0.07    0.07
BukWgand Furnitre  iantenanrve                                   23.0   100.0     -        -      23.0      0.8    11.5    11.5    0.16   1W0.0      -       -       0.16     0.8    0.08    0.08
Fepwnwnt of B4ook and hnstructbDnal Materials                    7.9   1W0.0     -        -       7 9      o03     7 9             0.06   1W0.0     -       -       0.08     0 3    0.08
Subtotal Ptlot Schools                                            52.0   1W0.0                      52 0     19    29.9    22.0    0.36   1W0.0                       0.36      1.9    0.21    0.15
2. Aftercare ofEmwrgency School Repair                             27.8   1W0.0     -       -       27.8     1,0    13.9    13.9    019    1W0.0       -       -      0.19      1.0    0.10    0.10
3. Admtnbstrnive and MlseeHaneous Expenditures
MaItnWance and Operation                                         18.8   1W0.0     -        -      18.8      0.7    18.8     -       0.13   1W0.0     -       -       0.13     0.7    0.13 
NEC Sup,obmentalStafft/e                                          2.3    10.0    21.1    90.0    23 4       0.9     -      23.4    0.02    10.0    0.15    90.0    0.16       0.9     -       0.16
SubtotalAdministrative and Miscellaneous Expenditures             21.1    50.0    21 1    50.0    42.2       1.5    18.8    23.4    0.15    50.0    0.15    50.0   ,0.30        1.5    0.13    0.16
SubtotalIncremental Rcuffent Expenditures                          100.9    82.7    21.1    17.3   122.0       4.4    62 6    594    0.71    82.7    0.15    17 3    0 85        44    0.44    0.42
EL ProJect Secretariat
MWintenance and Operation                                          -        -       1.7   1W0.0      17      01       17      -       -       -       0.01   1W0.0    0.01     0.1    0.01
Supples, CoDmmunrcations. Transportation                           e o             21.3   100.0    213       0 8    14 9      6.4    0.W      -       015   100.0    0.15       0.8    0.10    0.04
Subtotal ProJect Secretariat                                         0.0             22.9   1W0.0    22 9      0.8    16.6     6.4    0.W0             0.16   1W0.0    0.16      0.8    0.12     04
Total Recurrent Costs                                                100.9    69.6    44.0    30.4   144.9      5 3    79 2    65.7 10.71    69.6    0 31    30.4    1.01    S53    0.55    0.46
Total Elsbursement                                          -         2/b.b    lU.O  2,4t90U    900  Z./04.b   IUUU  1,33'.1  1,401.b I1S3        10.0   1it34     90.0   19.26   1U1J.0    9.46    WM6
-a txcepILt uice ecnnologybup,ment procured under the SChookI orrrvton System pachage
lb Except Office Technology Equipmnt procured under the School htfornmetion System package
\c Texttok, lbrary boohr., and other mnstructional rraterials and equipment
vd Workshops, Seminars, etc.
be School khfornmation Officer



- 74 -
Table 10: Expenditure Accounts by Year - Total Including Contingencies
Giuyana
Secondary School Reform Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Totals Including Contingencies                      Totals Including Contingencies (GS Million)                       Totals Including Contingencies (US$ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year  1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    Total   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003   Total
I. investment Costs
A. Educational Program Improvement and Institutional Strengthening
1. School Information System
StS Design and Ipiementation Supervision                            0.4     1.8      1.9     1.7     0.9     0.5      0.3       7.6    0.00    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.05
SISEquipmrentl,hstlaabon. Support and Training                      3.6    15.2    15.6    14.1      7.9     4.1      2.8     63 3    0 02    0 11    0.11    0.10    0.06    0.03    0.02    0.44
SubtotalSchool Information System                                     4.0    17 1    17.5    15.8      88a     4.5      3.1      70 9    0 03    0 12    0.12    0.11    0.06    0.03    0.02    0.50
2. Goods
OfficeaTechnology Equipmnlot(exceptlunder SSb)/a                   10,1     1.8      1.9     1.7     1.0     0 5      0.3      17.3    0.07    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.12
Vehicles                                                            0.S     2.0     2.1      1.9     1.0     0.5      0.4      8.3         0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.06
Furniture                                                           0.2     0.1     0.1      0.1     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.5    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Subtotal Goods                                                       10.7     3.9      4.0     3.6     2.0      1.0     0.7     26.1    0.08    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.01    0.01    0.00    0.18
3. Service a
Senior LevelConsullant                                             14.6    51.1    52.3    47.5    27.7    15.4    11.4    220.1    0.10    0.36    0.37    0.33    0.19    0.11    0.08    1.54
MiddbaLevel Consullant                                             85.1    31.3    34.1    35.0    30.0    11.4    10.5    237.5    0.60    0.22    0.24    0.24    0.21    0.08    0.07    1.66
Subtotal Services                                                    99.7    82.4    86.4    82.4    57.7    26.9    22.0    457.5    0.70    0.58    0.60    0.58    0.40    0.19    0.15    3.20
Subtotal Educational Program Improvement and Institutional Strengt   114.5   103.4   107.9   101.9    68.6    32.5    25.8    554.5    0.80    0.72    0.75    0.71    0.48    0.23    0.18    3.88
S. Pilot Schools: Physical Plant and Goods
1. Physical Plant Improvement
Civi Works                                                         42.2   186.5   197.8   184.7   107.0    56.9    40.4    815.6    0.30    1.30    1.38    1.29    0.75    0.40    0.28    5.70
EngineeringDesign.Managenient and Supervision                       7.5    34.1    37.2    35.7    21.2    11.6       8.4    155.6    0.05    0.24    0.26    0.25    0.15    0.08    0.06    1.09
Subtotal Physical Plantlm prove m ent                                49.8   220.6   235.0   220.4   128.2    68.5    48.8    971.2    0.35    1.54    1.64    1.54    0.90    0.48    0.34    6.79
2. Goods lb
Books, Other Istructional Materials and Equipment /c                8.3    35.5    36.6    33.1    18.6      9.6      6 6    148.3    0.06    0 25    0.26    0.23    0.13    0.07    0.05    1.04
Fumiture                                                            1.7     7.5     7.9      7.4     4.3     2.3      1.6     32.7    0.01    0.05    0.06    0.05    0.03    0.02    0.01    0.23
Subtotal Goods                                                       t0 0    43.0    44.5    40.5    22.9    1 1.9      8.2    181.0    0.07    0.30    0.31    0.28    0.16    0.08    0.06    1.27
Subtotal Pilot Schools: Physical Plant and Goods                       59.7   263.6   279.5   260.9   151.2    80.3    57.0  1,152.2    0.42    1.84    1.95    1.82    1.06    0.56    0.40    8.06
C. Emergency School Rtepair
Civil Works                                                          42.6   177.6   177.6   156.3    85.2    4286    28.4    710.2    0.30    1.24    1.24    1.09    0.60    0 30    0.20    4.97
Engineering Design, Managemient and Supervision                       7.2    30.2    30.2    26.6    14.5       7.2     4.8    120.7    0.05    0.21    0.21    0.19    0.10    0.05    0.03    0.84
Subtotal Emergency School Repair                                       49.9  207.7   207.7   182.8    99.7    49.9    33.2    831.0    0.35    1.45    1.45    1.28    0.70    0.35    0.23    5.81
D.Serrinars, Workshops and Training/d                                  11.1    14.4    15.4    14.6      8.6      4.6     3.3      72.0    0.08    0.10    0 11    0.10    0.06    0.03    0.02    0.50
Total Investment Costs                                                  235.1   589.1   610.6   560.2   328.0   167.3   119.3  2,609.7    1.64    4.12    4.27    3.92    2.29    1.17    0.83   18.25
II. Kecurrent Costs
A. Incremental Rtecurrent Expendltures
1. Pilot Schools
SP Support Funds                                                    3.2     3.2     3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0     21.1    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.15
Budding and Furnilure Maintenance                                   -       -       -        3.9     6.1     7.0      6.0     23.0                             0,03    0.04    0 05    0.04    0.16
Replacerrent of Books and Istructional Materials                    0.1     0.6      1.1     1.5     1.7      1.7     1.3      7,9    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.06
Subtotal Pilot Schools                                                3.3     3.7      4.0     8.3    10.8    11.6    10.2      52.0    0.02    0.03    0.03    0.06    0.08    0.08    0.07    0.36
2. Aftercare of Emergency School Repair                               -       -       -        4.7     7.4      8.4     7.2     27.8      -       -       -      0.03    0.05    0.06    0.05    0.19
3. Administrative and Mliscellaneous Expenditures
Maintenanceaand Operation                                           0.3     1.4     2.5      3.5     4.0     4.0      3.1     18.8    0.00    0.01    0.02    0.02    0.03    0.03    0.02    0.13
MEC Supplerrental Staff he                                          3.5     3.5     3.3      3.3     3.3     3.3      3.3     23.4    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.16
Subtotal Administrative and Miscellaneous Expenditures               3.8     4.9      5.8     6 8     7.3      7.3     6.4     42.2    0.03    0 03    0.04    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.04    0.30
Subtotal Incremental ReCurrent Expenditures                             7.1     8.6      9.8    19.8    25 5    27.3    23.8    122.0    0.05    0 06    0.07    0.14    0.18    0.19    0.17    0.85
B, Project Secretariat
Maintenance and Operation                                             0.2     0.2     0.3      0.3     0.3     0.2      0.1       1 7    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01
Supplies, Cofmrnnicatbons, Transportation                             3,5     3.6     3.8      3.9     4.1      1.2     1 2     21.3    0.02    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.01    0.01    0.15
Subtotal Project Secretariat                                            3.6     3.8      4.0     4.2     4.5      1.4     1.4     22.9    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0 01    0.01    0.16
Total Recurrent Costs                                                    10.7    12.5    13.8    24.1    30.0    28.7    25.2    144.9    0.07    0.09    0.10    0.17    0.21    0.20    0.18    1.01
I Otal rHWJECTCIU105S                                                     245.8   601.6   5z4.4   584.J   J58.u  lYb.u   144.0  2, tt4.t    1 1z    4.21    4.31    4.UY    ;!.bu    1.3t    1.u1   19.;eb
%a cxcept rUffice Ileennology tquipment procured under the School hlformratbon System packeage
lb Except Office Technology Equipament procured under the School Informrabon System package
vc Textbooks, library books, and other instructional miaterials and equipffent
vd Workshops, Serrinars, etc.
ve School hnformewtion Officer



- 75 -
Table 11: Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
-Guyana
Secondary School Reform Project                               (G$ MIllion)                                                       (US$ Mlllion)
Disburseme nt Accounts by Financiers                InternatIonal                                                          InternatIonal
Government of   Development                                   Local   Government of    Development                                  Local
Guyana         Association          Total                 (Excl.      Guyana         Association          Total         For.   (Excl.
Amount    %    Amount    %    Amount    %            or. Exch Taxes) Amount    %    Amount    %    Amount    %              Exch.  Taxes)
A. Clvil Works
1. Plot Schools                 81.6    10.0   734.0    90.0   815.6    29.6   357.8   457.7    0.57            10.0    5.13     90.0    5.70      29.6    2.50      3.20
2. Energency School Repair       71.0    10.0   639.2    90.0   710.2    25.8   355.1   355.1          0.50     10.0    4.47     90.0    4.97      25.8    2.48      2.48
Subtotal Civil worKs             152.5      0.   1,373.2    V0.0  1,525.8    55.4   113.0   112.3    1.0          10.0    Y.50     90.0   10.57      s5.4     4.99    5.65
B. Goods
1. Plot Schools /a               0.0      -      173.4   100.0   173.4       6.3   146.2    27.2    0.00        -        1.21    100.0    1.21      6.3    1.02     0.19
2. Other hb                      0.0      -       92.7   100.0    92.7       3.4    91.9       0.8    0.00               0.65    100.0    0.65      3.4    0.64     0.01
SUbtotal Goods                     0.0             255.1    1s0.0   251.1      9.7   235.1    2W.D    0.00        -       1.85    100.0     1.6       9.7    1.57     0.20
C. Consultants Services
1. Assistance in the Devealprmnt  -       -       17.1   100.0    17.1       0.6    17.1       -        -       -       0.12    100.0    0.12       0.6    0.12
of School kvWovement Plans
2. School Design                 -        -       13.9   100.0    13.9       0.5      7.6      6.3                      0.10    100.0    0.10       0.5    0.05     0.04
Guidehne/Standard and
Nationw ide PhysicaI Facilty
Survey
3. Other /c                      -               621.1    100.0   621.1    22.5   203.0   418.1         -       -       4.34    100.0    4.34      22.5    1.42     2.92
Subtotalconsultants Services                -      552.1   100.0   852.1    23.7   221.7   424.S          -       -       4.55    100.0    4.55      23.7    1.59     2.S1
D. Training                        0.0      -       64.8   100.0    64.6       2.4    16.3    48.5    0.00        -       0.45    100.0    0.45       2.4    0.11     0.34
E. Operating Expendltures
1. MECSuppbementalStaff/d      123.0    84.8    22.0    15.2   145.0         5.3    63.5    81.5    0.86       84.8    0.15      15.2    1.01       5.3    0.44     0.57
2. ProjectSecretariatle          0.0      -       22.0   100.0    22.0       0.8    15.7       6.4    0.00      -       0.15    100.0    0.15       0.8    0.11     0.04
Subtotal operating Expenditures   1Z3.0    73.6    44.0    z6.4   167.0        6.1    79.2    87.8    0.85       73.6    0.31      26.4    1.17       5.1    0.55     0.51
F. PPF Refinancing                 -        -       78.7   100.0    78.7       2.9    78.7       -       .        -       0.55    100.0    0.55      2.9    0.55
Total                              275.6    10.0  2,479.0    90.0  2,754.6   100.0  1,353.0  1,401.6       1.93    10.0   17.34      90.0   19.26    100.0    9.46      9.80
Xa Textbooks, reading boOkS, other instructional material and equipment, and furniture
\b hlckding the SIS package (hardw are, softw are, application development and training)
\c hnckiding architecturaVengineering design and supervision of w orks for Pilot Schools and Emergency School Repair
vd School hnformation Officer
ve Utilites, Communications, Equipment Maintenance and Operation, and Supplies



- 76 -
Table 12: Procurement Accounts by Year
Guyana
3econdary School Reform Project
Procurement Accounts by Years                       Totals Including Contingencies (GS Million)                           Totals Including Contingencies (US$ Million)
1997     1998     1999      2000     2001      2002     2003     Total    1997      1998      1999     2000      2001     2002     2003      Total
1. Civil Works                 80.4    344.8    355.5    322.8    182.1       94.3      65.2   1445.1     0.56      2.41     2.49      2.26     1.27      0.66     0.46    10.11
2. Goods                       20.1      62.1     64.2      58.3     32.8     17.0      11.7    266.2      0.14     0.43     0.45      0.41     0.23      0.12     0.08      1.86
3. Consultants Services        77.6    176.2    186.1    191.4    144.1       96.2      77.4    949.0      0,54     1.23      1.30     1.34     1.01      0.67     0.54      6.64
4. Training and Operating Expe  14.8     18.3     19.5      18.8     13.0      5.8       4.5     94.7      0.10     0.13     0.14      0.13     0.09      0.04     0.03      0.66
Total                            192.9    601.4    625.3    591.3    372.0    213.3    158.8  2,755.0        1.35     4.21      4.37     4.13      2.60     1.49      1.11    19.27
Table 13: Procurement Accounts by Financiers
Guyana
Secondary School Reform Project                              (G$ Million)                                                                (US$ Million)
Procurement Accounts by Financiers                Intemational                                                                 IntematIonal
Govemment of       Development                                   Local      Govemment of        Development                                   Local
Guyana           Association           Total                  (Excl.        Guyana           Association           Total          For.    (Excl.
Amount      %      Amount      %      Amount      %     For. Exch.  Taxes)   Amount     %      Amount      %      Amount      %       Exch.    Taxes)
1. Civil Works                72.2       5.0   1,372.8     95.0   1,445.0     52.5    675.2    769.8       0.50      5.0      9.60     95.0    10.10      52.5      4.72     5.38
2. Goods                       -         -       266.2    100.0    266.2       9.7    238.2      28.0       -        -        1.86     100.0     1.86      9.7      1.67     0.20
3. Consultants Services       203.2     21.4    745.7      78.6    948.9      34.4    414.7    534.2       1.42     21.4      5.21     78.6      6.64     34.4      2.90      3.74
4. Training and Operating Expen  0.0     0.0      94.8    100.0      94.8      3.4      39.9     54.9      0.00      0.0      0.66     100.0     0.66      3.4      0.28     0.38
Total                           275.4     10.0   2,479.5     90.0   2,754.9    100.0   1,368.0   1,386.9     1.93     10.0    17.34      90.0    19.27      100.0     9.57     9.70



- 77 -
GUYANA
SECONDARY SCHOOL REFORM PROJECT
ANNEX XI: DRAFT PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN



GUYANA: Secondary School Reform Project / Work Program                                                                        Ministry of Education and Cultural Development
Annex Xl (1): Draft: First Year Work Plan
ar1 I
Start    Task Name                                  Dur       Finish           Jul            Aug            Sep             Oct            Nov             Dec
Jul 6 Project Secretariat                       25.4w         Dec 29
Jul 6    Designation of the Civil Works         25.4w        Dec 29
Coordinator
Jul 6        Prepare TOR                           7d         Jul 14
Jul 6        Search and identify a candidate     5.8w        Aug 15
Jul 14        Send TOR for IDA's no objection       Od         Jul 14
Jul 17        If Satisfactory, IDA sends no         1w         Jul 21
objection
Jul 17        Draft a contract                      1w         Jul 21
Aug 15         Send a draft contract and the         Od        Aug 15
candidate's CV to IDA for no     _                                          r
Aug 16         If satisfactory, IDA sends no         1w        Aug 22
objection
Aug 23         Negotiate and sign the contract with  1w        Aug 29
the candidate
Aug 29         Send a copy of the signed contract to  Od       Aug 29
IDA                                                                                 l
Sep 1         Civil Works Officer in place       17.2w        Dec 29
Jul 6    Designation of the                     25.4w        Dec 29
ProcurementUFinance Officer
Jul 6        Prepare TOR                         3.6w         Jul 31
Jul 6        Search and identify a candidate     8.2w        Aug 31
Jul 31        Send TOR for IDA's no objection       Od         Jul 31
Aug 1         If Satisfactory, IDA sends no         1w         Aug 7
objection                         ___     ______
Aug 1         Draft a contract                      lw         Aug 7
Aug 31         Send a draft contract and the         Od        Aug 31
candidate's CV to IDA for no             _
Sep 1         If satisfactory, IDA sends no         1w         Sep 7
objection
Sep 8         Negotiate and sign the contract with  1w        Sep 14
the candidate
Annex Xl (1): Page 1                   M:\PROJECTS\GUYANA\2ND-EDU.LEN\MPJ\SSRP-PPF.MPP



GUYANA: Secondary Scnool Reform Project / Work Program                                                                        Ministry of Education and Cultural Development
Annex Xl (1): Draft: First Year Work Plan
Start    Task Name                                   Dur |   Finish       r    Jul            Aug             Sep            Oct             Nov            Dec
Sep 14         Send a copy of the signed contract to  Od        Sep 14
IDA
Oct 2         Procurement/Finance Officer in place    13w     Dec 29
Jul 7    Procurement of OT Equipment for the      12w         Sep 28  K                     -                    K>
Secretariat
Jul 7        MEC prepares a list and               8w        Aug 31   __2_               _
specifications for the equipment
Aug 31         Send the list for IDAs no objection   Od        Aug 31
Sep 1         Procure the equipment                 4w        Sep 28
Jul 17     Designation of the Project Director     24w         Dec 29                        -
Jul 17        Send the candidate's CV to IDA for    Od         Jul 17
no objection
Jul 17        If satisfactory, IDA sends no         1w         Jul 21
objection
Jul 24        MOF sends a letter to IDA indicating  2w         Aug 4
the Project Director designate is
Aug 15         Formal appointment                    Od        Aug 15
Aug 15         Project Director in place          19.8w         Dec 29
Jul 6 In-Service Teacher Training by UG         22.2w          Dec 7                                                                                K>
Jul 6    Training of Teachers                    7.8w        Aug 29 K                      _
Jul 6        UG ascertain training needs of        ld          Jul 6
teachers from the pilot schools
Jul 7        UG develops and submits a detailed    2w         Jul 20
proposal of the planned summer
Jul 21        MEC reviews the plan and prepare a    2w         Aug 3
contract
Aug 3         MEC sends a draft contract and the    Ow         Aug 3
CVs of key instructors for IDA's no
Aug 4         If satisfactory, IDA gives no objection  1w     Aug 10
Aug 16         UG Training Workshop of teachers      2w        Aug 29
and department heads, being
Sep 1     Training Program for the First Project  8.6w         Oct 31                              K>                             K>
Year                                I       I
Annex Xl (1): Page 2                   M:\PROJECTS\GUYANA\2ND-EDU.LEN\MPJ\SSRP-PPF.MPP



GUYANA: Secondary School Reform Project / Work Program                                                                        Ministry of Education and Cultural Development
Annex Xi (1): Draft: First Year Work Plan
ar I
Start    Task Name                                   Dur      Finish           Jul            Aug             Sep      |     Oct             Nov            Dec
Sep 1         MEC prepares a proposal invitation  2.2w        Sep 15
Sep 15         MEC submits an invitation of          Od        Sep 15
proposal for IDA's no objection
Sep 18         If satisfactory, IDA gives no objection  1w     Sep 22
Sep 25         MEC distributes the invitation to UG  5.4w       Oct 31
and any other interested entity / MEC
Oct 31         Submit the final proposal to IDA      Od        Oct 31
Oct 16     Training of Head Masters and Deputies    7.8w        Dec 7                                                      K>
Oct 16         UG develops and submits a detailed   2w         Oct 27
proposal of the planned Head
Oct 30         MEC reviews the plan and prepare a   2w         Nov 10
contract
Nov 10         MEC sends a draft contract and the    Ow        Nov 10
CVs of key instructors for IDA's no    __.__
Nov 13         If satisfactory, IDA gives no objection  1w     Nov 17
Dec 1         UG Training Workshop of Head          1w         Dec 7
Masters and Deputy
Jul 6 Establishment of Supervision Teams        25.4w         Dec 29 K>
Jul 6    Develop TORs for Supervision Team         2w         Jul 19
Members
Jul 6    Identify candidates and prepare draft     4w         Aug 2
contracts
Jul 19    Send TORs for IDA's no objection          ov         Jul 19
Jul 20    If satisfactory, IDA sends no objection   1w         Jul 26
Aug 2     Send draft contracts and CVs of           Od         Aug 2
candidates for IDA's no objectionl
Aug 3     If satisfactory, IDA sends no objection   1w         Aug 9
Aug 10     Sign contracts with supervision members   4d        Aug 15
Aug 15     Supervision Teams fully established       Ow        Aug 15
Aug 30     Supervision Team in place              1_7.6w       Dec 29
Annex Xl (1): Page 3                   M:\PROJECTS\GUYANA\2ND-EDU.LEN\MPJ\SSRP-PPF.MPP



GUYANA: Secondary School Reform Project/ Work Program                                                                         Ministry of Edu,catIon and Cultural Development
Annex Xl (1): Draft: First Year Work Plan
ar1 
Start    Task Name                                   Dur      Finish           Jul            Aug             Sep            Oct             Nov            Dec
Dec 1     Recruitment of an Intemational          4.2w        Dec 29
Teacher Training Specialist
Dec 1         Prepare TOR                           2w        Dec 14
Dec 1         Search and identify a candidate     4.2w        Dec 29                                                                               Dooo ooooo
Dec 14         Send TOR for IDA's no objection       Od        Dec 14
Dec 15         If Satisfactory, IDA sends no         1w        Dec 21
objection
Jul 6 Student Performance Assessment            13.4w          Oct 6
Jul 6    Recruitment of an Intemational Student   3.6w        Jul 31
Performance Assessment Specialist
Jui 6        Prepare TOR                           1w         Jul 12
Jul 6        Search and identify a candidate       2w         Jul 19
Jul 12        Send TOR for IDA's no objection       Od         Jul 12
Jul13         If Satisfactory, IDA sends no         1w         Jul19
objection
Jul 13        Draft a contract                      1w         Jul 19
Jul 19        Send a draft contract and the         Od         Jul 19
candidate's CV to IDA for no
Jul 20        If satisfactory, IDA sends no         3d         Jul 24
objection
Jul 25        Negotiate and sign the contract with  1w         Jul 31
the candidate
Jul 31        Send a copy of the signed contract to  Od        Jul 31
IDA
Jul 6    Establish a mechanism of collaboration    3d         Jul 10
between TDU and CDIU
Jul 6    Write to MEC/Jamaica to seek permission  18d         Jul 31
to use Milner/Erwin reading test (by July
Aug 1     modify Jamaican reading test             23d        Aug 31
Sep 1     Administer the reading test (1 st&2nd week  2w      Sep 14
Sep.)
Sep 25     Workshop                                  2w          Oct 6
Annex Xl (1): Page 4                   M:\PROJECTS\GUYANA\2ND-EDU.LEN\MPJ\SSRP-PPF.MPP



GUYANA: Secondary School Reform Project / Work Program                                                                        Ministry of Education and Cultural Development
Annex Xl (1): Draft: First Year Work Plan
ar I
Start    Task Name                                   Dur      Finish           Jul            Aug             Sep            Oct             Nov            Dec
Sep 25         Pre-workshop discussion with the      1w         Sep 29
consultant
Oct 2         Workshop assisted by the consultant  1w           Oct 6
Jul 6 Emergency School Repair and Pilot School   25.4w        Dec 29
Rehabilitation
Jul 6    Nation-wide survey of school facilities   26.4w      Dec 29
Jul 6        Hiring of the                      10.2w         Sep 14
architecturaUengineering
Jul 6            Prepare TOR                     3.6w         Jul 31
Jul 6            Search and identify a candidate    8.2w     Aug 31
Jul 31            Send TOR for IDA's no objection   Od         Jul 31
Aug 1             If Satisfactory, IDA sends no     1w          Aug 7
objection
Aug 1             Draft a contract                  1w         Aug 7
Aug 31             Send a draft contract and the     Od        Aug 31
candidate's CV to IDA for no
Sep 1             If satisfactory, IDA sends no     1w         Sep 7
objection
Sep 8             Negotiate and sign the contract   1w        Sep 14
with the candidate                   _
Sep 14             Send a copy of the signed         Od        Sep 14
contract to IDA                     I
Sep 15         Survey work                        15.2w        Dec 29
Jul 6    Development of proto-type design       18.2w          Nov 9
standards
Jul 6        Hiring of consultant               10.2w        Sep 14 \i                                   K)
Jul 6            Prepare TOR                     3.6w         Jul 31
Jul 6            Search and identify a candidate    8.2w     Aug 31
Jul 31            Send TOR for IDA's ncs objection  Od         Jul 31
Aug 1             If Satisfactory, IDA sends no     1w         Aug 7
objection                   I                     I                                                        I                                      I
Annex Xl (1): Page 5                   M:\PROJECTS\GUYANA\2ND-EDU.LEN\MPJ\SSRP-PPF.MPP



GUYANA: Secondary School Refowm Project/ Work Program                                                                     Minis"y of Educaion and Cuitural Development
Annex Xi (1): Draft: First Year Work Plan
ari1
Start    Task Name                                 Dur      Finish           Jul           Aug            Sep             Oct            Nov            Dec
Aug 1             Draft a contract                 1w         Aug 7
Aug 31             Send a draft contract and the    Od        Aug 31
candidate's CV to IDA for no
Sep 1             If satisfactory, IDA sends no   1w          Sep 7
objecion
Sep 8             Negotiate and sign the contract  1w       Sep 14
with the candidate
Sep 14             Send a copy of the signed        Od       Sep 14
contract to IDA
Sep 15         Design Work                         8w          Nov 9
Jul 14    Award of contract to the design          Od        Jul 14
consultants for pilot school civil works
Jul 6 Finalization of SIP Guidelines and       15.4w        Oct 20
Assistance to schools in preparing SIAC
Jul 6    Finalization of SIP Guidelines        13.4w         Oct 6
Jul 6        Recruitment of an Intemational     7.8w        Aug 29
School-based-management (SBM)
Jul 6            Prepare TOR                     3w         Jul 26
Jul 6            Search and identify a candidate    5.8w   Aug 15
Jul 27            Send TOR for IDA's no objection  Id        Jul 27
Jul 27           If Satisfactory, IDA sends no   0.8w        Aug 1
objection
Jul 28            Draft a contract                1w         Aug 3
Aug 15             Send a draft contract and the    Od       Aug 15
candidate's CV to IDA for no
Aug 16            If satisfactory, IDA sends no    1w        Aug 22
objection
Aug 23             Negotiate and sign the contract  1w       Aug 29
with the candidate
Aug 29             Send a copy of the signed        Od       Aug 29
contract to IDA
Aug 30         SBM specialist's work / finalize SIP  5.4w      Oct 5
Guidelines satisfactory to MEC
Oct 6        MEC submits the final draft SIP    0.2w         Oct 6
Guidelines to IDA;             I_I_I_I
Annex Xi (1): Page 6                  M:\PROJECTS\GUYANA\2ND-EDU.LEN\MPJ\SSRP-PPF.MPP



GUYANA: Secondary School Reform Project / Work Program                                                                        Ministry of Education and Cultural Development
Annex Xl (1): Draft: First Year Work Plan
ari1
Start    Task Name                                   Dur      Finish           Jul            Aug             Sep            Oct             Nov            Dec
Jul 6    Support of Participatory School         15.4w        Oct 20 \)
Management
Jul 6         Recruitment of an Participatory     7.2w       Aug 24
School Management Facilitator
Jul 6            Prepare TOR                       3w         Jul 26
Jul 6            Search and identify a candidate    5.2w     Aug 10
Jul 27            Send TOR for IDA's no objection   Id         Jul 27
Jul27             if Satisfactory, IDA sends no   0.8w         Aug 1
objection
Jul28             Draft a contract                  1w         Aug 3
Aug 10             Send a draft contract and the     Od        Aug 10
candidate's CV to IDA for no
Aug 11             If satisfactory, IDA sends no     1w        Aug 17
objection                    _
Aug 18             Negotiate and sign the contract   1w        Aug 24
with the candidate                   _
Aug 24             Send a copy of the signed         Od        Aug 24
contract to IDA
Aug 30         Facilitator's service               7.6w         Oct 20                             _
Jul 6 Curlculum Development                     25.4w         Dec 29
Jul 6    Identify a candidate                      8w        Aug 30   __      _     _    _
Jul 6    Establish Curriculum Instructional       52d        Sep 15   ______________
Materials Teams (CIMTs)
Jul 15    Formally designate Curriculum             Od         Jul 15
Development Officer as Curriculum
Jul 17    Draft TOR for Conference (Nov. 16117)    22d        Aug 15
Faclitator
Aug 30     Send the TOR for IDA's no objection       Od        Aug 30
Aug 31     IDA gives no objection, if satisfactory   1w         Sep 6
Aug 30     Send a draft contract and the CV of the   Ow        Aug 30
candidate for IDA's no objection    I
Sep 7     if satisfactory, IDA gives no objection   1w        Sep 13
Annex Xl (1): Page 7                   M:\PROJECTS\GUYANA\2ND-EDU.LEN\MPJ\SSRP-PPF.MPP



GUYANA: Secondary School Retorn Project/ Work Program                                                                             Ministry of Education and Cultural Development
Annex Xi (1): Draft: First Year Work Plan
ar 1
Start    Task Name                                    Dur       Finish           Jul             Aug             Sep             Oct             Nov             Dec
Sep 18     CIMTs in place                             15w        Dec 29
Sep 18      Preparation of of a document discussing    2w        Sep 29
the over-arching principle of curriculum
Oct 24     In-house discussions of document            3d        Oct 26
Nov 16     Conference on the document                  2d        Nov 17
Dec 8     Start identification of 3 international     Od         Dec 8
subject consultants (General, Math,
Jul 6 Textbooks                                   25.4w         Dec 29
Jul 6     Invite publishers and booksellers to      18d         Jul 31
send/display complimentary books
Jul 6    Finalize local textbook refinement       25.4w        Dec 29   _                  _      _                                _
Jul 6    Prepare TOR for Intemational Textbook      2w          Jul 19
consultant
Jul 6    Identify a candidate                     13.5w          Oct 9
Jul 19    Submit the TOR for IDA's no objection       Od         Jul 19
Jul 20     If satisfactory, IDA gives no objection    1w         Jul 26
Oct 9     Send a draft contract and the CV for IDA's  Od         Oct 9
no objection
Oct 9     If satisfactory, IDA gives no objection    1w         Oct 16
Oct 16     Sign the contract with the consultant      1w         Oct 23
Oct 23     Consuitant's assistant to the Workshop     1w         Oct 30
Preparation
Oct 30     Workshop for LRU & other NCERD staff       1w          Nov 6
with consultant
Jul 7 School Information Systems                  25.2w        Dec 29   -
Jul 7    Continue School Mapping Exercise        25.2w         Dec 29 
Jul 24 Management Training by MEC                    14w         Oct 27
Jul 24     Management Workshop for Head Masters       1w         Jui 28
and Deputy Head Masters                                                                                                                                      _
Annex Xl (1): Page 8                    M:\PROJECTS\GUYANA\2ND-EDU.LEN\MPJ\SSRP-PPF.MPP



GUYANA: Secondary School Reform Project / Work Program                                                                  Ministry of Education and Cultural Development
Annex Xl (1): Draft: First Year Work Plan
arl
Start    Task Name                                Dur       Finish          Jul           Aug            Sep            Oct           Nov            Dec
Sep 11     MEC Training Director determines the    1w        Sep 15
training needs of DEOs and DESs       _
Sep 25    Initial Training of Supervision Team     1w        Sep 29
Oct 23    Training Workshop for DEOs and DESs     lw         Oct 27
_________  by MEC                                              Xl (1): Page_9________________________________________________
Annex XI (1): Page 9                 M:\PROJECTS\GUYANA\2ND-EDU.LEN\MAPJ\SSRP-PPF.MPP



Guyana Secondary School Reform Support Project
Annex XI (2): Draft Five Year Indicative Plan
96            1997       1     1998             1999             2000             2001
WBS      Task Name                                          Q3 Q4 0Q  Q2 Q3 Q4  Ql Q2  Q3 Q4 Q 1Q2  Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 03 Q4  Ql 02 03  Q4 Ql
I        School Quality Improvement
1.1          Education Programs
1.1.1            Support of Education Improvement Plans
1.1.2           Introduction of a Common Curriculum
1. '2.1             Equipment
1.1.2.2             Language Arts
1.1.2.3             Mathematics
1.1.2.4             Science
1.1.2.6             Social Studies
1.1.3           Textbooks and Instructional Matierals          IJ
1.1.4           In-Service Teacher Training                        ._-__
1.2         Infrastructure Support
1.2.1           School Rehabilitation and Expansion (4 schools
each in three phases)
2        Institutional Strengthening and Project Management
2.1         School Information Systems
2.2         Budget Planning Strengthening
2.3         Management Strengthening
2.4         Public Awareness Campaign
2.5          Project Evaluation and Preparation of Phase II project
2.6          Project Management, Procurement Support and
Auditing                                                               . 
Annex Xl (2): Page 1



\ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~              ~ ~~~                ~ ~~~                ~ ~~~                ~ ~~~               ~ ~~~               ~~~~                ~~~~               ~~~~               ~~~                ~~~               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i



IBRD 25723
8                            ~~~~~~~~~~60 ,Morowhonc                                                                   iR   52
PMABARUMA                                                                                 8
<(I           <                                                      GGUYANA
'IV                  ~~~~~~PIORT        Kk
<,             KAAITUMA                             ,ok
<</+  <;;   R.sge  C           Kwobonno          CHARITY
-OWAKAIMA                   P,c,ersgil.   ANNA REGINA
ADVENTURE        ,,
SUPENARM        ) , qO'E
_4                            O                   t  9 GEORG~~~~0ETOWN
ESSEQUIBO           (I
WALESt  M) >2HAHAICA
Mi..           VREEN    SOECCUS\  BLSH LOT
(0PeArRTICAOGUIGNOA    NEW AMSTERDAM
0       AA.- ~~~~~~~~~~~~0s                                            oeH.11
KURCIP,NOECERON                                                                            W
L NDEN           NIERROA
C) Yccrol O                                          /                               MARA         COPRVERTON
SSANG             |     MC KENZ E    FRIENDSH6                  Skeldo
\EBINI
\                                 1/           1            /_0 ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PARAD'SE  
LANDING
MAHDA                             OKWAKWANI
i           / ~~~HOLh^IGOO)
KURUPUKARI
MAPUR I
LANDING
-%\                /                       / S ~~~U R I N A M E
/       /                        , URIAM
The  boundaries,  colors.
denominations and  any
other inform-tion shown
4      -   PRIMARY ROADS                                                                                   on  th,s  mop   do   not
imply,  an  the  part of
SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                 The World  Bank  Group,
any judgment on the legal
TRACKS                                                                                         status  of any  territory.
or any endorsemnent
RAILROADS                                                                                      or accepntan     of such
NATIONAL CAPITAL                            -Kobonomo                                          boundaries.
0   TOWNS
+   INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT        LET EM
RIVERS
REGION BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
WICHABA / 0{
MILES                                    ASAO          
c    20        LI  CO 560                              AISHALTON
KILOMETERS
sO~~ r LUMIDPAU
PANAMAM         GUYANA
/    |VENEZUELA       et                                                                                     f
7 COLUMB IA
ECUDO         Area of MopAZ      
BRAZ IL
C   P E R U j BOLRiAZA
MARCH 1994









IMAGING
Report No:      14997 GUA
Type: SAR



