                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 32723

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (IDA-28790 PPFI-P8580)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR11.8 MILLION
                             (US$17.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF GUYANA

                                         FOR THE

                         SECONDARY SCHOOL REFORM PROJECT




                                       June 24, 2005




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit for the Caribbean
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2004)

                                Currency Unit = Guyanese Dollar (G$)
                                       G$1.00 = US$ 0.005025
                                     US$ 1.00 = G$199.00

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 to     December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BEAMS    Basic Education Access, Management Support Program
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CHS      Community High School
CIMAT    Curriculum, Instructional Materials and Assessment Team
CPCE     Cyril Potter College of Education
CXC      Caribbean Examinations Council
DfID     (British) Department for International Development
EFA-FTI  Education for All-Fast Track Initiative
EMIS     Education Management Information System
ERS      Emergency Repair School
GEAP     Guyana Education Access Project
GOG      Government of Guyana
GSS      General Secondary School
IDA      International Development Association
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
IT       Information Technology
MOE      Ministry of Education
MOF      Ministry of Finance
NCERD    National Centre for Education Resources Development
NTFE     National Third Form Exam
PRMPO    Poverty Reduction and Public Management Operation
PT       Primary Top (Secondary Department of Primary School)
PTA      Parent Teacher Association
REdO     Regional Education Officer
RExO     Regional Executive Officer
RMT      Reform Management Team
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SIAC     School Improvement Advisory Committee
SIMAP    Social Impact Amelioration Program
SIMS     School Information Management System
SIP      School Improvement Plan
SSRP     Secondary School Reform Project
TA       Technical Assistance
UG       University of Guyana
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund

   Vice President:  Pamela Cox
 Country Director   Caroline Anstey
   Sector Director  Evangeline Javier
  Sector Manager    Eduardo Velez
Task Team Leader:   Angela Demas

                                           GUYANA
                              GY- SECONDARY EDUCATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            21
6. Sustainability                                                                24
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 25
8. Lessons Learned                                                               27
9. Partner Comments                                                              29
10. Additional Information                                                       29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             34
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42
Annex 8. Partner Comments                                                        44
Annex 9. The Three Types of Schools Offering Secondary Education                 48

Project ID: P007269                                                  Project Name: GY- SECONDARY EDUCATION
Team Leader: Angela Demas                                            TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 24, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: GY- SECONDARY EDUCATION                                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-28790; PPFI-P8580
   Country/Department: GUYANA                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Secondary education (30%); Primary education (30%); Central
                            government administration (24%); Tertiary education (9%);
                            Sub-national government administration (7%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Social
                            analysis and monitoring (S); Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/24/1995                                     Effective: 12/17/1996                12/17/1996
     Appraisal: 01/10/1996                                         MTR: 11/01/1999                  11/01/1999
      Approval: 06/11/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF GUYANA / MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Paul Isenman
Sector Director:                Evangeline Javier                              Julian F. Schweitzer
Team Leader at ICR:             Angela Demas                                   Hideki Mori
ICR Primary Author:             Angela Demas


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The primary objective of the Secondary School Reform Project (SSRP) was to initiate a long-term,
multi-phased education reform program to improve quality, relevance, equity and efficiency of secondary
education in Guyana. More specifically, the project aimed to (i) develop measures to improve the quality
and efficiency of lower secondary education and test them at a limited number of schools in order to gain
acceptance before extending the reform to the rest of the system; (ii) improve the school environment by
supporting rehabilitation and repair of schools; and (iii) enhance the ability of national and regional
institutions to design, plan for, and implement sustainable education reforms.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had three main components.

COMPONENT I: Educational Program Quality (US$3.0 million or 16 percent of total project costs)


The objectives of this component were to (i) introduce decentralized, cost-effective, sustainable, integrated,
school-based quality improvements; and (ii) develop, test, and implement more relevant multi-level common
curricula in four core subjects for the lower secondary level (Grades 7-9, also know as Forms I-III).

Quality improvements would be concentrated and tested at 12 schools selected by the Government
representing the three different types of secondary school streams that make up the secondary school
system in Guyana and all 11 geographic regions plus Georgetown. The three types of secondary schools
include Primary Tops (PT), primary schools with a secondary department offering three years of lower
secondary education; Community High Schools (CHS) with a more vocational orientation; and General
Secondary Schools (GSS) with full academic secondary curricula and the opportunity to take higher-level
exams (see Annex 9 for additional information).

These 12 schools would serve as pilot schools. At each one, a School Improvement Plan (SIP),
incorporating school-based management concepts, would be prepared and implemented in accordance with
guidelines and budget advice provided by the central Ministry of Education (MOE) and the regional
administrations. The new core curricula would be tested in pilot schools, revised accordingly and new
curriculum guides would eventually be distributed to all secondary schools in Guyana.

Pilot schools would receive project inputs in the form of:
    (i) newly developed multi-level curricula in four core subjects for Grades 7-9;
    (ii) increased availability of textbooks and other instructional materials and equipment;
    (iii) in-service training of teachers for delivering the curriculum effectively and efficiently;
    (iv) training and support of principals in effective school management, including educational
    leadership and community mobilization.

Additionally, given the severely dilapidated condition of many of the pilot schools, rehabilitation of school
facilities and acquisition of furniture were to be supported under the School Environment component in
order to adequately support the implementation of the improved educational program. Thus, they would
receive a combination of quality improvements plus infrastructure improvements.



                                                       - 2 -

COMPONENT II: School Environment (US$13.2 million or 69 percent of total project costs)

The objective of this component was to upgrade facilities to improve the conditions for learning and to
make the school and classroom environment more attractive to all students. Teaching equipment would be
supplied to the pilot schools. The School Environment component consisted of the following two
subcomponents:

A. Pilot Schools (US$7.2 million): To improve the educational environment in the pilot schools, the project
would support (i) school building rehabilitation and renovation, (ii) extension of buildings, (iii) construction
of multi-purpose science and computer laboratories, and (iv) acquisition of furniture.

B. Emergency School Repair (US$6.0 million): The project would reserve funds for emergency repair
works at non-pilot secondary schools based on the needs for: (a) structural repairs (structural frame,
foundations and walls); (b) roof repairs including weather-proofing, insulation and sound reduction; (c)
life-safety provisions including stairs; and (d) essential repairs of utility systems, including the electrical
system, potable water distribution, sewerage and toilet blocks. Repair needs would be assessed through the
Nationwide Physical Facilities Survey and transparent criteria, agreeable to IDA, would be determined to
select secondary schools to be supported. Criteria would include: (i) repair needs identified through the
Survey; (ii) student enrollment; (iii) history of repair work in recent years; (iv) regional equity; and (v)
urban-rural equity. The 12 pilot schools would not be eligible to participate since the upgrading of their
physical facilities would be addressed through the first subcomponent.

COMPONENT III: National and Regional Institutional Strengthening (US$2.5 million or 13 percent
of total project costs)

To enhance the ability of national and regional institutions to design, plan for, and implement sustainable
education reforms, this component was designed to support the improvement of education sector
performance through a number of interventions. It also supported the establishment of an "SSRP
Secretariat" that would function as the Project Implementation Unit.

A. Strengthening of budget planning. The project would support the development and implementation of
new budgeting guidelines, which would treat individual schools as a basic planning unit and establish
rational and clear resource allocation criteria (i.e., formula based). To strengthening organization and
management, the project would support the development and implementation of strategies to improve
overall effectiveness of education administration.

B. Nationwide physical facility survey. In order to assist the Government in identifying capital investment
priorities and carrying out resource planning, the project would support a detailed nation-wide survey of
secondary school infrastructure to be completed during the first year of project implementation.

C. School information system. The project would support the continuation of the School Mapping
Exercise, and would finance the establishment of the School Information System (SIS), which would be a
permanent mechanism to compile, process and store information on: (a) individual students (b) student
learning outcomes assessed on a sample or census basis; (c) teachers and staff; (d) teaching methods and
curricula; (e) textbooks, other instructional materials, equipment, and furniture; (f) school sites and
buildings; and (g) communities and school catchment areas.

D. Social awareness campaigns. A social awareness campaign (SAC) would be financed under the project


                                                        - 3 -

to: (i) properly assess and reflect the views and concerns of stake-holders in the reform process; and (ii)
inform the public about reform objectives, benefits, implementation strategies and progress made. The SAC
would employ press releases, discussions on TV and radio, newsletters, other media, community
workshops, national conferences, and retreats for decision makers.

E. Preparation of Phase II Project. As the initial phase of a long-term secondary education reform, the
proposed project would support the preparation of a second-phase project. A Phase II project would: (i)
provide direct assistance to a larger number of schools in implementing the curricula of four core subjects
and supporting school-based management; (ii) develop and support the implementation of curricula for
subjects not covered by the project (Phase I project); and (iii) introduce reform measures at the
upper-secondary level (Grades 10 and 11).

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The project's Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory based on: (i) the
consistency of its objectives with those of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the Government's
priority for developing its human resources, and the education sector's policies; (ii) good project design that
reflected lessons learned from previous projects and donor experiences; and (iii) demonstrated commitment
by the government. In 1994 when project preparation commenced, the Government was seeking assistance
from IDA in the process of reforming its secondary education system to improve quality, relevance, and
equity for the poorest segment of the student population.

The objectives of the project were consistent with the 1993 CAS which called for assisting, "the
Government in refocusing and strengthening the public sector to improve delivery of public services,
especially human resources development, (b) to play a catalytic role in developing sector strategies and
policies...(c) to support the rehabilitation of education facilities," and complement the primary education
project financed by the InterAmerican Development Bank (IDB). The objectives as stated in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) were realistic, achievable, and fully supportive of the country's education sector
policies. In keeping with lessons learned, the project architecture was not too ambitious or complex, with
three main axes responding to the reform objectives and policy concerns: education quality and relevance,
equitable distribution of educational opportunities and resources, and institutional efficiency. There was no
need to revise the project objectives during the course of implementation. The project description was found
well written, precise and relevant enough to sustain planning and implementation over the life of the
project. The size of the credit (SDR11.8 million equivalent to US$17.3 million) was adequate and adapted
to Guyana's limited borrowing capacity. Most of the monitoring indicators included in the SAR were
descriptive in nature emphasizing output, input and process indicators. Baselines and targets were not
formally included in the SAR for outcomes, however, the project corrected for this by collecting relevant
data in order to measure impact and outcome of activities. Financial and procurement annexes were clear
and precise, allowing for easier project monitoring at implementation. The Environmental Assessment
determined the project to be Category C. While safeguard procedures required by the Bank were less
rigorous at the time of preparation, the project design specifically catered to equitable distribution of
benefits targeting the poorest communities. The Government's commitment to ensure regional equity and
urban-rural equity was reflected in its insistence to reach all 11 regions, including those remote hinterland
regions where there is traditionally a higher concentration of the Amerindian population.




                                                       - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. Overall, the SSRP initiated an education reform program that has improved
the quality, relevance, equity, and efficiency of secondary education in Guyana. The project objectives
established in the SAR continue to be relevant and consistent with the education policies being implemented
by the MOE as detailed in the Education Strategic Plan 2003-07. The specific outcomes are detailed
below.

A. To develop measures to improve the quality and efficiency of lower secondary education and test
them at a limited number of schools in order to gain acceptance before extending the reform to the
rest of the system:

This objective was successfully achieved. The SSRP's effort towards quality improvement focused on
measurable increases in learning. A final evaluation of the SSRP's implementation performed by an
independent consultant indicated that "the effort at quality improvement within SSRP exhibits much that
could be called best practice in 'standards based reform'." All of the inputs and processes: curriculum,
training, textbooks, supervision, incentives were aligned towards achievement of specific learning goals and
were developed according to measurable standards. According to the Ministry of Education, the curriculum
training was well adapted to most of teachers' levels of qualification and the challenging needs of learners
in Guyana. Teachers spoke favorably of the curriculum guides, which proved to be well targeted towards
classroom practice and learning goals. Improvements in national level exam scores and the sharp increase
in the number of secondary students writing the Caribbean Examination Council (CXC) exam (30 percent
increase nationwide from 1996 to 2004) show the positive impact that national adoption of the curriculum
guides produced, with support from SSRP, on the quality of learning and on student achievement.

Transition towards a unified General Secondary Schools (GSS) model. At project design, the Ministry
of Education was concerned that Primary Tops (PT, primary schools plus three years of lower secondary
education) and Community High Schools (CHS) did not have the same quality requirements and were not
conducive to the same quality achievements as the GSS. The most disadvantaged students tended to be
concentrated in the poorest quality schools, which posed equity concerns. Moreover, the `tri system'
complicated the management and supervision practices of secondary education.

The project has been successful in transforming all pilot schools into General Secondary Schools (GSS),
leading the way for a more general unification of secondary institutions at the country level. The GSS
provide full access to grades 7 to 11 in a single institution, allowing for easier access from lower to upper
secondary, and greater synergies between teachers and students around the entire secondary level unified
curricula.

The SSRP has achieved, through the 12 pilot schools experiment, the conversion of three Primary Tops
(PT) and seven Community High Schools (CHS) into General Secondary Schools. This achievement was
realized through a complementary approach focusing a variety of project activities on the completion of this
objective, including: new unified curriculum at lower and upper secondary levels, harmonized teacher
training, and civil works and classroom extension to ensure safe facilities that fit with the GSS curriculum.
The transition from lower to upper secondary has been facilitated through the NTFE exam. The
Government is now attempting to transform all secondary schools into a single GSS model. Student
enrollment by type of secondary education institution provides evidence that the transformation towards a
unified model has occurred on a large scale over the life of the project (80 percent increase in GSS



                                                      - 5 -

enrollment between 1995 and 2004). Taking the 1994-95 academic year as the project start baseline and
comparing with the 2002-03 academic year, PT enrollment has declined from 14,000 to 10,600; CHS has
remained constant at about 9,200; and GSS has increased from 28,000 to 44,000 students. In this policy
area, the pilot schools have likely served as a useful laboratory for enlarging the access to secondary
education through the development of General Secondary Schools.

Percentage of students taking the CXC Exams. By expanding access to secondary schooling through
infrastructure improvements at the 12 pilots and converting the curriculum at Primary Tops and
Community High Schools to the General Secondary School curriculum, more students were able to attend
secondary school, stay in school longer, and write exams than previously possible (Figure 1). Between
1996 and 2004 there was more than an 83 percent increase in the number of CXC subject exams taken in
the Pilot Schools. Over the same period, there was also a steady increase in the number of CXC subject
exams taken nationwide, although this growth was slower than in the Pilot Schools. National CXC exam
growth reached 30 percent in 2004 (Figure 2). The pilot school population represents about 11.5 percent
of the total number of students enrolled in secondary schools in Guyana, yet the pilot schools contributed
more than 19 percent to the overall improvement in national trends. Year 2003 appears to be an aberrant
year for both the pilot schools and nation-wide, though in opposite directions. The extended industrial
action (teachers' strike) that took place during 2003, may explain the dip in the number of pilot school
exams taken that year. Students may not have felt prepared enough to write the CXC since they had
missed a significant number of school days. The national trend in 2003 could be a reflection of invalid data.
The following year follows more closely with the trend line.


        Figure 1: Number of CXC Subject                            Figure 2: Percentage Change in
      Exams Taken Nationally and for Pilot                       Number of CXC Exams Taken with
                 Schools, 1996-2004                                         Base Year 1996
 45000                                               4000    100%

 40000                                                       90%
                                                     3500
 35000                                                       80%
                                                     3000    70%
 30000                                               2500    60%
 25000
                                                     2000    50%
 20000
                                                             40%
 15000                                               1500
                                                             30%
 10000                                               1000
                                                             20%
  5000                                               500
                                                              10%
      0                                              0        0%
                                                                  1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
      1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004


              National                  All Pilot Schools             National              All Pilot Schools




Figure 3 shows the number of students in Form V (Grade 11) at the pilot schools who wrote the CXC exam
as a fraction of the number of students enrolled in Form V at the beginning of the school year. The General
Secondary Schools, Annandale and Mackenzie, maintained near universal CXC submissions throughout the
2000-2004 period. The former Primary Tops schools, Uitvlugt, Tucville, and L'Aventure, show a
remarkable increase in the percentage of students in Form V who write the CXC. In the 2000-2001 school
year only 56 percent of students who began the year wrote the exam, but by 2003-2004, this figure climbed



                                                            - 6 -

to 81 percent. The number of students of former CHS schools taking the CXC also has steadily increased
each year, but it has not kept up with the large increase in students enrolled or surviving through fifth form
at the CHS, thus the trend shows a decline even though the numbers have been increasing. In 2000, 268
students at former CHSs out of 331 students took the exam, and by 2003, students surviving through Form
V grew to 521 of which 321 took the exam. Encouragement to take the CXC is a practice that could be
emphasized more in the former CHS. Overall, since 2000-01, when all pilot schools began taking the
CXC, the number of Pilot School CXC writers has increased from a total of 519 students out of 623 Form
V students to 640 out of 848 Form V students in 2004.


             Figure 3: Percentage of Fifth Form Students who Write the CXC
    120%

    100%

     80%
                                                                                                  GSS Average
     60%                                                                                          CHS Average
     40%                                                                                          PT Average

     20%

       0%
                2000-01             2001-02           2002-03            2003-04




Exam Performance. Figures 4 and 5 explore performance on the CXC exams in the pilot schools
compared to the national average. Scoring of the CXC exam ranges from Grades I-VI, with marks of I-IV
as passing and V and VI as failing. It should be noted that the national average comprises General
Secondary Schools and select Community High Schools that offer the CXC. The graphs separate out the
performance on the CXC by pilot school type ­ PT, CHS, and GSS. It appears that achievement levels of
students are improving in each group of schools, however, the ex CHS and PT schools understandably still
lag behind the GSS and national GSS average. It will not be until 2006 or 2007 when a cohort will have
had the benefit of the new curriculum from Form I through to Form V. The two General Secondary Pilot
Schools, Annandale and Mackenzie, continue to outperform the national average consistently. While the
pass rates for the Grades I ­ IV improve at roughly the same rate nationally as in the General Secondary
Pilot Schools (Figure 4), it is clear from Figure 5 that there are increasingly more students scores at the
GSS pilot schools qualifying for the higher level pass Grades I ­ III compared with the national average.
Mackenzie High School, a sixth form school that started out with a 20.5 percent CXC pass rate for Grades
I-III in 1996, improved to 85 percent in 2001, and in 2003 was up to 92 percent. An accomplishment of
the SSRP program is that eight secondary schools (five Community High Schools, and three Primary Tops)
that formerly had no CXC candidates began offering the CXC exam in 2001. These schools show a slow
but mostly steady increase in grade I ­ IV pass rates between 2001 and 2004 when all pilots began
participating in the CXC. Prior to 2001, the CHS registered a volatile performance from year to year. It is
important to note that the national average pass rates for Grades I ­ III and Grades I ­ IV have been
steadily increasing as well. This is a positive indicator and is likely to be at least in part due to the national
standards-based curriculum developed, tested, and implemented nationally by the SSRP program and the
creation of annual regional and national standardized exams.




                                                      - 7 -

         Figure 4: Percent of CXC Exams                            Figure 5: Percent of Exams
            Passed (Gr I - IV) 1996-2004                           Passed (Gr I - III) 1996-2004
       Nationally and by Pilot School Type                    Nationally and by Pilot School Type
    100                                                   100
     90                                                    90
     80                                                    80
     70                                                    70
     60                                                    60
     50                                                    50
     40                                                    40
     30                                                    30
     20                                                    20
     10                                                    10
     0                                                      0


      1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004          1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004

                GSS                 CHS                                    GSS                CHS

                PT                  National                               PT                 National



The National Third Form Exam (NTFE), offered in Grade 9, was developed by the SSRP as part of the
secondary school reform measures and was implemented for the first time in 2001. In measuring student
performance during project implementation, the CXC is the main criterion used to assess the impact of the
project on quality outcomes. In the longer term, the NTFE is expected to become more important for the
Government to assess student performance at the end of the lower secondary cycle, thereby allowing for
remedial actions to be taken in Grades 10 onwards to increase the success rate of students at the upper
secondary levels. In Pilot Schools, trends in average NTFE performance in English and math are generally
a few points lower than the national average. Scores in Language Arts are consistently about 10 points
higher than those in math, but both are low. One of the reasons behind the low scores on the NTFE
subjects is due to a high proportion of students/teachers not submitting student projects by the deadline.
These projects ­ essays and portfolios ­ are worth 25 percent of the total NTFE score and there is evidence
that many of the Pilot Schools either did not submit their projects or submitted them after the deadline,
resulting in a zero for that part of the test score. This makes it difficult to analyze real performance. When
controlling for the Project part of the exam, both national and pilot school scores are stagnant for math, and
scores for English tend to fluctuate by a few points, but mostly following an upward trend.

Low scores on the NTFE suggests that there is a need for better quality-assurance in the delivery of the
exam and in the delivery of the educational curriculum nation-wide. Decreases at pilot schools could be
attributed to a number of reasons including, the physical displacement of schools due to school
infrastructure improvements, the teacher strike in 2003 when children were out of school for about six
weeks, and a drop off in pedagogical supervision after 2001 when the regional offices were supposed to
gradually increase their role and take over from the SSRP Secretariat who had been working intensively
with the pilot schools up until that time. On this last point it is notable that the Ministry took the decision
to cancel an Education Quality consultancy that it had been in the process of procuring for over a year
because it was thought that the MOE did not need this extra support. Instead, the funds were shifted to
help cover the unbudgeted expense of asbestos removal at the Emergency Repairs Schools. In hindsight,
the consultancy more than likely would have strengthened the quality measures already established by the



                                                       - 8 -

SSRP at the time.

Survival rate. The student survival rate through Forms I-III averages almost 100 percent at pilot schools.
Focusing on student survival from lower to upper secondary school, early project data from 1997 show that
about 91 percent of pilot school students made the transition from Form III to Form IV. At project-end
(2004), the average was 92 percent. While the survival rate from Form III to IV has improved from project
beginning to end, it should be noted that pilot schools had their best performance in 2000 with about a 97
percent average for that year. After training and supply of teaching materials for the transition to GSS,
accompanied by newly refurbished school facilities, all pilot schools began offering Form V (Grade 11).
Survival rates were tracked beginning in 2000 with a baseline survival of 95 percent. By 2004, survival
was maintained at about 94 percent.

Some dips in the survival rate during implementation could be a consequence of the sharp increase in
enrollment at the pilot schools in the 2000-01 school year. As all pilot schools are located in the poorest
areas, a greater number of academically lower achieving students have been enrolled, who have lesser
chances and motivation for writing the CXC exam at the end of Form V and have a higher tendency to
drop-out of Form IV. It was also learned in the ICR mission that small declines in student survival could be
attributed to the increase in teacher pressure on students to drop out if they will not score a Grade III or
higher on the CXC exam.

B. To improve the school environment by supporting rehabilitation and repair of schools.

This objective was achieved satisfactorily. The outcome includes not only the improved learning and
school physical environment at 12 pilot schools and 18 Emergency Repair Schools (ERS), but also a more
equitable distribution of educational opportunities to students living in all regions of Guyana. Much of the
growth in enrollment was facilitated by increases in the number of classrooms available in the schools as a
result of the School Environment component of the project. Overall, physical improvements at the pilot
schools and their conversion to GSS have resulted in a 39 percent increase in enrollment at the 12 pilots
from 1996 to 2003, thus providing 2,029 more children access to general secondary schools and the full
benefits of the lower and upper secondary education curriculum. The most dramatic enrollment increases
occurred in the former Primary Tops schools (Table 1), which are located in poor and populous districts (in
Georgetown and nearby Region 3) with previously limited access to secondary schools, in particular to
upper secondary. The Dolphin School registered an exceptionally lower enrollment in 2003, due to ongoing
civil works at the nearby Charlestown School (one of the ERS). The two schools shared the Dolphin
School facility and operated on split shifts at that time.




                                                       - 9 -

Table 1: Change in Number of Classrooms and Enrollment in Pilot Schools, 1995-2003
                                                    # Classrooms +
                                                         other                  Enrollment
                                   School School Before After
                                   Type     Type Rehab Rehab                               Enrollment
Pilot Schools             Region   1996     2004 (1996)    (2001)     1995    2001   2003   Change
COTTON FIELD                 2      CHS     GSS         23      34    739     1006   1015          37%
BELLADRUM                    5      CHS     GSS          6      22    614      577    636           4%
FORT WELLINGTON              5      CHS     GSS          8      12    160      389    369         131%
MANCHESTER                   6      CHS     GSS         11      19    361      404    430          19%
VRYMAN'S ERVEN               6      CHS     GSS         15      19    406      620    563          39%
DOLPHIN                     GT      CHS     GSS         21      24    721      633    639         -11%
CAMPBELLVILLE               GT      CHS     GSS          5      18    560      656    937          67%
ANNANDALE                    2      GSS     GSS         22      23    580      558    583           1%
MACKENZIE                   10      GSS     GSS         24      26    657      540    591         -10%
L'AVENTURE                   3      PT      GSS          5      13      50     440    492         884%
UITVLUGT                     3      PT      GSS          2      10    150      592    569         279%
TUCVILLE                    GT      PT      GSS          5      13    250      510    453          81%
TOTAL                                                  147     233   5248     6925   7277          39%



The completion of emergency repairs at 18 secondary school facilities has provided space for 12,440
secondary students based on the MOE standard for number of students per classroom and square feet per
student. This represents an increase of over 3,000 new student places spread out among the 18 schools.
All regions, including the poorest, most isolated hinterland regions benefitted, as there was at least one ERS
school located in each region plus Georgetown.

C. To enhance the ability of national and regional institutions to design, plan for, and implement
sustainable education reforms.

The outcome of this objective was partially satisfactory. The project supported a variety of interventions
and technical inputs designed to improve education sector performance, including planning for
infrastructure improvements and budget management, developing a school information system, and
building a social awareness campaign. There was limited success in some interventions (budget
management and school information system), nevertheless the MOE has benefitted from the experience and
lessons learned as they are continuing to move in the right direction. It is recognized by the MOE that
improved system management is an essential element for the retention and growth of the curriculum and
education quality reforms initiated under the SSRP. For this reason, the MOE continues to strive to
improve education management and institute policy change that will introduce clear roles at the central and
regional levels with emphasis on supervision and accountability at the regional and local levels. A
component under the Basic Education Access, Management Support Program (BEAMS) financed by the
InterAmerican Development Bank (IDB) was specifically designed to continue efforts made under the
SSRP and other projects in strengthening management support. The final evaluation of the SSRP has
helped to highlight some areas where the management system could continue to be strengthened. It is
fortunate that there are many persons within the education system (especially those participating at the pilot
schools and in the National Centre for Education Resources Development, NCERD) who have been
well-trained at the regional and local school management level who could serve as resource people within
the Ministry to assist in the continuation of the reforms.




                                                     - 10 -

The project was successful in instituting the concept of the School Improvement Plan (SIP), which was
highly innovative for the Guyana context. Now widely recognized for its success and relative ease to
implement, the SIP serves as a tool for school communities to systematically plan, budget, and manage
discretionary funds that have impact and fill immediate educational needs at the local level. It has become
a national requirement that all schools (primary and secondary) produce a SIP by year 2007.

Over a two year period, 2001-02, a highly qualified consultant in education budget and finance completed
three missions to Guyana and delivered a multi-phased report, which established a framework for
appropriating yearly budget allocations to the ten regions. This report represents an essential matrix for the
MOE in developing a new approach to decentralized financing. It is also being used by the BEAMS project
in supporting the implementation of a new coordinated EMIS/education budget financing system in
Guyana. Nevertheless, the financing scheme could not be readily implemented because of the lack of
precise and timely information on unit and per capita costs in the ten regions. Information on these costs
vary from one region to the other and among the three levels of education. While the piloting of the
financing-formula was not fully realized, the MOE now has the step by step guidance offered in the study
and the infrastructure in place (school boards and mentoring institution) to complete the testing of the
formula-based budgeting process and school-based management of funds. The Bank supported Poverty
Reduction and Public Management Operation (PRPMO) under preparation would continue to support this
effort.

The Nationwide Physical Facilities Survey was completed satisfactorily in the first years of the project and
provides a tool for the Ministry in planning and resource allocation for school replacement, rehabilitation,
and repair. The results of the survey included detailed information on the physical status of each secondary
school and the surrounding communities that it serves. It also established school design guidelines,
prototype drawings and specific criteria to determine eligibility and for prioritizing selection of schools for
refurbishment based on various factors.

The main goal of the School Information Systems subcomponent was to develop and implement an
Educational Management Information System (EMIS), which would be a permanent mechanism to manage
information about students, teachers, curricula, student performance, timetabling, and attendance to
support the decision making processes at the Ministry and regional offices. After an initial analysis where
the main information requirements were identified in consultation with Ministry officials, teachers and
regional officers, the MOE acquired an integrated system with two different modules: EMS (Education
Management System) to be implemented at the central and regional levels and SIMS (School Information
Management System) to be implemented at the pilot schools. In addition, in order to install and operate the
software, the Ministry bought and installed computer equipment (server/computer, printer and UPS) at 10
regions plus Georgetown and the 12 pilot schools. After three years of implementation, the overall advances
came slowly. The experience achieved during the process, however, will be very important for the future
information systems projects at the Ministry.

While the project was able to support production of a school information management system targeting
both the central and regional levels and the school level, its utilization was not fully realized due to several
complex reasons: (i) excellent software, but it was too sophisticated for the context and not customized
enough for the end user; (ii) the maintenance contract was expensive and support from the developer was
not at the level expected; (iii) the culture of computer use to replace manual processes is still very slow to
catch on; (iv) more intensive training at the school and regional level was needed; (v) incentives for using
the system were not in place (policy for reporting data electronically and providing feedback never
established); and (vi) the loss of key Management Information Staff (MIS) occurred at a critical time in
software training. Overall the subcomponent was able to show some success with the student information


                                                     - 11 -

and personnel modules. All pilot schools have entered student and personnel data into the software and are
able to use the systems to maintain and manage the data electronically. A few of the pilots have
demonstrated that they are fully utilizing the system as intended. At the regional level the personnel module
has been employed through the assistance of the Information Technology (IT) officers assigned to the
regional offices. The MOE now has a dedicated MIS team at the central level and in the regional offices
which should continue to be very useful for the ministry.

The SSRP's Social Awareness Campaign could serve as a best practice in designing and executing a
communications strategy. The outcome was that the entire country, even in the remotest areas, knew about
the secondary education reform. As parents and community members learned more about education
quality, they became more active and also demanded more for their childrens' education, thereby instituting
some form of accountability at the local level. The awareness campaign also supported the consultation
process, which the Ministry of Education regularly employs, as demonstrated in the development process of
the Education Strategic Plan. The campaign helped generate enthusiasm for the reforms that were
undertaken. As teachers, parents, and students from non-pilot schools learned about the advances made
(for example, the curriculum and teachers' guides, educational training, and school management training for
improving the quality of education), they too wanted those inputs and services. This helped the pilot school
experience to spread more widely in Guyana.

4.2 Outputs by components:

COMPONENT I: Education Program Quality (US$2.84 million executed)

ICR Rating: Satisfactory.

This component surpassed its original output goals. The Ministry's emphasis on achieving the objective of
Universal Secondary Education (USE) has been supported by the SSRP. Through the 12 pilot schools, the
SSRP successfully transformed three former Primary Tops and seven former Community High Schools
into General Secondary Schools that offer the full secondary school curriculum with all schools providing
instruction through Form V (Grade 11), including two through Form VI (Grade 12). It has been
demonstrated by the SSRP that given the opportunity, through exposure and access to the General
Secondary School (GSS) curriculum, primary school leavers who would normally have entered a Primary
Top (PT) or Community High School (CHS) because of their aptitude level, will perform and benefit from
the learning opportunities that are afforded at the GSS.

Introduction of a Common Curriculum, Textbooks, Instructional Materials, and Equipment. In close
cooperation with the Guyana Education Access Project (GEAP) financed by the Department for
International Development (DFID) and the School Books Distribution Project financed by the UNDP, the
SSRP managed to extend the curriculum reform to the entire secondary and upper secondary level (Grades
7 to 11), in five core subject areas and many additional elective subject areas.

For each of the five core subjects (English, Mathematics, Science, Social Studies, and Reading),
Curriculum, Instructional Materials and Assessment Teams (CIMAT) were established and they produced
and tested quality new curricula, as well as curriculum guides and teachers guides. Each CIMAT was
comprised of two senior subject specialists and seven subject matter practicing teachers. By mobilizing the
best of the pedagogical competences available in Guyana and regrouping them into efficient and well
conducted subject reform-oriented curriculum workshops, the reform has had a real quality impact on
classroom teaching. After this methodology proved to be efficient for the five core subject areas, the
Ministry of Education decided to extend the same reform mechanism to all curriculum areas at the



                                                    - 12 -

secondary education level, including upper secondary. The GEAP worked closely with the SSRP and
applied the same methodology to additional curriculum subject areas (science) and grades. The reformed
curricula for Grades 7-9 were extended to the entire nation, through distribution of teaching materials and
continuous teacher training in use of the resources and in implementing best practice (the SSRP also
provided training to teachers outside the pilot schools). This expansion was in response to a growing
number of individual parents and teachers who requested that the new curricula materials be implemented
at their schools.

The National Centre for Education Resources Development (NCERD) printed all curriculum materials,
including testing forms and curriculum implementation supervision with funds provided by the project. This
intervention financed the printing and distribution of curriculum and teachers guides in the initial five
curriculum areas. The SSRP also procured textbooks, basic library books, teaching and learning materials
as specified by CIMAT, for each subject area to equip pilot school students and teachers with adequate
curricular resources. In most cases, more than one textbook in a subject area was selected to allow schools
to choose among alternative texts to promote different program emphases. The UNDP-funded Textbook
Project also financed the provision of textbooks needed as the reform reached additional subject areas and
grades.

In total, 1,000 copies of the National Curriculum Guides in the five core subjects and 1,000 copies of the
five, draft non-core guides for Grades 7 to 9 were completed, printed and distributed to all secondary-age
schools. The testing, printing and distribution of Teachers' Guides in the core subjects for Grades 7, 8 and
9 were also completed. (See Section 10 for a list of the guides and other SSRP publications.) On school
visits during the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission, it was noticed that some teachers were
not using the guides while others were using them. It appeared that more careful targeting of inexperienced
teachers was needed, as in some cases, they tended to see the guides as making them work harder rather
than as a tool to assist teachers with design and delivery of lessons. In other cases, schools had not made
the guides they received widely available. To address this problem, project resources were used to put all
the guides on CD and distribute 225 CD sets to Ministry authorities, regional offices and individual schools
so they could have a master set and make their own copies. There have been improvements in
national-level exam scores, potentially due to the national adoption of the curriculum guides produced with
support from the SSRP. It is likely that the guidebooks have had some impact on student achievement and
teacher performance for secondary-age schools.

Testing. The project developed and implemented a nation-wide diagnostic test at the end of Form III (the
National Third Form Exam/NTFE), allowing for skills and systematic knowledge measurement at the end
of lower secondary schooling. The purpose was to provide a standard examination whereby all ninth grade
students' performance could be compared across the country. Previously, only the Secondary School Exam
for Grade 9 was available, however, this exam was designed by each region and therefore did not allow for
comparison. Testing was designed by the SSRP Secretariat following state-of-the-art methodologies. The
NTFE was adopted and implemented at a national level in 2001.

The NTFE was managed and supervised during the first three years by the SSRP Secretariat and gradually,
the MOE took over the administration of the exam so that by project end it was fully budgeted and
managed by the Ministry of Education. The NTFE examination allowed for a consistent measurement of
students' performance and for determining at the school level where students might be best suited to for
upper secondary CXC-based specializations. Efficiency of the testing process however declined when data
collection became the responsibility of the regional institutions. The MOE Testing Unit has proven to have
the capacity to manage the flow of information and to provide testing data on time to NCERD and the
SSRP. However, most of the delays materialize at the Regional Education Offices level, which makes the


                                                     - 13 -

testing coverage incomplete at the macro level. From one remote hinterland region, the transfer of test
volumes was delayed by one year for logistical reasons (plane space availability). This quality examination
should be more carefully managed and preserved in the future.

From the user's point of view also, schools and parents have complained of not receiving feedback on their
own students' examination performances on time. In May 2004, the NTFE was administered in all lower
secondary schools, but as of September 2004 results were not yet made available to the principals of the
schools. As a result, some teachers were not able to fully diagnose strengths and deficiencies accordingly at
the end of the lower secondary learning cycle, although they had administered the test to their respective
classes.

Effective School management, teacher training, and community involvement. The project has been
very successful in producing guidelines for School Improvement Plans (SIP) and training secondary school
staff and communities on development of their own SIP. The SIP concept was ground-breaking and
innovative for the Guyana education system context. It allowed for school level accountability,
participation by the community and for local actors to become leaders in institutional change.

During the first years of the project, participation of the School Improvement Action Committees (SIAC),
the small committee of community members and faculty who are in charge of designing the SIP for their
school, was slow to take form. It took efforts from the Secretariat to make SIAC fully effective given that
parents were obviously not used to playing a role in school management. The training progressed and the
SIACs became more accustomed to their responsibilities. The SSRP project produced clear SIP guidelines.
At the start, the school management had difficulties in implementing decentralized and non bureaucratic
fund management practices, but later on, SIP management through SIAC ran smoothly. Two training teams
of six members each were put in place and provided systematic training and guidance in school supervision
and management skills to school principals and Head Masters. Training in financial and procurement
management were also provided (no procurement difficulties were found over the life of the SIP projects).
The Regional Education Development Officers (REdOs) were also involved in providing training and in
SIP technical monitoring. Today, schools and communities recognize that SIPs have contributed to making
them more accountable for their own resources and for taking school-based education initiatives even if
they are on a small scale.

Some 1,000 SIP manuals were distributed throughout the education system. All 12 pilot schools have been
instituting their SIPs for a number of years and updating them on an annual basis. Of the 18 ERS, about
nine have draft SIPs. The government agreement to provide counterpart funds for the SIPs, equivalent to
US$3 per student/year was fully implemented, and this simple per student allocation calculation basis
proved to be cost-effective. Based on the positive experience of SIPs under the SSRP, the Ministry of
Education has decided to scale up the program by using national core budgetary resources. The SIP
subcomponent was already financed from counterpart funds, which made this transition easier.       In a first
phase, the Ministry of Education decided to extend SIPs to all lower secondary schools in Georgetown
Municipality through its own budget resources, with initial technical assistance from the SSRP. It was
envisioned that the Regional Education Offices would be the main institution involved in SIPs extension
over all Regions. The ESP for 2003-2007 includes as a requirement that all schools (not just secondary
schools) should have a SIP by 2007. To support this effort, the BEAMS project, through a consultancy is
providing intensive training school-by-school and region-by-region so that the school communities and staff
will fully understand the purpose of the SIP, the proposal process, how to design a tailor-made SIP for their
school circumstances, and manage and implement it. The Education for All - Fast Track Initiative
(EFA-FTI) will also support the SIP effort by funding the SIP proposals that have been approved at the
primary school level.


                                                      - 14 -

COMPONENT II: School Environment (US$11.99 million executed)

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

Learning at most school facilities in Guyana had been seriously hindered by severe decay of buildings
which posed physical dangers, sanitation problems, and overcrowding in the urban areas. This component
was successful in assisting the Government to improve the school environment by supporting
comprehensive rehabilitation of 12 pilot schools and repairs at 18 ERS, as well as providing appropriate
school furniture and science laboratory and computer equipment. By the nature of its design, it also
managed to increase access to secondary school for children coming from some of the poorest communities
and ensure a more equitable distribution of educational opportunities by including schools from all Regions
plus Georgetown. In total, 30 schools were significantly improved by the project and now their facilities are
equipped to provide the full lower and upper general secondary school curriculum.

A. Pilot School Rehabilitation. Upgrading of the physical environment at 12 pilot schools has been
realized through comprehensive refurbishment, including reconstruction and extension of school buildings,
and through the provision of basic school furniture, science laboratory equipment, library books, and
computers for school laboratories and school management. While the overall results of the work performed
at the pilot schools was of satisfactory quality, there were some problems with diligence on supervision of
the works. Early on, some design flaws in the science laboratories and rainwater drainage were corrected
and applied as lessons learned for the design of the ERS. Feedback on parent, teacher, and student surveys
on improvements to physical facilities was mostly positive. The most common negative comment was
dissatisfaction with new sanitary facilities due to build up mineral deposit (rust color) in the sinks and
toilets which reflects on cleaning maintenance rather than a defect in the building. Another comment was
lack of a fence to keep animals and people out of the school yards. In response, the SSRP provided funds
and procured the fencing materials, and the Parent Teacher Associations (PTAs) agreed to provide the
labor since contractors had already left the sites.

Under the SSRP, the Design and Development of Secondary-Age Schools in Guyanawas prepared as a
manual to serve as a standard for physical public school facilities. Additionally, the continued care and
maintenance of school facilities was emphasized and a maintenance manual was designed for each Pilot
School. Training in the use of the manual and on how to conduct periodic maintenance surveys was
delivered on-site during a walk through of the new facilities so that Head Teachers or PTAs could continue
this practice on their own. Additionally, the BEAMS project is continuing to emphasize the importance of
maintenance and the inclusion of funds in the annual budget specifically for maintenance of physical
infrastructure.

Another important aspect of school expansion and rehabilitation to assist the government to reach its goal
of Universal Secondary Education, is the improved usage of school space. The Project completed a Space
Utilization Study to help the MOE more efficiently use space at existing school facilities. School visits
during missions revealed that classroom utilization was not being instituted at its maximum efficiency. The
Government and SSRP staff were reluctant to change the time-tabling scheme or rotation between
classrooms. Guyana follows the system of teacher rather than student rotation between classes, thus
leaving some classrooms unoccupied during certain periods when, for example, students participate in
laboratory activities. Simple solutions to student rotation, such as the provision of lockers for students
could be employed relatively inexpensively. Several aide memoires suggested using funds under this
subcomponent to test better space utilization at some of the pilot schools that were willing to try it, but this
recommendation was not put into action.


                                                      - 15 -

Some science laboratories and equipment seem to be underutilized as observed during the ICR mission and
perhaps too many were constructed per school. The fact that a majority of Guyanese students avoid
selecting the CXC science examination offered annually may partially explain lesser interest in the sciences
and low utilization of science labs. In 2003, only 4,706 students sat for all of the combined CSEC science
exams offered in comparison to over 7,700 student who sat for the English exam. As observed by the
evaluation consultant, in some schools libraries also do not seem to be fully utilized, however, there is
potential to change this as observed by the example of Uitvlugt where students are actively encouraged to
make regular visits to the library and are permitted to check out books, which works very well.

As mentioned under Section 4.1, the refurbished schools have not only allowed for an increase in
enrollment, but also more equitable access to the benefits of the curriculum offered at General Secondary
Schools and the opportunity to continue to higher secondary and tertiary education where this had not been
possible before. Approximately, 7,277 children are benefitting at the pilot schools.

B. Emergency Repair Schools. The civil works were achieved in two phases: Pilot schools and later
Emergency Repair Schools (ERS preliminary construction studies started around 2001). Due to the
condition of the ERS, the "emergency repairs" completed at 18 secondary schools were in essence much
more comprehensive than what emergency repair may connote. In some cases, entire school blocks were
gutted and rebuilt and in one case the entire building block was replaced due to its extensive deterioration.
In learning from the experience from the reconstruction of the pilot schools, the consultation process with
the communities and school officials was open and planned on a regular basis for the ERS. This was also
important in order to manage expectation regarding the extent of the works considering some buildings at a
school site might not be included in the scope of "emergency repair" works. Monthly site meetings proved
to be a very important aspect of implementation. They were useful for monitoring performance and were
also informative for non-technical people such as the school faculty, PTA, and REdOs who were regularly
invited to attend. In general, the quality of the works performed was satisfactory. Some contractors
attending to sites in difficult, remote areas surprisingly turned out to be very efficient and produce some of
the best results which proves that challenging conditions do not always dictate outcome and good
management and skill of the contractor definitely plays a role in the final product. While the subcomponent
results were good, the ERS has had its implementation difficulties and the main reason that the closing date
of the SSRP had to be extended was to be able to complete works at these school sites.

At the start of the ERS, the procurement agency that SSRP used for the first half of the project had left
Guyana and working with them long distance proved to be difficult. Subsequently, the SSRP managed the
procurement process for the ERS and had a very capable Civil Works Coordinator who became very
familiar with the Bank's standard bidding documents and requirements. The Bank team also provided much
guidance to SSRP and consultants for the ERS. The ERS works were divided into three equal packages
(A, B, and C). Two of the packages were awarded to local design and supervisory Architecture firms and
one was awarded to an international firm that had provided supervision services to the pilot schools. This
firm's performance improved and the lessons learned under the pilot schools were applied for the ERS. The
Package they supervised was the only one that completed works mostly on-time.

There were delays by the architecture firms contracted to provide the pre-feasibility studies and the bidding
documentation for all ERS, since no firms in Guyana had enough previous experience in using international
standard bidding documents for construction. Taking into account the delay in producing the documents
and then the actual time needed for the bidding process, evaluation and rewarding of contracts, some two
years had passed. In the meantime, facilities continued to deteriorate, some of it not noticeable by the eye
without opening up walls and structural elements. As a result, at almost all of the ERS, amendments to


                                                      - 16 -

contracts were necessary to adjust scope of works accordingly. All of this required good dialogue and
direction between the supervision firm and the contractors on site. Often due to financial difficulties of the
two local architecture firms, short staffing and problems with calculating and approving expenditures,
contractors were not able to advance. Contracting firms were also often strapped for cash and could not
hire the proper number of skilled workers to complete the jobs on time. Nevertheless, the project assisted
in raising standards by providing support to those firms. Many factors contributed to the increase in time
needed to complete the works including: approval of amendments by the Central Tender Board (CTB) and
the Cabinet when no objections had already been granted, lack of skilled workers, cash flow problems, cost
calculation errors, and bad weather.

Additional delays and cost increases occurred when asbestos was found in several ERS in 2000. The
project coordinated with the DFID-financed GEAP project that had discovered asbestos at one of the
schools they were refurbishing. Jointly, a study of the problem was commissioned in order to advise the
Government on the best course of action to take. A specific contract for asbestos removal was tendered.
Asbestos removal was completed systematically, safely, and according to the schedule. After asbestos
removal, emergency repairs could commence. Due to the construction lag, financial closure of the project
needed to be extended another four months to December 31, 2004, for the extension of two expenditure
categories in order to allow for the final payments upon completion of remaining ERS civil works contracts
under packages B and C (package A having been completed on time).

School environment quality improvement. Through selected school visits and interviews with Ministry
officials, teachers and principals, the ICR mission found that the work on the physical environment
completed at the Emergency Repair and Pilot Schools was of satisfactoy quality. Upgrading of physical
conditions, refurbishment and extensions were made according to the Ministry of Education infrastructure
standards for square foot per student, safety conditions, climate conditions (heat, equatorial rains), asbestos
regulations, and sports and meeting requirements. While it was not originally called for in the emergency
repairs, science laboratories were included in each school design and one room in each school was designed
to house a computer lab in order for these schools to physically be able to offer the full general secondary
school curriculum. The ICR mission learned in some ERS, insufficient attention had been paid to noise
insulation. It was explained that there is a difficult trade off between noise and open space ventilation.
Several communities and head teachers insisted on retaining an open space in some part of the school where
classrooms would be cordoned off using moveable partitions (blackboards) that could be removed for
school assemblies or townhall type meetings.

Taking into account the domestic construction market and technical limitations, the construction outcomes
under the ERS represent an acceptable performance and the project has contributed to strengthening the
private construction sector. The completion of emergency repairs at 18 secondary school facilities has
provided space for 12,440 secondary students based on the MOE standard for number of students per
classroom and square feet per student. This represents an increase of over 3,000 new student places.

COMPONENT III: National and Regional Institutional Strengthening (US$1.95 million executed)

ICR Rating: Partially Satisfactory

A. Strengthening of Budget Planning. Partially satisfactory. The project was successful in supporting
the completion of a multi-phased study on Guyana's budgeting system and the development of new
budgeting guidelines, including the establishment of rational and clear resource allocation criteria through
formula-based financing. This would allow individual schools to plan and manage their budget needs at the



                                                      - 17 -

local level through a school board. Where the effort fell short was in the collection of reliable spending
data to populate the formula. The lack of information prevented the new budgeting guidelines to be tested
at a handful of pilot schools in Regions 2 and 4. The communities at participating schools had nominated
candidates for their school boards, however, there was a long delay in approving the establishment of the
Boards. Training was delivered on the functioning of School Boards and managing the budget through the
finance (accounting) module of the software designed under the School Information Systems
subcomponent. Each participating school received a computer for school management and record keeping.
The pilot was designed so that three schools would be paired with a mentor school that already had a
School Board and had experience handling their own budgets. There are very few schools in Guyana that
have this experience. Two schools that function well and have been operating this way for many years are
President's College and Anna Regina Multilateral School. Under the Project, these schools agreed to be
mentor schools for those participating in the pilot. The implementation of this pilot was limited due to the
lack of organized and systematic support from the MOE and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to help the
pilot succeed. There was inaction at the MOE central level on areas where policy decisions were needed
especially in relationship to data gathering and validation for the formula. Other contributing factors
included: (i) the MOE appointed a School Board Coordinator but this person had no team and little budget
to support the growth of the School Boards, (ii) there was reluctance of some Head teachers to work with
the School Board for fear of losing power, and (iii) School Board officials served on a volunteer basis and
community members were not used to the idea of contribution without remuneration or stipend.

B. Nationwide Physical Facilities Survey - Highly satisfactory. The Nationwide Physical Facilities
Survey was completed early in project implementation to assist the government in identifying capital
investment priorities and carrying out appropriate resource planning. The survey produced high-quality,
detailed information on the status of secondary school infrastructure. It also helped to identify schools
most in need of emergency repairs.

C. School Information System. Partially Satisfactory. After an initial education information needs
assessment was completed, the Ministry of Education contracted an international firm to design and
provide support to the implementation of an Education Management Information System (EMIS),
composed of two different databases:
        (i) The School Information Management System (SIMS) would be tested at the pilot school level
             before expanding to other schools. Some of the data collected through SIMS would feed into
             the regional level.
        (ii) The Education Management System (EMS) would be implemented at the central and regional
             levels with the goal of moving from a manual form system to a computerized database system
             where data and statistics would assist in decision-making related to pedagogy, school
             management and budgeting.
Each Regional office and all pilot schools received a computer with the EMS and SIMS software modules.
The software provider trained the MIS staff in use of the modules and they subsequently provided training
workshops to the respective groups in EMS and SIMS.

School Information Management System (SIMS) training was delivered to all the regional officers and
representatives (headmasters and assistants) at the 12 pilot schools. Participants were instructed on how to
use the different software modules, conduct data entry, and run basic reports. All schools received one
computer for administrative use. All the basic data on the staff and students were entered into the system
(STARS and Personnel modules) at the individual schools. It was expected that as the pilot schools became
more familiar with the initial SIMS modules they would also be able to perform timetabling (Nova-T), keep
track of student performance with the Assessment Manager module, keep attendance records, and run
reports (RepGen/Lite) at the school level. Following recommendations from an IT expert, the MIS team


                                                     - 18 -

concentrated on achieving pilot school utilization of the student and personnel modules before moving to
the other modules which proved to need more adaptation (redesign and simplification of electronic forms)
for the school context.

SIMS was partially used mainly by the school secretary and some Head teachers. It was difficult to
involve other teachers as originally envisioned to create a school system where teachers would directly enter
data into SIMS for their own classroom management. There was reluctance of some head teachers and
their staff to make more use of computers. Among the 12 pilot schools, a few schools are effectively using
the system. L'Aventure in Region 3 is using several modules of SIMS. At this school, the system is
operated by a teacher who had some previous IT experience.

In order to keep supporting implementation of the software in pilot schools, it was recommended that the
MIS team deliver intensive training sessions; develop supporting materials (procedural manual for schools),
and make linkages with the day-to-day activities. Based on the overall experience, the system
characteristics, the high maintenance costs and the difficulties faced during the implementation process, the
MOE accepted the recommendation of the IT consultant not to expand SIMS to the rest of the secondary
schools. The BEAMS project is continuing to support the MOE by further simplifying the school level
modules.

Education Management System (EMS). The MIS team analyzed the system possibilities and concluded
that only some modules of the EMS could be implemented given that only the pilot schools are providing
information needed for EMS while the system is really designed to collect and report information on all
schools in a region. It was found that EMS can only be fully implemented if all the schools of the region
have SIMS in operation.

Training in EMS was originally directed to the Regional Education Officers and a clerk in each office.
Given the many responsibilities of the REdOs, it was difficult for them to spend a sufficient amount of time
needed at start up to migrate to an electronic form of processing and reporting information which in the
long run could save them time. Despite this situation, two efforts were taken to help the EMS
implementation succeed. Under BEAMS, IT specialists were hired to work in each of the regional offices
and second, the Ministry completed a training program with the REdOs addressing the importance and
establishing the rules for data collection, processing and reporting. The MIS team also took steps to seek
new training from the software producers to expand basic knowledge in implementation of EMS. The
regional IT specialists as well as the central MIS team attended an eight day training provided by the
software provider in August 2004. The training sessions covered the areas that were most needed,
including: basic module training, installation and upgrading of software, and planning future steps to
support the overall process. Since, implementation of EMS was at the initial stages at the end of the
project, the IT expert recommended that after about six months, the MIS team evaluate the results and
decide if it will continue supporting the software.

Computers for Schools.        As part of the effort to expand access to information technology, the project
procured computers for a laboratory for the Cyril Potter College of Education (16 computers) and a
computer lab was installed in each pilot school. Each pilot school lab consisted of a network with one
server, four computers and a printer. In addition, a set of educational software CDs was provided to the
schools. The labs are very popular and are used intensively by the schools. Most schools assigned an IT
teacher who was responsible for providing IT classes as part of the curriculum. Many schools took
advantage of the newly built computer labs and have installed more computers (many are donations or
second hand) so that more students and teachers can use the laboratories and be exposed to information
technology. To allow for proper lab set up, the SSRP installed air conditioners in each lab and procured


                                                     - 19 -

office type computer tables.

D. Social Awareness Campaign. Highly satisfactory. The SSRP sought to increase public awareness of
the Ministry's objectives and activities supported by the project, especially those related to improving
secondary education quality. As part of the core team the SSRP Secretariat hired a Media Coordinator to
manage the social awareness campaign. This campaign started with radio programs in 1996 and over the
course of the project there were radio call-in programs, press conferences, and a TV documentary.
Surveys, community, and parent meetings were carried out to understand levels of satisfaction with
activities and the education reform itself. The SSRP published an annual magazine titled, "The
Reformer"with well written and informative articles. In 2000, the SSRP organized a National Conference
on the quality of secondary education, with participation of the various stakeholders, including the private
sector. The SSRP also managed an "Annual Awards Assembly,"whose purpose was to provide recognition
for good performance and provide incentive to weaker performers. Awards were given in a variety of areas
including: (i) to the top five schools in each subject, (ii) students and teachers with 100 percent attendance;
(iii) the top student in the CSEC exams for each school; (iv) the most improved school nationwide in the
CSEC exam; and (v) the pilot school with the highest overall attendance over the year. The SSRP also
organized "handing over" ceremonies where the newly refurbished pilot schools and the ERS were formally
presented to the communities with a symbolic passing of the keys from the contractor down through a line
of active participants, including ministry officials and the SSRP Secretariat to the Head Teacher. In
addition to specific campaign strategies and activities, the Media Coordinator also traveled with the team to
training sessions at the pilot schools, site-visits for school construction and various other trips in order to
take advantage of the opportunity to interface with the beneficiaries, stakeholders, consultants, etc., to
provide them with a chance for input and feedback, and to keep motivation for the reform alive. This also
proved to be very useful in the initial site meetings prior to school rehabilitation to ensure community and
school input into the design plans, construction schedule and other related factors.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:


ICR Rating: Satisfactory. There is a consensus among stakeholders and government officials consulted
that the SSRP served as a role model to disseminate a culture of efficiency and accountability within the
education system, at school, regional and central levels, and in particular with regard to school supervision
and management, education quality development, and secondary systems unification and testing. The
government's national Education Strategic Plan (ESP) 2003-07 reflects this new focus on efficiency, and
makes recommendations for addressing institutional capacity concerns which were constantly addressed by
the SSRP team. The following selected key ESP priorities will need to be implemented by the GOG in
order to sustain the SSRP's positive institutional development impact and its recommendations on
institutional efficiency with support by the international community:

    l Redesign the role of the MOE to conform with a decentralized system. The regional MOE's role
          as a service provider in an already decentralized environment needs to be strengthened. Its
          supervisory role over the education civil servants employment and promotion needs to be clarified.
    l Upgrade the timeliness and adequacy of statistics and data, including strengthening research and
          analysis. The critical link between EMIS and education budget allocation regulations, including



                                                        - 20 -

         payroll, needs to be built up. The formula-based financing model developed under the SSRP
         project and endorsed by the Ministry of Education should serve as a solid basis in this direction.
   l Ensure the MOE is accountable on its own terms. The MOE should develop yearly work plans
         and regularly assess the accomplishment of its goals with other education institutions, partners and
         stakeholders.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Construction Delays. The rehabilitation of the Emergency Repairs Schools was significantly delayed by
the limited capacity of small and medium contractors in Guyana, as well as local architecture firms
providing design and supervisory services for the rehabilitation of schools. In particular, the lack of
financial and other management skills, as well as inadequate cash reserves hampered the ability of the firms
to deliver services in a timely manner and remedial attention was needed to ensure their products were of
acceptable standards (bidding documents, calculation of bills, etc.). Contracting firms also experienced
problems with cash flow and deficiency of skilled workers.

The Presence of Asbestos in Schools. During preparation for rehabilitation of the 18 ERS, asbestos was
found in the ceiling panels at the three multi-lateral schools and in smaller quantities at four other ERS.
(Multilateral schools are large secondary school facilities.) This unanticipated discovery had many effects
on project implementation: it halted the start of the already delayed works at the ERS so that each school
could be inspected by a specialized consultant with knowledge of asbestos removal; contractors then had to
be trained by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to remove the asbestos; communities had to be
informed of the safety hazards; and burial sites for the disposal of the asbestos materials needed to be
authorized by EPA and the communities. Additionally, the SSRP had to identify within the project what
areas to cut in order to divert about US$1.0 million in funds for the safe removal and disposal of the
asbestos. As a consequence, however, Guyana now has firms that are trained and experienced in safe
asbestos removal from public facilities.

Violence and crime. Violence and instability in the country began on a large scale in March 2002 and
lasted up to Spring 2004. Gang activity, murders and other crime escalated, resulting in a tense
atmosphere. To a degree, the situation hampered school visits and travel through areas where it was known
to be unsafe. Additionally, the instability discouraged foreign investment in the country and encouraged
some Guyanese who were contemplating emigration to leave the country seeking respite.

Emigration of skilled Guyanese. Although emigration is a common issue in the Caribbean in general, the
project was affected by the departure of several key staff during implementation. The SSRP Secretariat
lost its Procurement/Financial Officer, its Civil Works Coordinator and several key MIS specialists. The
project was fortunate to find qualified replacements for most of the positions but institutional memory was
lost and some delay occurred in implementation due to the recruitment process, training of new staff, etc.
The departure of MIS staff also happened at a time when training at the regional and school level in use of
the software was crucial. The Ministry of Education continues to suffer from the restriction of hiring
replacements for positions that have become vacant, and thus are usually operating under-staffed.

Fire that burned down an annex of the MOE. During project implementation, a fire completely
destroyed the MOE building that housed the SSRP's offices. All project files from commencement in 1996
up to June 1999 were lost, as well as computers, furniture, and equipment. The complete loss of the office
was detrimental to project implementation for a period of time and also prevented the SSRP from being
able to produce some historical information regarding the project. The SSRP Secretariat was able to move



                                                      - 21 -

to the NCERD building and stayed there until project end, but this physical separation may have
contributed to lack of integration or the perception that the SSRP operated outside the MOE.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

There were some issues related to teacher performance and management that affected project
implementation and outcome. Some of these issues are under the purview of the MOE and others at the
level of Government policies, legislation, and funding priorities. Teacher absenteeism seems to have been
further aggravated by numerous factors or policies under Government's control, that could not have been
foreseen during project preparation, including:
    l An inadequate teacher training policy, whereby teachers are entitled to study for several years at
         the University of Guyana (UG), without providing additional staff at equivalent qualification to
         replace them in the classroom. In addition, many teachers leave the education system after
         completing a marketable degree at UG.
    l The GOG decided that all teachers should retire at the age of 55 as of September 1, 2004, but a
         replacement policy for the vacancies has not yet been implemented.
    l A weak supervision policy at the school, regional and central levels (little action taken against
         repeated absences or lack of motivation).
    l An often inefficient peer support system for junior teachers.
    l Deterioration of living conditions for teachers in remote areas. (Guyana has one of the lowest
         teacher salary incentive scales in the region).
    l The consequent brain drain as a result of opportunities for the best qualified teachers to work
         overseas for higher salaries.

The teachers' "industrial action" (strike) that took place in 2003 over about a six week period regarding
salary increases due from the previous year also affected project implementation. While the salary
situation is complex, earlier Government negotiations with the Teachers' Union could have prevented
continued work slow-downs on the part of teachers.

Procurement Procedures. All civil works contracts and amendments, even after no objection from the
Bank, had to be reviewed by the Central Tender Board and approved by the Cabinet. It was difficult to get
items on the agenda for discussion at Cabinet meetings which added to delays. Additionally, the Central
Tender Board may have paid insufficient attention to the implementation capacity of some of the
contractors, giving more weight to the lowest bid received, rather than the lowest evaluated bid.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:


Teacher Management. The Ministry of Education has faced some challenges in perpetuating the best
practice approaches developed under the pilot schools and in ensuring that the focus on quality is
incorporated into teachers' practices and school management. The management and supervision of pilot
schools showed some deficiencies beginning in about 2002 which coincides with the gradual transition of
daily support provided to pilot schools and regions by the SSRP Secretariat to support provided by regular
regional ministry authorities.

In general, the Regional Education Offices do not appear to be adequately staffed and the division of
responsibilities between the central Ministry and the regions is not always clearly defined. The Ministry is
fully aware of the situation and is taking steps to deconcentrate responsibilities to the regional offices from
the central level, however this has been a difficult process. Regional offices could have played a more
active role in project implementation, in particular on supervision of school management at pilot schools



                                                      - 22 -

and on the EMIS sub-component. The issue could have been addressed more strongly during project
implementation if more attention had been placed on the need to strengthen information technology-based
data gathering at the regional level and better coordinated training support. A weakness in the system is
that the REdOs are reluctant or unable to demand accountability to schools. The lack of clear lines of
responsibility to provide such services has allowed the regional offices or local authorities to remain
unaccountable to an extent. Good performance is more of a reflection on the individual's own motivation
than a system-wide recognized responsibility with enforceable consequences for lack of performance.

Several mission aide memoires recommended simple actions the Ministry could take and still can take to
capitalize on the existing knowledge of teachers and regional personnel trained by the SSRP to retain and
spread quality measures achieved by the reform. REdOs could call upon Head Teachers already trained to
provide training services as resource persons for their regions (a method employed by Regions 2 and 4).
This would enable Head Teachers to strengthen and share their skills with other schools in the region,
thereby spreading valuable education and management knowledge with their colleagues and sustaining
progress the Ministry made with assistance of the SSRP beyond the life of the project. Using resource
teachers would be a cost beneficial way to maintain skills and spread knowledge and application of those
skills.

Financial Data. The lack of adequate information on per capita costs at Nursery, Primary and Secondary
levels of education in the school system meant that implementation of the finance model for allocation of
resources to schools could not commence until the differentials between the three levels could be
established. In collaboration with the Financial Consultant, the SSRP Secretariat developed a
questionnaire to be distributed to all schools to provide the individual expenditures and the resources of the
revenue. Results of the survey appeared problematic, especially since schools were not aware of common
costs, such as utilities, because they were paid at the regional level. Both of the Permanent Secretaries
from the Ministry of Education and Ministry of Local Government expressed interest in resolving issues
related to the formula and data gathering which resulted in an action plan with clear measures to be taken.
Unfortunately, the actions were not pursued and soon after the project ended, however, there is still a
chance to complete the formula and pilot the per capita financing.

5.4 Costs and financing:

At appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$19.26 million, of which the IDA Credit would finance
US$17.3 million equivalent and the Government would contribute US$1.93 million. At project closing, the
Bank contribution amounted to US$15.07 million and the Borrower contributed US$1.76 million Only
about 10 percent of the PPF Refinancing in the amount of US$600,000 was used and the rest was canceled.

During the course of the project, the value of the US dollar declined significantly against the SDR.
Additionally, the exchange rate between the US dollar and Guyana dollar declined from an exchange rate of
US$1 equivalent to G$149 at appraisal, to US$1 equivalent to G$199.75 by project end. Due to the
declining local currency value, savings realized from construction of the pilot schools was applied to cover
part of the financing gap presented by the unexpected asbestos removal at the ERS. The continued loss in
value of the G$, necessitated constant recalculation of expenditures and made programming of all resources
difficult because it was not known how much more the G$ would decline. At project end, 94 percent of the
credit was disbursed. Most of the component expenditures were largely in line with appraisal estimates.
The Borrower requested an extension of eight months to finish execution of project activities, and an
additional four month extension was granted for two categories in order to complete civil works at a few of
the Emergency Repair Schools.




                                                      - 23 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

ICR Rating: Likely. The overall sustainability of project achievements is likely. Many achievements
under the SSRP have become institutionalized in the education system. Curriculum and Teachers guides
(Grades 7-9) are now national documents and have been distributed (in paper copy and on CD) to all
secondary-age schools. The curriculum reform was established in close association with the MOE. The
dynamics of curriculum renovation will need to be kept active and creative under the MOE leadership.
Curriculum updates based on classroom practice will need to take place on a regular basis in the future, in
order to keep up with the quality oriented curricular reform momentum. Use of the guides will also need to
be given emphasis by the Ministry, especially for new or untrained teachers who may not fully understand
that they are tools for better teaching.

The National Third Form Exam developed under the SSRP is now completely managed and budgeted for
by the Ministry of Education and the Regional Departments of Education. The full sustainability of the
NTFE is not yet completely assumed, but the Ministry is aware of areas to be addressed. Student benefit
from the examination is compromised by delays in providing the results. There also seems to be either a
problem with completing the Project part of the exam or turning in the Project part of the test on time
(worth 25 percent of the grade).

The concept of the School Improvement Plan has been fully adopted by the Ministry of Education and
Ministry of Finance. It is the first time that the government ever contemplated giving grants directly to
schools based on school/community produced SIP proposals. The MOE now has dedicated funds for this
purpose in the budget and it requires that by year 2007 all schools should have a SIP. Special training
offered by the MOE is conducted regularly with school communities to facilitate the production of their
own SIP proposal. To continue the efforts of the SSRP, SIPs are also being supported for primary-level
schools by the BEAMS project and the EFA-FTI program.

Beyond the physical infrastructure work realized through the SSRP, the project has helped to increase the
capacity of the construction industry. It has improved the national capacity for designing and building new
secondary schools, through the ERS program. As many secondary schools continue to be in deteriorating
physical condition, the secondary school Physical Facilities Survey established under the project should be
updated to prepare for future school facilities upgrading in an equitable and rational way. Additionally,
school maintenance manuals and guidelines with drawings have been produced to aid schools in performing
inspections of school facilities at all Pilot schools and ERS. Standards for space utilization have also been
adopted. To carry on and reinforce school maintenance policy, the IDB project is requiring government to
allocate a specific percentage of the capital budget for school maintenance each year as a condition of
receiving funds for school construction or rehabilitation.

The piloting of the formula-based financing could not be achieved before the project closed, however, the
information collection effort was still in process at the time of the ICR mission. The piloting of the
financing formula and school board management of funds has also been included as a condition for the
Poverty Reduction and Public Management Operation (PRPMO), formerly known as the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC) II, that is currently under preparation with the World Bank.

With the assistance of the IDA financed Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC) managed by
the President's Office, the MOE has commissioned a consultant to consolidate the results and
recommendations offered in the evaluations from the recently closed SSRP and GEAP projects to provide a



                                                       - 24 -

framework for updating their strategy for improving secondary education and achieving Universal
Secondary Education.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The BEAMS Project will continue some of the activities developed under the SSRP, including:
institutional strengthening, the Management Information System, and school construction/rehabilitation.
However, this project does not cover the area of secondary education quality (curriculum improvement,
testing and teacher training in particular). It is unclear at this stage whether the government will seek
external funding or technical assistance in order to provide the additional support needed to fully ensure the
sustainability of the results achieved under the project's quality component. Through a consultancy, the
MOE is currently examining the reforms undertaken to date and recommendations received in order to plot
the way forward. This consultancy will likely help to refine the Education Strategy and focus attention on
areas where external support would be most appropriate.

It is an opportunity for the Government to select the best options over the long term to sustain and
constantly make more relevant its curricula, assessment system, teacher training and school management
methodologies. Bridging former SSRP and GEAP achievements with the BEAMS project and the
EFA-FTI is a well understandable priority.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The project was well prepared and employed extensive consultations with
government and stakeholders to define the project objectives and components jointly. IDA involvement was
consistent with the overall Country Assistance Strategy for Guyana, adopted in December 1993, in
particular its objective, "to support the rehabilitation of education facilities." The project was also
grounded on the Government's Sector Objectives and Strategy as detailed in their Five-Year Education
Plan. The components were fully integrated with the government's priority to develop the country's human
resources. The project addressed the core education issues of improving quality, relevance, efficiency, and
equity, and included the minority communities living in the Hinterland areas of Guyana. The SSRP built
upon previous work completed by the Ministry of Education, and lessons learned from various
donor-supported projects were taken into account in designing the project.

As this project would be the third education project to be financed by IDA in Guyana, the lending operation
was planned in continuity with previous IDA assistance to the education sector. The first project,
implemented in the early 1970s, successfully engineered the diversification of secondary school curricula
and the strengthening of guidance and testing services. The Second Education Project (from the mid-1970s
to early 1980s, was only partially successful and over 30 percent of the loan amount was cancelled.
Working together with the MOE personnel, the SSRP design emerged in a way that would help address the
obstacles recognized by past project implementation experiences. The team paid particular attention to
execution capacity and keeping the design simple with well focused priorities.

7.2 Supervision:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The Bank provided consistent and high quality supervision with regular
supervision missions taking place at least two to three times a year. Although the task team leader changed
during implementation, significant overlap between the two assured continuity to the team. According to



                                                      - 25 -

Ministry of Education officials, both team leaders have proven to be highly dedicated to the implementation
of the project's objectives. Supervision teams with appropriately skilled members have been regularly
mobilized to provide high quality support to the project. Aide memoires and Project Supervision Reports
were clear and comprehensive, and the team leaders have kept records of well organized and relevant
correspondence with the borrower, which addressed critical project management issues whenever
necessary.

As reported in the Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6), the Bank team received an overall
assessment rating of satisfactory. It noted that the Bank team carefully and closely monitored project
implementation, identified sources of problems quickly, managed supervision activities properly, and kept
in close touch with the Borrower between missions. The Bank team had excellent and collaborative
relationships with DFID and IDB, and this helped to ensure their individual projects supported those of the
others.

The Bank provided guidance and oversight in terms of procurement and financial management, which may
have, at times, seemed burdensome to the Borrower, but this effort ensured that implementation followed
all appropriate Bank policies and procedures. This was especially important after the contract with Crown
Agents (procurement consulting firm) came to an end and the SSRP Secretariat was solely responsible for
procurement activities. As a result, SSRP staff became more knowledgeable in the areas of finance and
procurement. Overall, the Bank team has demonstrated quality supervision in assisting the MOE in
achieving its objectives in a complex and challenging environment.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The project was well
prepared, and the close involvement of education policy makers resulted in a qualitative project document
that guided implementation through to project completion. Overall, project supervision was conducted in a
professional manner and provided significant technical support to the Ministry and the SSRP Secretariat.
For these reasons, the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. Officials from the Ministry of Education were involved in study tours,
allowing them to learn from the experience of best practice policies in neighboring countries, Jamaica in
particular. Education specialists from Guyana were closely involved, together with Bank staff, during the
project design phase. In particular, the future Director of the SSRP was involved in designing the project.
Government officials were eager to begin reforming the secondary school system and were careful to try
and avoid repeating mistakes that had been made with previous donor supported projects.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. Government implementation performance was satisfactory, however, early on
during project implementation (September 1998), it was reported in the results of a Rapid Supervision
Assessment (RSA2) that the Borrower was not committed to the project, as evidenced by inaction, delays in
implementation, and failure to follow up on the recommendations of the Bank's supervision missions. The
Borrower's commitment to the project improved as a result of a strategy whereby performance would be
assessed strictly based on how many benchmarks were met by the end of each mission (about every six
months). The system of benchmarks was employed for several missions until commitment was improved.



                                                     - 26 -

Additionally, the Borrower and implementing agency responded very well to a consultant specialist that
was hired to facilitate team building within the SSRP Secretariat and help the Borrower build better
community/school/Ministry relationships. The Government also demonstrated its commitment to the
project by making available the necessary counterpart funds for implementation. As mentioned earlier,
some delay in implementation could have been avoided through a less cumbersome procurement and
contract approval process. The new, national procurement laws should help in this area.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. With competence and dedication, the SSRP Secretariat managed to
outperform the objectives of the education quality improvement reforms. The Director and Administrator,
who both provided technical specialization in quality, served through the life of the project. The
performance of the SSRP team was recognized by the public in Guyana, which was fully informed about
the project achievements through a well coordinated public information and media campaign. Because of its
success in promoting a quality-based curriculum reform and new testing mechanism, the SSRP team, under
the leadership of a competent and dedicated team leader, was very well respected by all education
stakeholders. The SSRP worked closely with other donor funded projects, in particular with DFID,
through the GEAP project (curriculum development and school rehabilitation), the IDB (PEIP project) and
the UNDP (School Books project).

The SSRP rose to the challenge of working within a complex and often bureaucratic government system to
accomplish tasks and went the extra step to provide information to government authorities in order to meet
the goals of the project. The SSRP Secretariat was, however, unable to achieve some essential tasks under
the Institutional Strengthening component and this may have been due to more diligence needed in oversight
of technical specialists and/or dependence on policy and support that was slow in materializing within the
MOE or the MOF.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


ICR Rating: Satisfactory. Due to its close involvement in the project's preparation and design and the
dynamic performance in implementation of components one and two through the SSRP Secretariat, the
overall borrower's performance is rated satisfactory. Nevertheless, efforts to build national and
decentralized education management capacities, through essential actions identified under the SSRP, will
need to continue to be pursued in the future.

8. Lessons Learned


Institutional capacity. Guyana is one of the poorest countries in the Americas, and consequently, relies on
IDA-type credits and other donor supported activities to assist in efficient and effective delivery of public
secondary education services, in addition to a variety of social, health and public benefits to its entire
population. Future development assistance programs should aim to increase substantially the education
management capacity in Guyana, which still needs to be consolidated among the central, regional and local
levels.

Future cooperation and integration of project management into the MOE. During project preparation,
it was anticipated that phase two of the SSRP would be discussed and designed during project execution. It
may be necessary for the Government to seek, international technical and funding assistance to continue the
secondary education quality reform (this area is not currently being assisted by another donor). If a new



                                                    - 27 -

education sector project were to be prepared, it would be necessary to better integrate project management
functions into the MOE, in order to strengthen the capacity of the institution. The curriculum reform
activities may have been too strongly associated with the SSRP. In order to sustain the SSRP achievements
in education quality, there is a need to define new institutional roles to promote continuous improvement.
New programs supporting education in Guyana (EFA-FTI and BEAMS) have been better integrated with
the MOE and especially the Planning Unit. Integrating project administration into the existing
organizational structure of the Ministry would help build institutional capacity, local ownership and
accountability. There should also be a director assigned to the project who is fully dedicated to the task of
coordinating implementation without other responsibilities and with appropriate remuneration, so that the
proper attention can be paid to implementation issues.

Keep project design simple. Well focused priorities and flexible implementation have the best chance of
success.

Champion of efforts. As demonstrated in the Education Quality Component, when there is a dedicated
champion or supporter of change coupled with the necessary provision of clear and consistent follow-up
and attention, successful implementation can be realized. When the incentive, support and supervision fall
thin, there is a tendency to accept lesser standards and slack off. Where roles were less clearly defined,
between the Ministry and the SSRP Secretariat, such as who would be responsible to ensure the piloting of
the finance formula at selected schools, there was a drop off in performance.

Management Information Systems. For any MIS system to be fully implemented and useful at all levels
of the education system, several factors are critical, including: (i) software should be adapted to meet the
needs of end-users; (ii) adequate and regular technical support needs to be provided; (iii) the system needs
to be used as a school tool for management, rather than just a database where knowledge and data entry
rests with just one person; and (iv) a policy supporting use of the software and reporting electronically
would encourage the transition from manual data collection to electronic, systematic reporting. More effort
should have been made to adapt the software to fit with school level needs and reporting. Additionally,
better defined local school management and information gathering needs would have aided the provision of
technical support and software upgrades. The existing software has proved to be a very useful school
management tool in a few schools whenever adequate training and regular technical support was provided.
For any future MIS system to be fully successful, no matter how good the software is, the Ministry should
employ a well designed training strategy and dedicate enough resources (human and monetary) to ensure its
successful implementation and use. This strategy would include feedback and two way flow of information
to and from the central level, regional and school levels so that information can be used for improving
performance and decision-making.

Social Awareness Campaign. The SSRP's successful social awareness campaign proved to have positive
effects with relatively low cost. The campaign proved to be a means of encouraging quality improvements
in the education system by targeting stakeholders (teachers, parents, student, opinion leaders) so they could
actively benefit as well as support and demand the improvements. Social marketing can also be a means to
build incentives for improvement through public reward and recognition of performance.

Weak private sector services. As mentioned earlier, due to economic constraints and as a consequence
the low capacity of local firms to deliver services, implementation delays can be encountered. This makes
it all the more important to select the lowest evaluated bidder where past performance and economic
stability of firms should be taken into account, rather than the lowest bidder, when evaluating bidders for
award of contract.



                                                      - 28 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Partner comments are included in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

List of Secondary School Reform Project Publications

National English Curriculum Guide                 Levels 7, 8 and 9 Revised August 2002
National English Teachers' Guide                  Levels 7, 8 and 9

Mathematics Curriculum Guide                      Levels 7, 8 and 9
Mathematics Teachers' Guide                       Levels 7, 8 and 9

Science Curriculum Guide                          Levels 7, 8 and 9
Science Teachers' Guide                           Levels 7, 8 and 9
Science Practical Activities Guide                Levels 7, 8 and 9 [In collaboration with Guyana
                                                  Education Access Project (GEAP)]

Social Studies Curriculum Guide                   Levels 7, 8 and 9
Social Studies Teachers' Guide                    Levels 7, 8 and 9

Reading Curriculum Guide                          Levels 7, 8 and 9
Reading Teachers' Guide                           Levels 7, 8 and 9

Agriculture Science Curriculum Guide              Levels 7, 8 and 9
Home Economics                                    Levels 7, 8 and 9 (Manag., Food & Nutrition, Clothing &
Textiles)
Industrial Technology                             Levels 7, 8 and 9 Building Technology, Electrical
                                                  Technology, Mechanical Engineering Technology,
                                                  Technical Drawing)
Draft Expressive Arts Curriculum Guide            Levels 7, 8 and 9 (Dance, Drama, Music)

Draft Life Skills, Health, Family Life and Citizenship Education Levels 1 to 9 (in collaboration with
NCERD, Ministry of Health, Joint Human Rights Education Program and UNICEF

Careers Education: Handbook for Secondary Teachers
Study Skills: Handbook for Secondary Teachers
Themes for the Pastoral Curriculum: Guidelines for Secondary Teachers
Guidelines for School Improvement Planning
Standards for the Design and Development of Secondary-Age schools in Guyana.
Scheme of Work for English                        Levels 10 and 11
Scheme of Work for Social Studies                 Levels 10 and 11



                                                   - 29 -

Scheme of Work for Mathematics                 Levels 10 and 11
Scheme of Work for Science                     Levels 10 and 11
Scheme of Work for Social Studies              Level 11
Scheme of Work for Mathematics                 Level 11
Scheme of Work for Science                     Level 11
Report of the National Conference on Quality Secondary Education
Themes for Living: Poems by Grade 9 Students, 2003
"The Reformer" (SSRP magazine)                 yearly 1998-2004




                                                - 30 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Note - the SAR did not include outcome
indicators, but the team tracked the following:

I. EDUCATION PROGRAM QUALITY.
Unification of Secondary Education                                          Unified school management and training
Management.                                                                 program for secondary schools established
                                                                            and implemented at pilot schools.

Development and implementation of common                                    New curricula for Grades 7-9 in the five core
curricula for lower secondary education.                                    subjects were developed, tested and adopted
                                                                            nationally. Curricula for five non-core
                                                                            subjects were also developed and are being
                                                                            implemented.
Training of Teachers to support the                                         Intensive training and support was delivered
curriculum implementation.                                                  to the 12 pilot schools, Regional officers and
                                                                            beyond.
Provision of learning materials to students to                              New lower secondary level textbooks in core
support curriculum implementation.                                          subjects were delivered to pilot schools to
                                                                            support new curricula. Nationally adopted
                                                                            curriculum guides and teachers' guides are
                                                                            also in use.

Increase in percentage of students taking                                   12 pilot schools - 83% increase by 2004.
CXC exams. (Baseline, 1996)                                                 Nationally - 30% increase by 2004.

Percentage of CXC exams passed:                                             Percentage of CXC exams passed:
  A. Achieving a Grade III or better.                                         A. Achieving a Grade III or better.
      National - 35%    (1996)                                                   National - 55%     (2004)
      Pilot GSS - 42% (1996)                                                     Pilot GSS - 78% (2004)
      Pilot CHS - 29% (1996)                                                     Pilot CHS - 24% (2004)
      Pilot PT - 0%     (1996)                                                   Pilot PT - 27%      (2004)
  B. Achieving a Grade IV or better.                                          B. Achieving a Grade IV or better.
      National - 65%    (1996)                                                   National - 78%     (2004)
      Pilot GSS - 81% (1996)                                                     Pilot GSS - 93% (2004)
      Pilot CHS - 66% (1996)                                                     Pilot CHS - 50% (2004)
      Pilot PT - 0%      (1996)                                                  Pilot PT - 53%      (2004)

Average Attendance for teachers and                                         Average attendance for teachers and
students in pilot schools. (Data not available                              students in pilot schools:
for project start date.)                                                    Students - 67% (2004)
Students - 70% (2000)                                                       Teachers - 88% (2004)
Teachers - 86% (2000)

Survival rate at pilot schools:
Form III to IV - 91% (1997)                                                 Survival rate at pilot schools:
Form IV to V - 95% (2000)                                                   Form III to IV - 92% (2004)
                                                                            Form IV to V - 94% (2004)
II. SCHOOL ENVIRONMENT
Improve school physical environment at 12                                   12 pilot schools completely rehabilitated.
pilot schools.                                                              They now provide proper facilities for
                                                                            provision of General Secondary School
                                                                            curriculum. Enrollment at these schools
                                                                            increased by 39%, providing 2029 additional
                                                                            children access to GSS.
Improve school physical environment through                                 18 secondary schools were vastly improved.
provision of emergency repairs at selected                                  Schools now physically equipped to offer
schools.                                                                    GSS curricula. 3,000 new student places
                                                                            created.
III. NATIONAL AND REGIONAL
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Development of rational budgeting and
monitoring procedures.



                                                         - 31 -

                                                                         Concept of School Improvement Plan (SIP)
                                                                         was adopted and is now a nationwide
                                                                         mandate that all schools must produce a SIP
                                                                         by 2007.
                                                                         MOE has variety of tools to assist with
                                                                         planning and budgeting for physical school
                                                                         improvements and maintenance - Nationwide
                                                                         Physical Facilities Survey, Selection Criteria
                                                                         for prioritizing emergency repairs, school
                                                                         maintenance manuals for upkeep of facilities,
                                                                         Space Utilization Study, etc.


Output Indicators:
                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
EDUCATION PROGRAM QUALITY
Design new curriculum and teacher's guides                               1000 hardcopies and 225 CD sets of the
for the 5 core subject areas.                                            National Curriculum and Teacher's Guides in
                                                                         the 5 core areas (English, math, science,
                                                                         social studies, and reading) are in use at all
                                                                         secondary schools, regional offices and the
                                                                         central ministry. Additionally, the same was
                                                                         produced, tested, and distributed for five
                                                                         non-core subject areas.
Delivery of training to key personnel in the                             22 Supervision team members
use of Curriculum Guides, Curriculum                                     11 CIMAT subject specialists
Supervision and School-based Training.                                   11 SSRP Education Officers/Supervisors


Subject teachers at pilot schools trained in                             609 from pilot schools.
content and methodology for core subjects                                88 from non-pilot schools
and reading.
Subject teachers at pilot schools trained in                             109 from pilot schools
content and methodology for non-core                                     44 from non-pilot schools
subjects.


Teachers using Grades 7, 8, and 9                                        835 at the 12 pilot schools
Curriculum Guides for curriculum planning.                               5,777 at non-pilot schools
Teachers using Grades 7, 8, 9 Teacher's                                  688 at the 12 pilot schools.
Guides.                                                                  4955 at non-pilot schools.
Supply core subject textbooks to pilot                                   25,900 textbooks distributed to pilot schools.
schools.                                                                 11,760 library books distributed to pilot
                                                                         schools.
School administrators trained in School                                  539 in pilot schools
Management, Leadership and SIP                                           60 in non-pilot schools
Development.
SIACs established at each pilot school and                               12 SIACs established and functioning. Over
all produce a SIP.                                                       209 meetings have been held during
                                                                         implementation. Each manage their
                                                                         respective SIPs.
Nationalized student assessment mechanism                                National Third Form Exam (NTFE)
for lower secondary tested and established.                              established and now managed by MOE.
SCHOOL ENVIRONMENT
12 Pilot schools completely refurbished and                              12 pilot schools fully refurbished and
equipped with furniture.                                                 configured to provide GSS curriculum.
                                                                         Furniture delivered to pilot schools, including:
                                                                         student tables, chairs, desks; teacher chairs
                                                                         and desks; classroom cupboards, computer
                                                                         workstations, and laboratory stools.
National and Regional Education Officers                                 146 total
and School Administrators trained in




                                                      - 32 -

Community-based Participatory Management
of the School Environment
Emergency Repairs completed at Selected                 Emergency Repairs and Rehabilitation
Secondary Schools.                                      completed at 18 Schools. All are now
                                                        equipped to provide GSS curriculum.


NATIONAL AND REGIONAL
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING.


Improved understanding of the state of                  Nationwide Physical Facilities Survey
school facilities in the country.                       completed.

School Management Information Systems                   MIS team established.
developed and data gathering and reporting
for information-based decision making                   SIMS and EMIS introduced and tested at all
enhanced.                                               12 pilot schools and regional offices plus
                                                        Georgetown. School administrators trained
                                                        in use of software.

Social Awareness Campaign on the reform of              Country-wide knowledge and participation in
secondary education conducted.                          the reform was achieved through regular
                                                        community meetings, radio and multimedia
                                                        campaigns, including an annual SSRP
                                                        publication.

Strengthen budget planning.                             School boards established and trained at pilot
                                                        schools. Framework for appropriating yearly
                                                        budget allocations established.

1End of project




                                              - 33 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million   US$ million
A. Education Program Quality                                  3.00            2.84             95
B. School Environment
  B.1 Pilot Schools                                           7.20            5.82             81
  B.2 Emergency Repair Schools                                6.00            6.17            103
C. National & Regional Institutional Strengthening
  C.1 Institutional Strengthening                             1.50            0.99             66
  C.2 Project Management                                      1.00            0.96             96
D. PPF Refinancing                                            0.60            0.06             10


Total Baseline Cost                                          19.30          16.84
                         Total Project Costs                 19.30          16.84
                   Total Financing Required                  19.30          16.84


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                            1.00            5.90          3.00         0.00         9.90
                                   (1.00)           (5.55)      (2.85)         (0.00)      (9.40)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.20          1.70         0.00         1.90
                                   (0.00)           (0.20)      (1.70)         (0.00)      (1.90)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          6.90         0.00         6.90
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (5.50)         (0.00)      (5.50)
4. Training & Operating             0.00            0.00          0.60         0.00         0.60
Exp.
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.60)         (0.00)      (0.60)
   Total                            1.00            6.10         12.20         0.00        19.30
                                   (1.00)           (5.75)      (10.65)        (0.00)     (17.40)




                                                 - 34 -

    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     1
                                                           Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                 Other
    1. Works                                 8.54               0.00              0.00             0.00              8.54
                                            (7.19)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (7.19)
    2. Goods                                 2.29               0.00              0.13             0.00              2.42
                                            (2.20)             (0.00)            (0.08)            (0.00)           (2.28)
    3. Services                              2.50               0.00              1.74             0.00              4.24
                                            (2.50)             (0.00)            (1.67)            (0.00)           (4.17)
    4. Training & Operating                  0.00               0.00              1.64             0.00              1.64
    Exp.
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.43)            (0.00)           (1.43)
        Total                                13.33              0.00              3.51             0.00             16.84
                                            (11.89)            (0.00)            (3.18)            (0.00)           (15.07)

      1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

      2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
        of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
        managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                        Percentage of Appraisal
         Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
I. EDUCATION                     2.59         0.42                     2.50         0.34                  96.5      81.0
PROGRAM QUALITY
II. SCHOOL
ENVIRONMENT
    a. Pilot Schools             6.45         0.75                     5.33         0.49                  82.6      65.3
    b. Emergency School          5.31         0.69                     5.31         0.86                  100.0    124.6
        Repair (ERS)


III. NATIONAL AND
REGIONAL
INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING
   a. Institutional              1.41         0.07                     0.92         0.07                  65.2     100.0
        Strengthening
    b. Project Mngmt.            1.01         0.00                     0.96         0.00                  95.0      0.0


IV. PPF Refinancing              0.55         0.00                     0.06         0.00                  10.9      0.0
Total Project Costs             17.32         1.93                    15.08         1.76                  87.1      91.2


    Please note that the exchange rate between SDR and US$ and US$ and G$ changed significantly over the
    course of implementation. The project executed 94 percent (SDR 11.1 million) of the total credit amount




                                                            - 35 -

(SDR 11.8 million). The US$ equivalent is US$15.08 million executed which is 94 percent of the IDA
amount rather than 87 percent as reflected in the table above and below. This is due to the depreciation of
the US$ to SDR.

Project Financing by Category (in US$ million equivalent)

Category                               Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of Appraisal
                                      IDA    Govt.     total   IDA    Govt.    total     IDA    Govt.    Total
1. Civil Works
  a. Pilot Schools                     5.13    0.57      5.70   2.78   0.49      3.27       54      86      57
  b. Emergency Repair Schools          4.47    0.50      4.97   4.41   0.86      5.27       99    172      106
2. Goods
  a. Pilot Schools                     1.21    0.00      1.21   2.07   0.04      2.11     171        0     174
  b. Other                             0.65    0.00      0.65   0.21   0.00      0.21       32       0      33
3. Consultant Services                 4.56    0.00      4.56   4.17   0.07      4.24       91       0      93
4. Training                            0.45    0.00      0.45   0.63   0.00      0.63     140        0     140
5. Operating Expenditures              0.31    0.00      0.31   0.75   0.30      1.05     242        0     339
6. PPF Refinancing                     0.55    0.86      1.41   0.06   0.00      0.06       11       0        4
Total Project Costs                  17.33     1.93     19.26 15.08    1.76      16.84      87      91      87




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/1994


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/26/1995                7     Mission Leader (1) ;
                                             Education Finance Specialist
                                             (1); Architect (1); Training
                                             Specialist(1); Education
                                             Specialist (1); Human
                                             Resource Specialist (1).


 Supervision

              08/09/1996                1    Task Manager (1)                       S              HS
              06/19/1997                8    Procurement Specialist (1); Task       S               S
                                             Assistant (1); Mission Leader
                                             (1); Education Finance Specialist
                                             (1); Architect (1); Organizational
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Financial Management Specialist
                                             (1); School-based Management
                                             Spec. (1)
              03/23/1998                5    Team Leader (1); Procurement           U               S
                                             Assistant (1); Tech. Ed.
                                             Specialist (1); Project Assistant
                                             (1); Architect (1)
              10/30/1998                4    Task Manager (1); Education            U               S
                                             Specialist (1); Education
                                             Management (1); Architect (1)
              05/07/1999                2    TTL (1); Deputy TTL (1)                S              HS
              11/16/1999                5    Task Manager (1); Education            U               S
                                             Management Spec/Training
                                             Spec. (1); Curriculum
                                             Development Spec. (1);
                                             Education Specialist (1);
                                             Architect (1)
              11/16/1999                1    TTL (1)                                S              HS
              06/08/2001                4    TTL (1); DEPUTY TTL (1);               S               S
                                             Architect (1); HD Sector Leader
                                             (1)
              11/09/2001                1    TTL (1)                                S              HS
              01/11/2002                3    Deputy TTL / Mission Leader            S              HS
                                             (1); Sr. Procurement Specialist
                                             (1); Architect (1)
              06/07/2002                3    Acting TTL (1); Sr. Procurement        S              HS



                                              - 38 -

                                           Specialist (1); Architect (1)
               11/18/2002              3   Acting TTL (1); Procurement          S    S
                                           Specialist (1); Architect (1)
               03/18/2003              1   Acting TTL (1);                      S    S
               5/20/2003               4   TTL (1); Financial Mgmt
                                           Specialist; Architect; IT
                                           Specialist;
               7/22/03                 1   Task Team Leader                     S    S
               12/06/2003              4   TTL; Architect; IT Specialist;       S    S
                                           Procurement Specialist
               4/02/04                 5   TTL; Architect; FM;                  S    S
                                           Disbursements; IT Specialist
               8/13/04                 5   TTL, Architect, FMS, IT              S    S
                                           Specialist, Procurement Analyst,
                                           Education

 ICR
               9/04                   1     Sr. Education Specialist




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                     not available
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                 322.00
  Supervision                            128                            550.00
  ICR                                                                    44.00
  Total                                                                 916.00




                                            - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Commonwealth Secretariat- National Centre for Educational Resource Development. Principles
of Educational Management (module 2). 1993.

Fraser, Simon. Secondary School Reform Project: Education Finance and Budget Reform,
Phases I-IV, SSRP, Georgetown, Guyana, 2001-2002.
Government of Guyana/Department for International Development. Guyana Education Access
Project GEAP. Master Plan. Second version, June 1999.

Hunte, Kenneth. Rewarding School Improvement. Document prepared for the Minister of
Education, May 2002.

IDA and Government of Guyana. "Secondary School Reform Project, Credit Agreement.
Washington, DC, 1996.

IDB. Basic Education Access, Management Support Program (BEAMS). Presentation
documents: Introducing Program Components and Activities.

MOE. Educational Statistical Digests, Georgetown, (various) 1994 to 2001.

MOE. Education Strategic Plan 2003-2007. Government of Guyana, 2003.

MOE - National Centre for Educational Resource Development. Analysis of Secondary Schools
Entrance Examination Results 1996-2003. June 2004.

National Centre for Educational Resource Development. Analysis of 2000-2003 CXC General
and Technical Proficiency Results. June 2004

Secondary School Reform Project. Bi-annual Project Progress Reports, 1997 ­ 2004.

Secondary School Reform Project- Measurement and Evaluation Unit, National Centre for
Educational Resource Development. 2001 Examination analytical report, levels 7-8-9.

Secondary School Reform Project. TheReformer magazine.

Secondary School Reform Project. Accounting guidelines for monitoring the use of SIP funds.
June 29, 1999.

West, Arnott. Implementation procedures plan for the School Information Management System
(SIMS). Secondary School Reform Project, IT consultant, July 20, 1999.

Wolff, Laurence. Progress and new challenges for Secondary Education in Guyana: an
evaluation of the SSRP project. Report Written for the Ministry of Education of Guyana.
(Volumes 1 and 2). November 17, 2004



                                            - 42 -

World Bank. Aide Memoires, 1997-2004.

World Bank. Report No. 14997-GUA: Staff Appraisal Report, Guyana Secondary School
Reform Project, Washington, DC, May 15, 1996.

World Bank/SSRP. Analysis of Educational Indicators and Pilot School Performance as a result
of the Secondary School Reform Project. Guyana Mission, Aide Memoire, Annex 1, August 12,
2004, (Angela Demas).




                                           - 43 -

Additional Annex 8. Partner comments.


Executive Summary

         This report evaluates the inputs, processes and results of the Secondary School Reform Project
(SSRP) of the Republic of Guyana, financed by a credit from the International Development Agency
(IDA) of US$17.3 million (signed in 1996 and to be completed by December 31, 2004); suggests ways
to sustain and expand the improvements made under the SSRP; and also examines issues in secondary
education, management of the education system, and mobilization of foreign assistance.       It is based on
two visits to Guyana, visits to thirteen secondary schools, discussions with a wide spectrum of
stakeholders, and a review of documents and data on education in Guyana.

         Project Objectives and Description. In the early 1960's Guyana was among the education leaders
in the Caribbean, with high rates of literacy, primary school enrollment, and educational attainment of its
population. Its education system deteriorated since that time in all aspects.  Recognizing these problems,
the Government sought assistance from the World Bank through the SSRP, which sought to improve
quality, relevance, equity and efficiency of lower secondary education (grades 7 to 9) and to improve
overall management of the education system. Quality improvement (15% of project costs) would be
achieved through designing and implementing a common core curriculum reform for lower secondary
education and increasing learning achievement.    Quality improvements were initially targeted at 12 pilot
schools. Teams of experts revised curriculum in the core subjects studies (and subsequently additional
subjects) and teaching material and training were provided based on the new curriculum. Testing was used
as a means of performance monitoring through a ninth grade exam (the National Third Form Examination,
or NFTE). The project sought to improve the physical environment of lower secondary schooling through
facilities improvement (68% of project costs) of twelve "pilot schools and, eventually, 18 additional
secondary schools. Finally the project sought to strengthen management (17% of costs) at the local,
regional, and national levels through improved budgetary planning, improved organization, a school and
system information system, a nationwide physical facilities survey, and campaigns to increase social
awareness of the importance of quality.

         Evaluation of the project: improving quality.     The effort at quality improvement within SSRP
exhibits much that could be called best practice in "standards based reform."       Standards based reform
focuses on measurable increases in learning, in which all of the inputs and processes--curriculum, training,
textbooks, supervision, incentives, and rewards--are aligned towards achievement of those specific learning
goals. The new unified curriculum and related teaching materials and teacher guides supported under
SSRP were focused on classroom practice, well structured, provided step-by-step instructions, and were
appropriate to untrained or poorly trained teachers. The training program linked with these materials was
professionally delivered. The implementation of a nation-wide diagnostic test at the end of Form 3 (the
National Third Form Exam or NTFE) was also an important breakthrough, since it provided a diagnostic
tool for teachers which they could use during the last two years of secondary school. Seven Community
High Schools and three Primary Tops were converted into full General Secondary Schools. With their
improved physical facilities, new curriculum and teacher training, students' scores on the CSEC and NTFE
exams went up until two years ago, and these students now have an opportunity for study beyond
secondary education which was not available in the past.     From a system wide point of view, Guyana's
scores in the Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate (CSEC) exam have been slowly improving from a
low reached in the early 1990's. It is likely that SSRP catalyzed a broader educational and social effort
which is resulting in improved learning.




                                                   - 44 -

         While the SSRP accomplished much that is best practice in quality improvement, the most critical
issue now is that of sustainability.      Based on school visits, recent test scores, and interviews with
stakeholders, pilot schools are "sliding back" to an older way of doing business in the classroom. The last
SSRP training program ended almost four years ago. Teacher turnover means that the shared experiences
of those in the pilot schools have gradually been dissipated. Based on observations, there is little evidence
that teachers are using the NTFE for diagnostic purposes. Qualitative improvement and system
management are inter-related.       In this respect the Guyana education system continues to suffer from
inadequate vertical and horizontal accountability, with the result that there is no incentive for teachers to
change their classroom behavior.

         To sustain secondary school quality reform, MOE may wish to consider the following: identify a
focal point and critical targets for quality reform; spend the money necessary to sustain quality reform;
focus especially on teacher commitment towards quality enhancement; re-invigorate a social marketing
program on the importance of quality; as already proposed by MOE, make the National Center for
Educational Resource Development (NCERD)               the   beacon of quality improvement, through its
establishment as an autonomous institution; de-emphasize elitism and emphasize "value added" in
secondary education; An Annex to this report provides an exercise which identifies the most "effective"
secondary schools in Guyana, defined as schools which have the greatest increase in their ranking on the CSEC
exam compared to cut-off scores for entrance to the schools based on the SSEE. The analysis confirms that well
managed schools can significantly improve student performance       ensure that the NTFE provides more
effective feedback to schools as well as a research based approach to learning; complete the process of
transforming all Primary Tops and community high schools into general secondary schools; and, as
noted below, seek further foreign financial assistance to sustain and expand secondary school quality
improvement.

         Evaluation of the project: improving the physical environment. The SSRP successfully upgraded
the physical environment of 12 pilot schools, and repairs and renovations have been made to 18 non-pilot
schools, equivalent to 30% of the approximately 70 public secondary schools in Guyana. While there have
been many implementation difficulties, for the most part the renovated schools are of reasonable quality.
Because of poor timetabling, some facilities are underutilized. Science laboratories are underutilized
because Guyanese students continue to avoid sitting for CSEC science exams.           In nearly every school,
libraries, while staffed by full time librarians, are severely underutilized. Equipment in many cases is
underutilized or already in disrepair.

         To sustain physical facilities improvement, the following should be considered: update the
secondary school physical survey and continue to upgrade existing secondary school facilities through
local or external funding; help to build up the capacity of the construction industry, seek more effective
facilities utilization; train head teachers in effective timetabling and school facilities management; and
find a means of financing school maintenance through public funding and/or though encouraging PTAs
to contribute to school maintenance.

         Evaluation of the project: improving education management The project sought to provide a
variety of technical inputs into the management improvement process. This component of the project has
had limited success yet the MOE appears to be moving in the right direction. MOE staff increasingly look
at data on learning to evaluate schools. The project financed computerized school and management systems
which were not made operational in part because of failure to recruit regional Information Technology
officers.    A consultant examined budget management but most of his recommendations, including
decentralized budgeting, have not yet been put in place.




                                                     - 45 -

          Lack of incentives, inadequate leadership, continuation of attitudes of actors and stakeholders at
all levels which are not supportive of accountability, and salaries, which while perhaps adequate in the
Guyana context, are far lower than in countries to which where many Guyanese can emigrate, appear to
be far grater constraints to effective management than training and/or equipment.                MOE still does not
appear to be attracting the highest quality young staff. With notable exceptions, most head teachers do not
exhibit the leadership necessary for good school management and heads of departments do not fulfill their
functions as mentors to new teachers.         MOE has made school management more difficult with some of its
policies, including its retirement policy and its policy of permitting young untrained teachers to attend the
University of Guyana while on full salary.               MOE has not yet adequately structured the "matrix
management" approach required for a decentralized education system and continues to be behind in timely
collection of basic statistics.
          The National Education Strategy 2003-2007 has already identified many management issues. In
keeping with the objectives of the Strategy, the following should be considered: redesign the role of MOE
to conform with a decentralized system; Research throughout the world has shown that decentralization by
itself, especially to local and regional offices, does not improve the quality of education. The prerequisite is for the
central authority to have strong oversight, clear learning and school retention goals, specific financing goals, with
an emphasis on equity and cost effectiveness, rewards and sanctions to schools and administrative units based on
performance, and an unerringly focus on changes in the classroom and on student performance. find ways of
recruiting and rewarding the best and the brightest in public service in education; continue to upgrade
the timeliness adequacy, and utilization of statistic; focus unerringly on cost-effectiveness, including
seeking least cost interventions with potentially significant impacts on learning or school retention;
make the MOE accountable on its own terms, e.g. implementing the 2003-2007 Education Strategy; and,
as noted above, move forward expeditiously in               establishing NCERD          as an autonomous quality
improvement agency with adequate funding..

          The role of the World Bank in identifying, negotiating, financing and supervising the SSRP has
been positive, although at some times excessively rigid. Guyana itself fielded a strong project team.
Weaknesses in implementation were lodged, according to the World Bank, mainly in oversight of civil
works, in some deficiencies in financial record keeping,            and in the slowness and sometimes excessive
focus on price of Government's Tender Board. The separation of the SSRP team from normal MOE
operations may have led to difficulties in sustainability.

          New Challenges in Secondary Education. Guyana is well advanced in implementing a common
curriculum for lower secondary education. In its effort at universal secondary education, the MOE will
need to design and implement an appropriate structure and strategy for the upper grades of secondary
education.       In particular Guyana needs to consider the appropriate mix of academic, commercial and
technical vocational subjects. Furthermore, for long term quality improvement, all secondary school
teachers should eventually receive a full BA in their subject specialty, followed by a year of pedagogical
training, with the Cyril Potter College of Education offering at most the first two years of a full four year
program. Policies that Guyana may wish to consider for continuing the process of secondary school quality
improvement include the following: ensure that all children sit for the four basic subjects in the CSEC
exam; expand the offering of business oriented courses leading to the CSEC exam; de-emphasize
technical and agricultural subjects in secondary schools unless there are specific circumstances where a
school would be associated with an industry or firm which will accept its graduates and which would be
committed to providing adequate financing; expand the teaching of Information Technology but only
where financing and high quality teachers are assured; move specific vocational training out of the
formal secondary schools and into modular programs provided by the Ministry of Labor and Ministry of
Human Service; develop special Youth programs (outside MOE) for the youths, especially boys, who
may still drop out of secondary schools; undertake a financing and human resources study on offering



                                                          - 46 -

universal high quality secondary education; upgrade and re-invigorate secondary teacher training; and
seek international financial assistance for feasibility studies on these subjects as well as to design a
policy for oversight as well as encouragement of private education.

        Mobilizing Foreign Assistance. As recognized in the National Education Strategy, in the
foreseeable future Guyana will have to depend on external assistance for much of investments in quality
improvement.     This brings advantages in terms of financing and new ideas but disadvantages in that
external agencies may insist on approaches which are inappropriate for Guyana. To mobilize more
effectively foreign assistance  Guyana may wish to consider the following: seek to integrate future
externally funded projects into the MOE's structure; identify independent experts in the field who could
advise MOE on the appropriateness of external agencies' proposals; where external support has been
found to have a positive impact, find the funds which will ensure that the successful innovations are
sustained and generalized; if local funds are not available, explicitly seek further external financial
support to consolidate and expand the secondary education reform program, including sustaining the
quality gains made in the SSRP and        designing and implementing      a reform of upper secondary
education and the upgrading of secondary teacher training; seek to tap the new lending instruments
available at the World Bank and the IDB which provide relatively small amounts of funding (usually up
to US$ 10 million), expedited preparation, and rapid disbursement; and explore the possibility of
setting up or designating an NGO which would accept monetary and in kind donations from Guyanese
living overseas to the education system, with a focus on equipment, textbooks, library books, and
training.




                                                  - 47 -

Additional Annex 9. The Three Types of Schools Offering Secondary Education.

The three types of secondary schools and the levels of resources devoted to them vary. As in several other
Caribbean countries, a considerable percentage (about 20 percent) of Guyana's secondary enrollments are
in "all-age" primary schools or "primary tops" where there is a secondary department within a primary
school. Entry into secondary school depends on the scores achieved on the Secondary School Entrance
Examination (SSEE). Generally, students with higher scores are admitted to General Secondary School
(GSS) where there is an opportunity to learn the traditional secondary school subjects and sit for the
Caribbean Examination Council (CXC) exam upon graduation. Others may continue in the Primary Tops
(PT) which offers schooling for three to four years, or opt for Community High Schools (CHS) that offer a
more vocationally oriented curricula. The curriculum offered in PT schools is less rigorous and is often a
repetition of studies at the primary level. At the end of Grade 9 or Form III, there is an opportunity for
students in PT and CHS to transition to GSS if scores are high enough, but an average of only 50 students
each year make the transition. The unit costs of these schools vary widely, with students in GSS two or
three times higher than those in Primary Tops. The wide disparity between the quality and curriculum
offered in the three types of secondary schools leaves students with inequitable opportunities, education,
skills, and preparation for the labor force.

For those students who aspire to continue their education beyond secondary school, entry to the tertiary
level depends on the type of secondary school completed and the scores achieved on the CXC exam.
Technical level courses at vocational and technical colleges are available to CHS graduates, and for GSS
graduates the options are programs at the Cyril Potter Teacher College or University of Guyana.




                                                     - 48 -

- 49 -

