Page  1
                                                      CONFORMED COPY
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2879-GUA
                          Development Credit Agreement
                       (Secondary School Reform Project)
                                   between
                              REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
                                     and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Dated June 21, 1996
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2879-GUA
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1996 between REPUBLIC OF GUYANA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expen-
          ditures in the territories of any country which is not a
Page  2
          member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
          any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
          goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations.".
     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the follow-
ing additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "BOG" means the Bank of Guyana, the Borrower's Central Bank,
established under Chapter 85:02 of the Laws of Guyana (Bank of Guyana
Act);
     (b)  "CIMAT" means a Curriculum, Instructional Materials and
Assessment Team established within MEC as referred to in Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "Guyanese Dollars" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (d)  "Legal Framework" means all laws and regulations related to
Secondary Education in Guyana;
     (e)  "Lower Secondary Education" means grades seventh through
ninth;
     (f)  "MEC" means the Ministry of Education and Cultural Development
of the Borrower;
     (g)  "Non-Pilot School" means a public school of Secondary Education
(other than a Pilot School) which meets the eligibility criteria referred
to in paragraph 3 (c) (iv) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (h)  "Operational Manual" means the manual satisfactory to the
Association and adopted by the Borrower which sets forth, inter alia:
(i) the eligibility criteria and procedures for selecting Pilot
Schools; (ii) the model of a Training Agreement; (iii) the criteria to
be followed in carrying out the survey referred to in Part C.4 of the
Project; and (iv) the Project indicators;
     (i)  "Pilot School" means a public school offering Lower Secondary
Education, which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the
Operational Manual, to be benefitted by the activities to be carried
out under the Project;
     (j)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a Letter
of Agreement dated June 9, 1994 duly countersigned by the Borrower's
representative on June 9, 1994;
     (k)  "Project Secretariat" means the secretariat mentioned in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
     (l)  "Regional Administration" means the office within each of
the Borrower's regions responsible for providing, inter alia, public
services on behalf of the Borrower;
     (m)  "Regional Education Department" means the department within
a Regional Administration responsible for education;
     (n)  "RMT" means the Reform Management Team within MEC which will
provide policy guidance to it during the carrying out of the Project;
     (o)  "School Improvement Plan" means a Pilot School three year
plan, acceptable to the Association, which sets forth, inter alia: (i)
a description of such school's student population and teaching staff;
(ii) the learning objectives for students attending such school; (iii)
the priority areas in educational quality and infrastructure to be
improved in such school; and (iv) the expected national budget to be
Page  3
provided by the Borrower's Ministry of Finance to the corresponding
Regional Administration and to be used by such school in carrying out
the activities referred in the plan, as such plan may be amended from
time to time with the agreement of the Association;
     (p)  "Secondary Education" means grades seventh through eleventh;
     (q)  "SIP Guidelines" means the Borrower's guidelines, satisfactory
to the Association, to be followed by the Borrower in carrying out Part
A.1 (a) of the Project;
     (r)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (s)  "Training Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to
in Section 3.01(d) of this Agreement; and
     (t)  "Training Institution" means an institution, acceptable to the
Association, which will assist MEC in the design and implementation of
the in-service teacher training program referred to in Part A.9 of the
Project.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
     Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR11,800,000).
     Section 2.02.  (a)  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in BOG on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04.  (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a)
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from
the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
Page  4
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06.  Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07.  (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing October
1, 2006 and ending April 1, 2036.  Each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 1, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant
1985 Dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, sub-
sequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development
of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned
repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
     Section 2.08.  The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                               ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MEC, with the
assistance of the RMT, and with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate educational, technical, administrative,
financial, engineering and environmental practices, and in accordance
with the Operational Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above,
the Borrower shall: (i) not later than December 1, 1996 establish a
CIMAT for each of the core subjects of language and mathematics; (ii)
not later than September 1, 1998 establish a CIMAT for each of the
core subjects of science and social studies; (iii) immediately after
each of the CIMATs referred to in (i) and (ii) herein have been
Page  5
established, operate and maintain during Project implementation each
such CIMAT with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association, including, inter alia, the responsibility of assisting
MEC in the preparation of the list of textbooks and teaching and
learning materials to be acquired and distributed by MEC as referred
to in Part A.8 of the Project; and (iv) ensure at all times that each
such CIMAT is staffed with personnel with qualifications satisfactory
to the Association.
     (c)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above,
the Borrower shall not later than September 1, 1996 adopt and implement
the policy referred to in Part A.7 of the Project.
     (d)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above
and in order to carry out Part A.9 of the Project, the Borrower shall
enter in an agreement (the Training Agreement) with a Training
Institution under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including those set forth in the Operational Manual.
     (e)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not amend, assign, suspend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to
enforce any Training Agreement or any provision thereof.
     (f)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above,
the Borrower, through MEC, shall not later than September 1, 1996
employ the personnel referred to in Part C.7 of the Project.
     (g)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above,
the Borrower shall: (i)  make available to MEC each calendar year of
Project implementation, promptly as needed in Guyanese Dollars, as
counterpart funds for the Project, the following minimum amounts:
          Counterpart funds for the Project (in  Dollars equivalent as
          of the first Calendar Year of working day of each calendar
          year of Project Implementation Project implementation)
                     1996      $    38,000
                     1997          156,000
                     1998          256,000
                     1999          320,000
                     2000          360,000
                     2001          346,000
                     2002          311,000
                     2003          143,000
                                 _________
             TOTAL:             $1,930,000
          (ii) not later than March 31 of each year during Project
implementation, starting in 1997, furnish to the Association, for its
review, a copy of the Borrower's budget proposal related to the
education sector in order to demonstrate that the funds necessary
to carry out the Project during the calendar year in question, including
the amount of counterpart funds for such year referred to in (i) herein,
have been included in such budget proposal; and
         (iii) within thirty days after the date in which the Borrower's
budget for the education sector is approved each calendar year, furnish
to the Association a copy of such approved budget.
     Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  For purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future
operation of the Project; and
Page  6
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.04.  (a) The Borrower shall establish within MEC, and
thereafter operate and maintain during Project implementation, a
secretariat (the Project Secretariat) with functions and respon-
sibilities satisfactory to the Association, including, inter alia,
the responsibility to assist MEC in the coordination, monitoring and
implementation of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Secretariat is at
all times headed by a director assisted by a procurement-finance
coordinator, a civil works coordinator, an administrator and staff in
adequate numbers, all with qualifications satisfactory to the
Association.
     Section 3.05.  Without limitations to the provisions of Section
9.06 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish
to the Association not later than March 31 and September 30 of each
year of Project implementation, starting in September 1996, semi annual
reports of such scope and in such detail as the Association may reason-
ably request with respect to the progress made by the Borrower in
carrying out the Project during the semester preceding the date of
presentation of such report.
     Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the
Association not later than October 31 of each year of Project imple-
mentation, starting in 1996, an implementation plan of such scope and
in such detail as the Association may reasonably request with respect
to the specific activities to be carried out under the Project during
the calendar year following the date of presentation of each such plan;
and (b) without limitations to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement carry out such plan in accordance with its terms.
     Section 3.07.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall review jointly with
the Association not later than December 31, 1999 the progress made by
the Borrower in: (a) achieving the objectives of the Project; and (b)
carrying out the Project.  As part of such review, the Association may
require that the Borrower prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the
Association, to make adjustments in Project implementation.  If so, the
Borrower shall furnish such action plan to the Association not later
than thirty days after the conclusion of such review and shall
thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, such action plan in
accordance with its terms.
     Section 3.08.  The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31,
1996 prepare and furnish to the Association, a plan satisfactory to the
Association, to unify the management of Secondary Education; and (b)
not later than December 31, 1997 commence the implementation of the plan
referred to in (a) herein.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
Page  7
          (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
               audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
               as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
               as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association
               has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
               payment out of the Special Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
               and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
         (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.
                                   ARTICLE V
                          Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that
the Legal Framework or any provision thereof shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the ability of the
Borrower to carry out the Project.
     Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that
any event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower;
     (b)  that the Borrower has employed an independent auditor
acceptable to the Association to carry out, for the first calendar year
of Project implementation, the audit mentioned in Section 4.01 (b) of
this Agreement;
     (c)  that the Borrower has furnished to the Association the SIP
Guidelines;
Page  8
     (d)  that the Borrower has established the Project Secretariat and
appointed the director and the coordinators, as provided in Section
3.04 of this Agreement; and
     (e)  that the Borrower has furnished to the Association the
implementation plan corresponding to the first calendar year of Project
implementation, as provided in Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
     Section 6.02.  The date September 18, 1996, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.03.  The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall
terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
                               ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The Senior Minister of the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Ministry of Finance
          Main and Urquhart Streets
          Georgetown, Guyana
          Cable address:               Telex:
               MINFIN                  3038
               Guyana
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:               Telex:
               INDEVAS                 248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.         64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
                    By /s/ Odeen Ishmael
                                               Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Paul Isenman
Page  9
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                         Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                                 Credit                % of
                                Allocated          Expenditures
                              (Expressed in           to be
     Category                SDR Equivalent)         Financed
(1)  Works:
     (a)  for Pilot Schools     3,160,000          85%
          under Parts B.1 and
          B.2 of the Project
     (b)  for Non-Pilot         3,030,000          85%
          Schools under
          Part B.4 of the
          Project
(2)  Goods:
     (a)  for Pilot Schools       550,000)
          under Part B.3 of              )
          the Project                    )         100% of foreign
                                         )         expenditures;
     (b)  under other Parts       420,000)         100% of local
          of the Project                 )         expenditures (ex-
                                         )         factory cost);
                                         )         and 85% of
                                         )         local expendi-
                                         )         tures for other
                                         )         items procured
                                         )         locally
(3)  Consultants' Services:
     (a)  under Part A.1           70,000          100%
          (a) of the Project
     (b)  under Part C.4 of        50,000          100%
          the Project
     (c)  under other Parts     2,390,000          100%
          of the Project
(4)  Training                     280,000          100%
(5)  Operating Expenditures:
     (a)  under Part              100,000          85%
          C.7 of the Project
     (b)  under other Parts       100,000          85%
          of the Project
(6)  Project Preparation          370,000          Amounts due
     Advance                                       pursuant to
                                                   Section 2.02 (c)
                                                   of this Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                1,280,000
                               __________
Page  10
          TOTAL                11,800,000
                               ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for
consultants' services) incurred in connection with the training
activities to be carried under the Project, including the travel
cost and per-diem of the trainees; and
     (d)  the term "Operating Expenditures" means expenditures made
in connection with: (i) salaries of MEC's staff under Part C.7 of the
Project; (ii) office rent, office materials and supplies and utilities
for the Project Secretariat; and (iii) maintenance and operation of
vehicles under the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) and (2)
(a) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the Borrower
has hired a consultant, satisfactory to the Association, to assist MEC
in the preparation of the bidding documents for Part B of the Project
and the supervision of the works to be carried out under such Part of
the Project;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (b) of the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless: (i) the Borrower has met
the condition referred to in (b) above; (ii) the survey referred to in
Part C.4 of the Project has been completed; (iii) the Borrower has
prepared and furnished to the Association a report of such scope and in
such detail as the Association may reasonably request with respect to
the findings of the survey mentioned in (ii) herein; and (iv) the
Borrower has adopted eligibility criteria, satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, for Non-Pilot Schools under Part B.4 of the Project; and
     (d)  payments made for expenditures under Category (3) (b) of the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the guidelines and
standards referred to in Part C.5 of the Project have been designed
and adopted by the Borrower.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under: (a) contracts for goods other than those referred to in (b)
below estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent; (b) contracts
for school and office furniture estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent with the exception of the first contract to be awarded
each year of Project implementation under Part C.2 (a) of Section I
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (c) contracts for works estimated to
cost less than $500,000 equivalent with the exception of the first
contract for works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent to
be awarded under Part C.2 (b) of Section I of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement; (d) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent; (e) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than
$10,000 equivalent; and (f) Training and Operating Expenditures as
set forth in Categories (4) and (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, respectively, all under such terms and conditions as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  11
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the
design and implementation of the first phase of a long-term education
reform program which will improve the quality, equity and efficiency
of Secondary Education, through: (i) the design and implementation of
measures to improve the quality and efficiency of Lower Secondary
Education in Pilot Schools; (ii) the improvement of school infra-
structure in Pilot Schools and Non-Pilot Schools; and (iii) the
strengthening of the institutional capacity of MEC and the Regional
Education Departments.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Educational Quality Improvements
1.   (a)  Design of a School Improvement Plan for each Pilot School in
accordance with the SIP Guidelines; and (b) implementation of the plan
referred to in (a) herein, including the provision of training required
therefor.
2.   Provision of training to the school administrators of Pilot Schools
on school management, educational leadership, communication skills and
community relations.
3.   Design and implementation of a curriculum (consisting of language,
mathematics, science, social studies and reading) for students attending
Lower Secondary Education in Pilot Schools.
4.   Design of guidelines to implement the curriculum mentioned in Part
A.3 above, including the distribution of such guidelines to all public
schools offering Lower Secondary Education.
5.   Provision of training to MEC's staff in order to strengthen MEC's
capability to implement curricula.
6.   Implementation of an experimental resource and technology curriculum
(other than the curriculum referred to in Part A.3 above) in selected
Pilot Schools.
7.   Design of a national policy for the selection, acquisition,
distribution, replacement, re-selection and funding of textbooks.
8.   Preparation of a basic library list of textbooks and teaching and
learning materials for students and teachers of Pilot Schools,
respectively, including the acquisition and distribution of such
textbooks and materials in accordance with such list.
9.   Design and implementation of an in-service teacher training program
for teachers of Pilot Schools in accordance with the activities set
forth in each plan referred to in Part A.1 above.
10.  Provision of training to school supervisors of Pilot Schools in
classroom observation,teacher supervision and monitoring of student
performance and achievement.
Part B:   School Facilities
1.   Rehabilitation of school infrastructure in Pilot Schools, including
the construction of new classrooms in such schools.
2.   Construction of multi-purpose laboratories in Pilot Schools.
3.   Acquisition and utilization of the necessary equipment and furni-
ture for the Pilot Schools referred to in Parts B.1 and B.2 above.
4.   Carrying out of emergency repair works in Non-Pilot Schools.
Page  12
Part C:   Institutional Strengthening
1.   Provision of technical assistance to MEC in order to assist it in
the carrying out of the Project.
2.   Drafting and implementation of guidelines to be followed by MEC in
the review and approval of the education budget.
3.   Strengthening of MEC and the Regional Education Departments'
capacity, through the provision of training and the acquisition and
utilization of the goods required therefor.
4.   Carrying out of a survey of the school infrastructure of public
schools in Guyana in accordance with the guidelines and standards
referred to in Part C.5 below and the criteria set forth in the
Operational Manual.
5.   Design of school design guidelines and school building standards
to serve as objective points of reference for the carrying out of the
survey referred to in Part C.4 above.
6.   Carrying out of a school mapping survey of public schools in
Guyana in order to provide, inter alia, information on student demo-
graphy, qualifications of teachers and school assets (other than school
infrastructure as referred to in Part C.4 above) to the system referred
to in Part C.7 below.
7.   Design and implementation of a school information system, including
the hiring of personnel and the acquisition and utilization of the
necessary equipment, required therefor.
8.   Carrying out of a nationwide campaign in order to inform the public
with respect to: (a) the views and concerns of the education sector
stakeholders (which include, inter alia, school principals, supervisors,
teachers, parents and Regional Administrations) regarding the contents
of the first-phase of the education reform to be designed and implemented
under the Project; and (b) the progress made in carrying out the first-
phase of the reform mentioned in (a) herein.
9.   Design of the second-phase of the education reform mentioned in
Part C.8 above.
                                   * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Page  13
     (a)  Grouping of Contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more each and $1,000,000 or more each, respectively.
     (b)  Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Limited International Bidding
     Goods (other than school and office furniture), which the Associa-
tion agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers,
regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.   National Competitive Bidding
     (a)  School and office furniture estimated to cost $50,000 equiva-
lent or more but less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of
the Guidelines.
     (b)  Works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more but less
than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $5,900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guide-
lines.
     (c)  In the procurement of the goods and works referred to in this
Part, the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents acceptable to
the Association.
3.   International Shopping
     Goods (including school and office furniture) estimated to cost
$10,000 equivalent or more but less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $150,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guide-
lines.
4.   National Shopping
     Goods (including school and office furniture) estimated to cost
less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $50,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.   Procurement of Small Works
     Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be
procured under lumpsum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the
required completion date, basic form of agreement acceptable to the
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall
be made to the contractor who offers the lowest quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully
complete the contract.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  14
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished by the
Borrower to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Associa-
tion, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to: (a) each contract for goods and works to be
awarded under Part B of this Section; (b) each contract for goods
(other than school and office furniture) to be awarded under Part
C.1 of this Section; (c) the first contract for school and office
furniture to be awarded each year of Project implementation under
Part C.2 (a) of this Section; and (d) each contract for works
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more and the first contract
for works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent to be
awarded each year of Project implementation under Part C.2 (b) of
this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Asso-
ciation. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued
by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall
be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $10,000equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Association review
shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association; (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $10,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                             Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Page  15
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals [from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions] shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR2,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
               which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each
               such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower,  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid out
               of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
Page  16
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
