Report No. 666a-IVC
Appraisal of a
Tourism Development Project
Ivory Coast
April28, 1975                                                                 FILE  COPY
Tourism Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the international Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Croup. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Croup authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



IVORY COAST
APPRAISAL OF A TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
'I
Currency Unit:           CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00            =     CFAF 225
CFAF 1            =      US$0.00444
CFAF 1,000               US$4.44
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO           =   Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BNDA           =   Banque Nationale de Dëveloppement Agricole
BIDI           =   Banque Ivoirienne de Développement Industriel
CAA            =   Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE           =   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CCI            =   Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire
COFINCI        =   Compagnie Financiere de la Cote d'Ivoire
EIB            =   European Investment Bank
EECI           =   Energie Electrique de la Cote d'Ivoire
ICTA           =   Ivory Coast Travel Agency
ONAA           =   Office National d'Artisanat et d'Art
SIETHO         =   Société Ivoirienne d'Expansion Touristique
et Hoteliere
SICOGI         =   Société Ivoirienne de Construction et de
Gestion Immobilière
SONAFI              Société Nationale de Financement
FISCAL YEAR
Borrower : January 1 - December 31
C C I     : October 1 - September 30
1/ The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc in the ratio of 1 French
Franc to 50 CFAF. The French Franc is currently floating.



IVORY COAST
APPRAISAL OF A TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY                                                   i-ii
1.  INTRODUCTION                                                1
2.  BACKGROUND                                                  1
A.  The Economy                                             1
B.  The Tourism Sector                                     2
C.  Financial Environment                                  5
3.  THE PROJECT                                                 5
A.  Introduction                                            5
B.  Line of Credit                                         6
C.  Technical Assistance                                   8
D.  Market Study                                           9
E.  Procurement and Disburser,-nt                         10
4.  THE COMPANY                                                10
A.  Introduction                                          10
B.  Board, Management and Staff                           il
C. Appraisal and Follow-up                                12
D.  Disbursement and Procurement Procedures               12
E.  Resources, Operations and Portfolio                   12
F.  Profitability, Financial Condition and Audit          15
G.  Prospects                                             16
5.  JUSTIFICATION                                             17
A.  Market                                                17
B. Investment Climate and Additional
Hotel Requirements                                    17
C.  Economic Aspects                                      18
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                     19.
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited the Ivory Coast in November 1974. The mission consisted of
Messrs. Christie, Bauer, Benbrahim (Tourism Projects); Nouvel and
Bloom (DFC, Africa); Fresco (Consultant); and Koenig (Programs,
West Africa).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
LIST OF ANNEXES AND MAPS
ANNEXES
I         : Market Demand and Hotel Development
II        : The Tourism Sector
III       : Financial Environment
IV           Crédit de la Cote d'Ivoire, Tables and Exhibits
V         : Suggested Checklist for CCI's Hotel Appraisal
VI           Profiles of Adviser and Consultants
VII          Selected Hotel Projects under Preparation
VIII         Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
MAPS
Map l     : Main Existing Hotels and New Projects in Abidjan
(IBRD 11392)
Map 2     : Areas of Existing and Potential Tourism Development
(IBRD 11393)



IVORY COAST
APPRAISAL OF A TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.          This report appraises a tourism development project designed
to provide long-term credit for the construction of new hotels and tech-
nical assistance for strengthening the tourism sector in the Ivory Coast.
ii.         Between 1970 and 1973 international arrivals in Ivory Coast
hotels increased from 45,000 to 71,000, equivalent to a growth rate of
17% per annum. Arrivals are expected to reach about 157,000 by 1980.
These arrivals would comprise about 85% business visitors and 15% tourists.
iii.        In Abidjan, even though the number of hotel rooms has doubled
since 1970, hotels are fully booked (annual room occupancy 75-85%), for
long periods of the year. It is estimated that approximately 1,200 addi-
tional hotel rooms will be necessary by 1980. The total cost of these
hotels is estimated to be CFAF 10,800 million (US$48 million). Of this,
CFAF 4,320 million (US$19.2 million) would be required as long-term debt.
The Bank loan would finance about half of this long-term debt requirement.
iv.         The proposed project would include a line of credit to provide
long-term loans for the construction of new hotels (US$9 million), a tech-
nical assistance component (US$0.45 million), and a market study (US$0.25
million). Creédit de la Cote d'Ivoire (CCI), as the intermediary, would
channel Bank funds, assist in investment promotion and appraise and super-
vise subprojects. The technical assistance component would provide an
adviser to CCI and two consultants (in marketing and hotel engineering/
architecture) to the Ministry of Tourism to assist the Government in
analyzing the tourism sector and appraising hotel projects. The main
objective of the market study would be to develop a tourism marketing
plan for the Ivory Coast.
v.          The Government has for several years given priority to the
tourism sector. In the 1960s, it invested about US$30 million equivalent
in hotel facilities and tourism infrastructure. Upon completion of this
initial investment, the Government decided to leave construction of new
hotels to the private sector.  It will encourage such investment by pro-
viding infrastructure in certain areas and by awarding selected fiscal
incentives to entrepreneurs.
vi.    1    A major constraint to the continuing development of the hotel
sector is the lack of adequate sources of long-term debt financing on
suitable terms. The Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel (BIDI),



- ii -
the only Ivorian financial institution which bas committed signifîcant
funds to the tourism sector, intends to limit its participation in the
future. No international source of financing at terms suitable for the
orderly development of the hotel sector is available to the Ivory Coast
throughl conventional channels in sufficient amounts.
ViL         CCI is a multipurpose development bank owmed principally by
the Government. Its Director General for the past eight years is an able
manager who has assembled a competent team of experienced executives and
staff. CCI's portfolio appears sound with approximately 42% of total
amounts outstanding in housing loans, 37% in industry, commerce and trade
and 217, in consumer loans. It has diversified its sources of funds and
has obtained loans from Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique (CCCE),
the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO), USAID and
the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), which manages the country's
external debt.
-ziii.      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$9.7 million
eçuivalent with a flexible amortization schedule conforming substantially
to the aggregate amortization schedules of subprojects, none of which in
principle should exceed 20 years.  The loan would be made to the govern-
ment and passed through CAA to CCI at the same interest rate as the Bank
loan. The technical assistance and marketing study would be amortized
over the first 5 years of loan repayment. CCI would charge 10.5% on its
hotel loans, plus a fee of 1% on behalf of the Governnent to cover the
foreign exchange risk. The free limit would be US$500,000 equivalent,
with an aggregate of US$2.5 million.



IVORY COAST
APPRAISAL OF A TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01        In 1974 the Ivorian Government requested Bank assistance to
develop its tourism industry. A project identification and preparation
mission in June 1974 formulated the present project. It would consist
of a line of credit to CCI to provide long-term loans for hotel construction
and technical assistance to develop tourism.
1.02        CCI was founded in 1955 as a multipurpose development bank.
It now has a majority Government shareholding (75%); CCCE and BCEAO hold
the remainder, 17% and 8% respectively. The proposed loan, together with
the proposed small-scale enterprise loan currently under preparation,
would be the Bank Group's first loans to CCI.
1.03        This would be the first Bank loan for tourism in the Ivory
Coast.
2. BACKGROUND
A. The Economy
2.01        An analysis of the Ivory Coast's economy is given in the
report, "Current Economic Situation and Prospects of the Ivory Coast"
(296-IVC) dated April 11, 1974.
2.02        During the Ivory Coast's first decade of independence, 1960-70,
GDP grew at 7.5% per annum in real terms. The rate of growth declined to
6% in 1971 and 1972, which is still a strong performance. The rate of
inflation was below 5% until 1973; it has increased since then but is
expected to remain below 10% for the next few years.
2.03        The economy is based on agriculture, which employs 75% of the
labor force and contributes about one-third to GDP. The three traditional
exports, coffee, cocoa and timber account for 75% of total exports.
Since independence, the country has generally maintained a trade surplus.
2.04        In order to maintain a high growth rate and reduce its dependence
on traditional agricultural exports, the Government is taking measures to
diversify the economy. New crops (palm oil, cotton, sugar, bananas, etc.)
have been introduced and are expected to contribute significantly to



-2 -
exports, leading to a decline in the relative importance of traditional
exports from 757e to 60%/c of total exports by 1980.  Manufacturing, which
now accounts for 12% of GDP, is also being encouraged.
2,05        Tourism is seen in the context of the program of diversifi-
cation as an additional source of income, employment ,and foreign exchange
earnings.  Further, the creatiora of new hotels particularlv in Abidjan
would stubstantially improve the general business climate by providing
suitable accommodations for the international visitors who are increasingly
attracted to the Ivory Coast because of the country's stable ecunomic
record and good future prospects.
B. The Tourism Sector
2.06        The Ivorv Coast has only recently emerged as a tourism desti-
nation principally because of its modern capital, Abidjan, a leading
metropo-Litan city in West Afrîca. The city enjoys a fine location on a
lagoon, a beautiful network of calm, protected waters stretching for
about 100 kms. Its numerous restaurants and nightclubs offer varied,
high quality, international cuisine and entertainment.  Abidjan is also
fast becoming a center for African art which is abundant in the colorful
markets of the city.  The tropical vegetation of the interior is brilliart
in season and provides an intriguing contrast to the lagoon areas of
Assinie and Grand Bassam. Finally, an asset of considerable importance
is the friendly and receptive attitude of the Ivorian people towards
visitors.
2.07        In spite of these attractions, several obstacles to tourism
developmient have kept the Ivory Coast little known among pleasure tourists.
Transportation costs are high not only because of the country's relative
distance from the main tourism-generating markets but also because of low
traffic densities. The climate is hot and humid from May to September,
and although there are fine beaches the sea can be dangerous for swim-
ming. Lastly, efforts to promote the country and develop a favorable
tourism image abroad have been inadequate.
2.08        During 1970, the first year in which tourism statistics were
kept, there were an estimated 45,000 foreign arrivals in the Ivory Coast.
During the ensuing 3 years arrivals increased at an average annual rate
of 17% to reach 71,000 in 1973. By 1980, arrivals are forecast to reach
about 157,000 led by the continued expansion of business traffic and a
modest growth in pleasure travel (Annex I).
2.09        In 1973 business-related traffic dominated the market (85%
of total arrivals). Consequently, the country enjoys a fairly even flow
of traffic throughout the year with a slight dip in the level of arrivals
from May to August. Pleasure tourists accounted for 15% of international
arrivals. About one-half of these were on circuit tours of West Africa
which iucluded one or two nights in Abidjan; the balance stayed at the
beach resorts of Assinie and Assouindé, mostly in the high season from
October to April, which corresponds to the off season in many other countries.
About 70% of hotel arrivals are foreign. Of these, about 50% are French; 12%



- 3 -
are from African countries; 10% from the United States; of the remainder,
Italy and Germany are the most important with 5-6% each. Domestic travel
accounts for 30% of the total number of arrivals in hotels. The
average length of stay for foreign business visitors is four or five nights
and for beach tourists six to eight nights (Annex I, Tables 1 to 5).
2.10        Total hotel capacity in the Ivory Coast has doubled since 1970
to 2,844 rooms in 1974, with 56% in Abidjan, 19% on the beach and 35% in
the interior of the country. In Abidjan, hotels of international standard
(1,150 rooms) operate at close to maximum room occupancy (75-85%). The
high occupancies in the capital city have been one of the factors limiting
the growth of vacation traffic. Most of the international hotels in Abidjan
and about half of all hotels in the country are run by international hotel
management companies. The public sector owns 60% of the hotels, including
the Hôtel Ivoire and those of the Société Ivoirienne  d'Expansion Touristique
et Hôteliere (SIETHO). (Annex II, Tables 2 and 3).
2.11        Tariffs in the Ivory Coast hotels are high; average room rates
range from about US$24 in luxury hotels, to US$13-15 in three star hotels,
to US$16-17 for hotels in the interior. Operating costs, however, are
also high since a great deal of food, beverages, supplies and fuel for
energy is imported. In addition, payrolls have been increasing rapidly
in recent months. On balance, the mission estimates that well-conceived
hotel projects should reach acceptable profit levels with gross operating
profits of 25-35% of sales and breakeven room occupancy of 60-62% (after all
financial charges).
2.12        Construction costs have varied considerably in the past,
depending on the purpose, style, size and category of hotel. Hotels built
during 1970-73 (Annex II, Table 4) averaged about CFAF 5.5 million
(US$24,500) per room. Since no hotel has been completed within the last
18 months, recent data on hotel costs are unavailable; the latest cost
estimates for city projects currently under consideration are shown in
Annex VII and range from CFAF 4.8 million (US$21,300) per room for a three-
star business hotel in Abidjan to CFAF 10 million (US$44,400) per room for
a four-star deluxe hotel in Abidjan.
2.13        In 1973 gross foreign exchange receipts from tourism amounted
to approximately US$14 million (excluding transportation) compared to an
estimated US$8 million in 1970. The hotel industry employs an estimated
3,000 people at the present time, exclusive of those in construction; an
equal number is estimated to be indirectly employed in tourism-related
services.
2.14        Between 1964-1974 the Government invested US$60 million in
superstructure and infrastructure in the tourism sector. These expenditures
comprised direct investment in infrastructure at Assinie, hotel investments
including the Hôtel Ivoire (47%), operating subsidies (19%) and direct
loans (34%). Now that the major infrastructure is in place in Abidjan and
Assinie a constraint limiting growth of the sector is removed. Accordingly,
the Government's current policy is to leave hotel construction to private
initiative. To encourage private investment, a Tourism Incentive Code was
introduced in 1973 (Law No. 73-368), administered by the Ministry of



- 4 -
Planning with the cooperation of the Ministries of Tourism and Finance.
The incentives under this code include exemption from customs, excise
and value added taxes on imported materials and equipment required for
the construction of the project; and up to seven years' exemption from
income tax, real estate taxes, sales tax, license fees and several other
local taxes (Annex II). These incentives (similar to those offered under
the Ivorian industrial incentives code) are considered reasonable and
less objectionable in terms of resource misallocation than other alter-
natives such as grants and interest rebates common in other tourism
destinations. Moreover, now that the Governnent has turned hotel invest-
ment over to the private sector, the incentives may play a role in stimu-
lating investment during the transitional period for both business and
vacation hotels. The incentives will be selectively awarded based on
the merits of individual projects on a case by case basis (para. 4.26).
2.15        The Government intends to encourage tourism development only
in zones assigned priority by the Ministry of Tourism, currently limited
to Abidjan and the Assinie-Grand Bassam region, In these areas the Govern-
ment will continue to provide minor infrastructure (through the Budget
Spécial pour l'Investissement et l'Equipement) for tourism projects which
are awarded assistance under the Incentive Code. The coastal areas (of
which Assinie and Grand Bassam comprise only a small section) all have
the same building regulations which are sound and provide good environ-
mental protection.
2.16        Land in these coastal areas is owned by the State.  The Govern-
ment leases hotel sites on a long-term basia to developers who file a
request with the Minister of Tourism. The rates are attractive to investors
and the system of leasing avoids land speculation. In urban areas, land
is privately owned, and real estate titles are freely transferable
(Annex II).
2.17        The Ministry of Tourism is responsible for the development of
tourism. Created in December 1971 (Annex II), its functions are to
identify zones for tourism development, promote the Ivory Coast as a
tourist destination, regulate and control the sector and coordinate public
and private activities in tourism. The Ministry has four departments which
cover the above functions and also supervises the hotel-owning and manage-
ment company SIETHO, the Ivory Coast Travel Agency (ICTA) and the National
Handicrafts Organization (ONAA).
2.18        An important aspect of the Ministry of Tourism's work is the
technical evaluation of projects to ensure that architectural, engineering
and environmental aspects are sound and that all permits necessary for
construction have been obtained. The Ministry grants the "agré'ment profes-
sionnel" or government approval which is necessary before a promoter
proceeds with any tourism project (Decree No. 72-488, By-law 8/MET/DR) and
before an application for incentives under the Tourism Incentive Code is
considered.
2.19        There are no formal hotel-training facilities in the Ivory
Coast. Operational staff are trained on the job; candidates for manage-
ment positions must go to hotel schools abroad. The Government is aware
of the importance of training and is now negotiating with the Canadian
International Development Agency for the construction and operation of a



- 5 -
hotel traîning center. The school will train operational staff for lower-
level jobs and will graduate 120 students annually starting in 1976.
C. Financial Environment
2.20        The Ivory Coast is a member of the West African Monetary Union
established in 1962 and composed of seven countries with a common central
bank, the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO).
Financial institutions (Annex III, Table 1) in the Ivory Coast include four
commercial banks, three development banks, two leasing institutions, CAA
wiich manages the public debt, the Socieée Nationale de Financement (SONAFI)
which participates directly in projects of national interest, and a Guarantee
Fund which guarantees credits to small enterprises.
2.21        Tourism projects are financed by the commercial and development
banks. The commercial banks make short- and medium-term loans, those to
hotel projects (usually for equipment) for two to seven years (current
interest rate, 8-9%) rediscountable at BCEAO. The only development bank
which has invested significantly in the hotel industry is BIDI, a DFC esta-
blished in 1965 in which IFC holds 7.1% of the equity. BIDI's hotel loans
have been for 10 to 12 years at interest rates of 10-11%. BIDI also makes
medium-term rediscountable loans at 7.5-8.25% suitable for financing hotel
equipment. The few nondiscountable medium-term loans made carry an interest
rate of 11% fixed by BCEAO.  The appraisal mission was informed that BIDI is
reducing its activity in the hotel sector (now over 11% of its loan approvals),
in order to concentrate on industrial projects.
2.22        In the absence of other institutions willing to finance hotels
such as insurance companies, pension funds or mortgage banks, the remaining
source is the Eurodollar market. This provides mostly medium-term finance
at currently high interest rates and may well require a government guarantee.
Potential sources of long-term hotel financing in the Ivory Coast are there-
fore quite limited.
2.23        Tlie financial environment is covered more fully in Annex III.
3. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
3.01        The proposed project would include:
(a) a line of credit (US$9 million) to provide
long-term loans for the construction of
new hotels;
(b) technical assistance (US$0.45 million) in
the form of one technical adviser to assist
CCI in implementing the project and two
consultants attached to the Ministry of
Tourism, one of wlhom woul.d be responsible



-6-
for technical evaluation of hotel projects
and the other for marketing; and
(c)  a market study (US$0.25 million).
3.02          The loan amount would thus be US$9.7 minlion equivalent.  It
is proposed that the Bank loan be made to the Government through CAA, which
would channel funds to the executing agencies on the same terms as the
Bank loan.  The Bank would enter into a project agreement with CCI which
would receive the hotel credit funds and part of the technical assistance
funds; the Ministry of Tourism would receive the balance of the funds for
technical assistance and the marketing study.
B. Line of Credit
3.03         The line of credit would be used to provide long-term debt
financing for a portion of the foreign exchange cost of hotel construction
which is estimated at between 50% and 60% of total cost. It is expected
that hotels would range in size from about 15 to 400 rooms and that a
total of roughly 1,200 hotel rooms would be financed under the project
in the period 1975-80 (para. 5.03).  Commitment of the funds is expected
to be completed by the end of 1978. Agreement was reached'during nego-
tiations that proceeds of the Bank loan would be used for constructing
new hotels only in the priority areas of Abidjan, Assinie an& Grand Bassam
(para. 2.15) which have building regulations acceptable to the Bank unless
prior agreement to the contrary is obtained from the Bank.
3.04         Of the 42 hotel projects already submitted to the Ministry of
Tourism for the agrement professionnel, several are in an advanced state
of preparation and are likely to materialize (Annex VII). It is estimnated
that the first project (a 400-room business/tourism hotel in Abidjan) could
be ready for construction by late 1975. The availability of Bank funds is
expectecl to stimulate preparation of additional projects.
3.05         Most hotels under the project are expected to be managed
initially by expatriate companies, although plans to "Ivorianize" opera-
tions wculd be part of any management contract. Hotels built in Abidjan
would likely be international business facilities of three to five star
category' with the revenue potential necessary to cover both management
fees and returns to investors and lenders. Several international manage-
ment companies of good reputation are currently seeking management contracts
in the Ivory Coast and are working with identifièd Ivorian and foreign
investors.  It is expected that smaller properties would be promoted and
managed directly by Ivorians.
3.06         In order to ensure reasonable prospects of fair returns to
investors, managers and lenders, agreement was reached during negotiations
on the following points: Projects would be sponsored predominantly by
local and foreign private promoters (in line with the Government's policy
ol leavinlg hotel development to the private sector), although this does



not preclude some Government participation. Elotel zafiagers wou'd bc exe-
rienced hotellers and would be encouragea to cake an equity participation in
the hotels they manage. Financing plans would be as follows:
% of
Source          Total Term              Total Cost
Less than 100 rooms;
Equity                 Promoters                                   20-40%
Long-term loans        C C I            Up to 20 yrs.              40-60%
Medium-term loans      Commercial &    Up to 7 yrs.                   20%
and/or supplier        development
credits                bar.ks, local
& foreign;
suppliers
More than 100 rooms:
Equity                 Promoters                                      40%/
Long-term loans        CCI and other   Up to 20 yrs.                  40%
institutions
Medium-term loans      As above         Up to 7 yrs.                  20%
and/or supplier
credits
Large hotels, say those over 175 rooms, will require complementary sources
of long-term debt financing because of CCI's exposure ceiling of CFAF 635
million (para. 4.18). For such projects, CCI would use Bank funds to pro-
vide an average 50% of long-term debt (the exact percentage would be
determined by the size of an individual project, its classification and
cost per room). To obtaîn additional deDt financing for such projects
the Government and the Bank have approached other international agencies.
CCCE and the European Investment Bank (EIB) have expressed interest in
participating in individual subprojects but not before 1976. IFC is
reviewing the first subproject with a view to possible participation.
3.07        The terms of the subloans would vary according to the type of
project (beach or city), and specific financial and economic considerations.
Loans would be tailored to such hotel characteristics as long construction
periods and economic life, and slow build-up of revenue in the early years
of operation. Agreement was reached during negotiations that matu-
rities would not exceed 20 years and that grace periods would not exceed
5 years (that is, the construction period and first 2 to 3 years of opera-
tion). The proposed interest rate on subloans would be as follows:



- 8 -
% per annum
Cost of Bank loan                                        8.5
CCI spread                                                2.0
10.5
Foreign exchange risk (fee to Government)                 1.0
Cost to subborrowers                                    11.5
This is somewhat above current long-term rates in the Ivory Coast (para. 2.21l
but given the longer maturities of the Bank loan for hotel construction,
it should still be attractive. CCI's spread of 2.0% should give adequate
compensation for its costs and risks (para. 4.20). Given expected inflation
rates, the effective cost of funds is expected to be positive over the life
of the project.
3.08        Subloans would be made on the basis of appraisals prepared by
CCI. A suggested outline for appraisal reports on large hotels is given
in Annex V; appraisal of small subprojects would be more suînAry. Agree-
ment was reached during negotiacions on economic appraisal ot sub-
projects in accordance with Bank guidelines for DFCs. CCI's appraisal
capabilities would be strengthened by the addition of an adviser to the
Operations Department (para. 3.10). As all promoters are expected to
apply for incentives offered under the Tourism Incentive Code, CCI's
representative on the committee which grants these incentives (para. 4.26)
would ensure its involvement in potential subprojects at an early stage._
An individual subproject free limit of US$500,000 equivalent would permit
CCI to approve small subprojects of up to 40 rooms; the aggregate free
limit would be US$2.5 million to permit the Bank to review subprojects
amounting to 72% of the total credit component. Subprojects shove this
limit would be subject to approval by the Bank. Agreement was al8o
reached during negotiations on procedures for regular reports as well as
those on the status of subprojects from their identification through
imp lementation.
3.09        Effective follow-up procedures would be established.  Subbor-
rowers would be required to set up accounting and control procedures based
on the Uniform System of Accounts for Hotels (copies of which have been
given to CCI) or on another accounting and control system acceptable to
the Bank. A quarterly review would be made by CCI of financiql statements
and key operating statistics for each of its hotel borrowers, and hotels
would be required to submit annual financial statements audited by
independernt auditors acceptable to CCI. CCI would follow elosely
the Ministry of Tourism's reports on standards of service in the hotels
it finances.
C. Technical Assistance
3.10        It would be a condition of effectiveness that an adviser
(Cow!cei1er Technique) with qualificatwons and experience satisfactory to



- 9 -
the Bank be recruited by CCI for a period of up to two years. Require-
ments for the position and a summary job description are given in Annex
VI. The adviser's primary function, absorbing perhaps two-thirds of his
time, would be to assist in the promotion, organization and appraisal of
hotel subprojects, introduce follow-up procedures and advise the Ministry
of Tourism on financial aspects of hotel projects. The balance of his
time would be devoted to the proposed small-scale enterprise project
currently under appraisal by the Bank.  He would help establish appraisal
and supervision policies and procedures and coordinate CCI's activities
with the technical assistance agencies. Eighty percent of the cost of the
adviser would be financed under the proposed loan, and CCI would service
this debt.
3.11         Appointment of two consultants in the Ministry of Tourism,
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, for up to
two years would be a condition of loan effectiveness. They would work
with Ivorian counterparts and would considerably bolster the Ministry of
Tourism's capability in two key areas. A hotel architect/engineer would
be responsible for technical evaluation of hotel projects submitted to the
Ministry and would codify the standards and procedures for such evaluation.
He would also supplement CCI's existing expertise in real estate and
construction by advising it on technical aspects of hotel projects submit-
ted for financing under the line of credit. The second consultant would
implement the marketing program (para. 3.13) and advise CCI on promotion
of tourism in general and of specific projects submitted for financing
under the line of credit. The consultants would be assigned to the Projects
and Promotion Departments; the marketing consultant would assist in imple-
menting the marketing study. Assurances were received during negotiations
that these arrangements would be implemented. These experts and related
expenses would be financed 80% by the Bank loan and the Government would
service this debt. Requirements for the positions and summary job des-
criptions are given in Annex VI.
3.12         The mission explored the possibility of bilateral and multi-
lateral financing for the technical assistance with no positive results.
UNDP was approached but funds under the Indicative Planning Figure for
1975-76 are fully committed.
D. Market Study
3.13         The objectives of the market study proposed under the project
are to define the tourism potential of the Ivory Coast (including regions
for priority development) and the country's tourism product; review the
marketing effort currently carried out by the Ministry, SIETHO and ICTA;
develop a tourism marketing program for the country and recommend the
administrative structure and budget to achieve marketing goals. The
study would be carried out by the Ministry of Tourism by consultants
acceptable to the Bank and would take an estimated 36-40 man months
to complete (6 to 8 calendar months). Terms of reference acceptable to



- 10 -
the Bank have been prepared and invitations to bid sent out. It is pro-
posed that the Bank retroactively finance the study up to US$100,000
equivalant.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
3.14        Procurement would be according to CCI's procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank but since CCI has rarely lent for such large
independent projects, its established procedures do not cover the larger
contracts expected under the project. Normally, building contracts would
be awarcled on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally. However,
for contracts estimated to be in excess of US$1 million equivalent, assurances
were received during negotiations that international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines would be used. It is expected that
most corntracts would be awarded to Ivorian firms.
3.15        Because of the diversity of items, and also the brand preferences
of hotel promoters, it is expected that equipment and furniture contracts
would be made up of small packages. Equipment and furniture for a 100-room
hotel, for example, would cost between an estimated US$600,000 and 800,QOO,
made up of 6 to 10 small packages. Contracts for the supply of furniture
and equipment would be awarded either on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally or on the basis of prudent shopping in accordance with
CCI's procedures. It is expected that most furniture contracts would be
won by local manufacturers and most equipment contracts by foreign manu-
facturers.
3.16        The loan would finance only foreign expenditures and would
be disbuirsed to meet:
(a) 35% of the contract price for civil works
and construction contracts;
(b) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment
and furniture and of the cost of the marketing
study;
(c) 40% of the cost of locally purchased equipment
and furniture; and
(d) 80% of the cost of technical assistance.
4. THE COMPANY
A. Introduction
4.01        CCI is a multipurpose development bank established in 1955.
It now has a majority Government shareholding (75%); CCCE holds 17% and
BCEAO the remaining 8%. CCI finances housing, industry, trade, artisans,
small household equipment and automobiles; it may provide short-, medium-



and lolg-tcm ioans, ecîulty partJicLpaLions anG guardantee(    C OrivatL Gr
public corporationis and inaiviiuais.
4.02        At _he time the proposed project was conceived, tnere was somte
question as to wnether CCI or BIDI should serve as the intermedîary. BIDI,
however, wished to reduce its exposure in hotel loans and was unwilling to
undertake a major effort in the sector. Having determined that CC! is a
well-managed independent institution with expertise in financing construction
projects the Bank agreed with the Government that CCI is suitable as the
intermediary. CCI is also expected to serve as intermediary for a proposed
small-scale enterprise Bank project currently under appraisal.
B. Board, Management and Staff
4.03        The Board of Directors consists of nine Government-appointed
officials, two representatives of CCCE and one from BCEAO (Annex IV,
Exhibit B). The Board meets about every two months and considers in full
session only the largest loans or those which present policy issues; the
full Board discussed some 100 loans accounting for 607e of all amounts approved
in fiscal 1974. A "select committee" approves most routine loans, and
those below CFAF 2.5 million are approved by the Director General. A
Government Commissioner, named by the Minister of Finance, has a veto over
Board decisions but has never exercised this power.
4.04        Appolnted by the Board, the present Director General has been
at CCI almost since its founding and has spent the last eight years in his
present position. He has managed the institution well and is supported by
three department heads, each of whon has over eight years' experience at
CCI. In 1974 the staff numbered 154 including 19 professionals and 135
nonprofessionals (Annex IV, Table 1); 2 staff members, who are currently
being trained at CCCE's training institute, will rejoin the Operations
Department in 1975. In addition, of the nonprofessional staff, about
25-30 are well-trained and experienced in executing the more routine
lending worK at CCI.
4.05        CCI has three main departments (Annex IV, Exhibit C).  The
Finance and Administration Department is charged with accounting and
administration. The Operations Department is divided into three divisions:
the Technical Division which supervises construction financed by CCI; the
Execution Division which prepares legal documents, controls disbursements
and executes guarantees when necessary; and the Credit Division which is
responsible for preparation and appraisal of loans. Lastly, the four
branch offices are grouped administratively as the third department under
the Inspector General.
4.06        CCI's operaLillg policies are set out in its By-laws (Reglement
Intérieur) which are approved by a three-quarters majority of the Board.
The By-laws establish minimum and maximum balance sheet relationships
between categories of assets and liabilities and set terms and conditions
of loans (including spread, maturities, minimum equity, use of proceeds
and acceDtable guarantees). Although these are generally satisfactory,
assurances were obtained at negotiarions that certain modifications which
were suggested during appraisal (paras. 4.18 and 4.21) will be incorporated
in the revised By-laws.



- 12 -
C. Appraisal and Follow-up
4.07        Appraisal of small loans for housing, household equipment and
automobiles consists of a routine check of the proposed purchases and
security offered; the sheer number of these loans (over 12,000 in fiscal
1974) gives CCI a reasonable basis for judgment of individual applications.
Applications for larger loans to housing corporations, industry, commerce
and communities are subject to thorough review and, if necessary, modifi-
cation by the Credit Division. These appraisals are generally competently
executed, but the economic evaluation is restricted to verifying Govern-
ment approval of the project. There is little follow-up after disburse-
ment due to staffing constraints. Under the proposed project the adviser
and the Ivorian staff assigned to the project would help alleviate this
situation; the additional staff in the Operations Department (para. 4.04)
should improve CCI's overall follow-up and appraisal capability.
D. Disbursement and Procurement Procedures
4.08        CCI's control of disbursement and procurement is good.
Disbursement to suppliers or construction contractors is only effected
after the Technical Division verifies prices and work performed. In the
past, procurement was restricted to approved suppliers from whom borrowers
could select. Although this system has lapsed, procurement for goods
financed under smaller loans is still limited in practice to a small
number of suppliers and contractors who maintain reasonable competition.
For larger loans, CCI reviews borrowerst procurement plans and adequately
ensures that proper goods are obtained at reasonable prices.
E. Resources. Operations and Portfolio
4.09        CCI's resources at September 30, 1974 were as follows:
CFAF billion
Share capital and reserves                                       2.28
Borrowings:  Long-term (over 7 yrs.)                             6.34
Medium-term (2-7 yrs.)                            11.46
Short-term (up to 2 yrs.)                          0.84
Total                                        20.92
Less:        Fixed assets (net)                                  0.29
Equity investments (net)                           0.02
Outstanding loans (net)                           13.11
Total                                        13.42
Resources available for disbursement                             7.50
J.e'p'ss:     Undisbursed commitments                            1.16
Renources available for commitment                               6.34
TUncommitted approvals                             6.34
Aesources available for approval



- 13 -
The large accumulation of uncommitted approvals is due to:  (a) the normally
long period required to process and commit housing loans; (b) the approval
late in the fiscal year of a large loan to SICOGI (para. 4.11); and
(c) the processing period necessary for large industrial loans. Sources
of borrowed funds include CCCE, CAA, USAID and BCEAO. The loans from
CCCE are long term, each of about CFAF 100 million in the form of "global
advances" for projects for single-family housing. Loans from CAA include
short-, medium- and long-term funds split between global advances for
housing and industry and special advances. The USAID loan is a subloan
from the Entente Fund for Ivorian enterprises. The loans from BCEAO are
medium- and short-term rediscountable funds. All funds (Annex IV, Table 3)
cost between 5.5 and 7% except those from USAID which cost 3.5%. CCI also
manages housing and commercial programs (CFAF 928 million) for the account of
the Government. Although it bears no risk on loans made from these funds,
CCI has short term free use of them.  These operations impose little
administrative burden in CCI and it receives a fee of 2% of amounts
disbursed.
4.10        The following loan approvals summarize CCI's operations for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 1974 (CFAF million):
Short      Medium      Long
term        term       term       Total
Housing                2       2,823        539      3,364
Consumers          1,727         -           -       1,727
Enterprises           54       2,724        238      3,016
1.783      5 547        777       8,107
4.11        Housing loans are divided into two categories.  The first
includes Government guaranteed loans to lower and middle income housing
development corporations - primarily Société Ivoirienne de Construction et
de Gestion Immobilière (SICOGI), a parastatal company - rediscounted at
BCEAO with a spread of 1.5%. The second category includes 600 medium-
and long-term loans to individuals, each ranging from CFAF 2.0 to 3.5
million, secured by mortgages, personal guarantees and-liens on rents as
appropriate. Interest rates range from 6.75 to 11%.
4.12        Consumer loans approved in the fiscal year ending September 30,
1974, included 600 loans averaging CFAF 700,000 for the purchase of private
automobiles and almost 11,500 loans averaging CFAF 100,000 for household
equipment. These loans are granted primarily on the basis of the borrowers's
disposable income.
4.13        About 150 small loans granted to artisans and traders in
fiscal 1974 totaling about CFAF 600 million ranged from artisanal loans
as small as CFAF 300,000, to loans to truckers of CFAF 5 million, to
small-scale industrial loans of about CFAF 10 million. These loans range
from 2 to 7 years and most carry interest rates of 9 to 10%/.



- 14 -
4.14        Until recently, by tacit agreement, CCI left large-scale
industrial lending to BIDI. In its most recent fiscal year, however, CCI
greatly expanded this type of financing. It granted 13 loans totaling
CFAF 2.4 billion (90% at medium term) to the quasi-public electric utility,
Energie Electrique de la Cote d'Ivoire (EECI), to textile companies, and
to processing and manufacturing concerns. Most of these loans were in
consortium with BIDI and the commercial banks.  Terms ranged from 5 to 10
years at interest rates of 7.5 to 11%. In future CCI is expected to con-
tinue to participate in such lending without normally taking a leading
role; hence, BIDI is expected to remain the primary medium- and long-term
financier of medium- and large-scale industry.
4.15        A detailed breakdown of CCI's operations and its borrowing
and lending rates by sector and term are given in Annex IV, Tables 2 and 3.
4.16        At September 30, 1974, outstanding loans in CCI's portfolio
totaled CFAF 13.6 billion (US$60.4 million), broken down as follows
(CFAF million):
Long  Medium  Short  Total                   In
ternm   term   term  "normal"  Doubtful  litigation   Total
Housing       3,405  4,330        1   7,736       344        217       8,297
Enterprises   1,137  1,254       13   2,404        36         29       2,469
Conmmunities   1,049    123       -   1,172         -          -       1,172
Consumers          -      -  1,477   1,477         20         18       1,515
Others            13     23       2      38        75          -         113
Total      5 604  5 730  1,493  12,827        475         264      13 566
In addition, undisbursed loans totaled some CFAF 1,400 million at long term
and CFAF 6,100 million at medium tern.
4.17        Loans with payments of interest and/or principal more than 6
months overdue are classified as "doubtful"; such loans amounted to CFAF
475 millien, 3.5% of the total portfolio, including interest accrued to
the date cf classification as doubtful. As eventual recoveries average
about 50% on doubtful loans, CCI makes provisions of 50% of doubtful loans.
Arrears over 12 months will generally cause legal action to be started to
collect the loan; the loans "in litigation" amounted to CFAF 264 million
or 1.9% of the total portfolio. Although losses average 75% of such
loans, CCI conservatively provides for 85% coverage. A few small loans
are simply written off after arrears are more than 12 months old as legal
costs to realize the securities provided may exceed the loan; such write-
oafs have amounted to CFAF 2 to 3 million annually in recent years. CCI
has , in  dcition, a general reserve fund which amounted to CFAF 464
ri lo       '% of "normal"  oans); allocations to tChis fund serve to reduce
Ma1- aDe   come (para. 4.20).  Moreover, "internal guarantee funds" of CFAF
<- llin represented rebates from suppliers of consumer goods acquired
under C  1oans and contributions from the social security fund.  These
mor  s arr, eamarked for financing, respectively, new consumer loans and



housîng loas ,o .r-vate sect-:r  mpiloyees; they are niot provision- -or
identifiud bac debts but segregated fur.ds for operations considered
unusuaL'ly risky, despite the low rate of write-offs.
4.18        CCI's largest current exposures are loans to SICOGI (fully
Government guaranteed) and to EECI which represent approximately 100% and
30% respectively of CCI's net worth; as the former loan is fully guaranteed
and the latter is to a parastatal utility, they give no cause for concern.
However, to protect CCI's financial independence, a revision of the By-laws
was agreed upon at loan negotiations limiting CCI's normal exposure to any
one client to 25% of its net worth; this would limit exposure to private
sector or nonguaranteed public sector borrowers. Under this formula, CCI's
exposure ceiling is CFAF 635 million (25% of projected net worth of CFAF
2,540 million) in 1975 and will rise to CFAF 800 million in 1979 (when net
worth is projected to be CFAF 3,200 million). CCI will therefore be able
to finance 100% of long-term debt (that is, 40% of project cost) for hotels
up to about 175 rooms (depending on individual subproject cost).
4.19         CCI's equity investments have been limited to a total of CFAF
30 million in 7 companies (Annex IV, Table 4). They include a CFAF 15
million participation in Compagnie Financière de la Côte d'ivoire (COFINCI),
a new bank associated with the Banque Nationale de Paris but not yet in
operation and an investment of CFAF 2 million in SIETHO.
F. Profitability, Financial Condition and Audit
4.20        Like most public sector development banks in French-speaking
Africa, CCI is not profit-oriented and income in excess of a nominal level
is transferred to tax-free general reserve accounts. Such transfers are
limited in any one year to 5% of loans outstanding and cumulatively to 10%
of loans outstanding, but at present reserves are well below these limits.
Including such allocations in net income, CCI's net in its latest fiscal
year was 5.87/ of year-end share capital or 2.6% of average equity including
general reserves. Spreads on various categories of loans range from 1.0%
to over 16%, but CCI's overall margin between its yield on loans and cost
of borrowings has remained between 3.0-3.5%.
4.21        CCI's shareholders have agreed to an increase of subscribed
share capital from CFAF 1 billion to CFAF 1.5 billion; it is expected that
this will be paid in during 1975-76. Although CCI's debt/equity ratio
has been between 4:1 and 5 1 in the recent past, it is expected to reach
between 6:1 and 7:1 by 1977. Given CCI's portfolio of residential and
commercial mortgage loans, agreement was reached during negotiations on a
limit to CCI's term debt/equity ratio of 8.3:1, in line with BCEAO's rules
concerning development banks. It was further agreed, for purposes of this
ratio to include only debts of financial subsidiaries. Balance sheets,
income statements and financial ratios in Annex IV, Tables 5, 6 and 7 detail
CCI's financial condition.
4.22         CCI is not subject to an annual independent audit.  However,
two accounts commissioners, representing the Government and CCCE as the
largest shareholders, annually examine CCI's books to verify the accounts,
certify the regularity of transactions between CCI and its shareholders
or directors, and bring to the sharehoiders' attention any noteworthy



- 16 -
items in the accounts. Although more limited than a full audit, this
supervision is a useful review of CCI's operations and financial condi-
tion, serving to focus the attention of management and the Board on
possible problem areas. Under the project, CCI would engage independent
auditors and be subject to an annual audit. The audit of accounts for
the fiscal year ended September 30, 1974, was substantially completed
prior to Board presentation.
G. Prospects
4.23        Financial projections and the assumptions on which they were
based are given in Annex IV, Tables 8-11 and Exhibit A. These projections
include the proposed hotel credit project and the proposed small-scale
enterprise project presently under consideration. CCI's operations are
expected to grow steadily but moderately, led by housing loans to individuals
and companies.
4.24        CCI is considering the construction of new headquarters adjacent
to its present site to alleviate crowding of its customer facilities and
enable expansion of deposit business. Current proposals for the building
include some 8,000 m2 of rental office space for the growing Abidjan
market. Present estimates indicate a cost of some CFAF 3 billion which
CCI expects to finance 80% from local institutions.  The expanded service
facilities should complement CCI's ongoing operations and anticipated
rental income should offset the cost of ownership. The building is not
expected to impose an untoward financial burden on CCI.
4.25        To finance its operations CCI will require borrowings (net of
repayments) of CFAF 11 billion through its fiscal year ending September 30,
1979. BCEAO will finance about 40%, CAA and the proposed Bank loans about
30% each. Net income is expected to remain adequate, while the debt/equity
ratio, as already noted, is expected to remain below the proposed 8.3:1 limit.
Given the composition of its lending and its competent management, CCI
should remain financially sound while executing the project.
4.26        CCI would set up a Hotel Division in its Operations Department
(Annex IV, Exhibit C) headed by an experienced Ivorian professional.
Arrangements are being made at CCI to send him to a suitable institution,
Crédit Immobilier et H8telier (CIH) in Morocco,for a period of two months
of practical training in hotel credit procedures prior to loan effective-
ness. The technical adviser recruited for the project would work closely
with the hotel division manager and would visit the Bank for two to four
weeks to familiarize himself with Bank procedures. The hotel division
manager or the technical adviser would sit on the interministerial committee
(Conseil Restreint des Investissements Touristiques) which considers all
applications for incentives and would advise on the financial aspects of
uro ects requesting exemptions under the Incentive Code.  Assurances
oer;  reqeived during negotiations that these arrangements would be imple-
m.en t -dc .



- 17 -
5. JUSTIFICATION
A. Market
5.01        There is an urgent need to expand hotel accommodation capacity
in the Ivory Coast. Demand has been strong over the past few years (para.
2.08); average room occupancies are high (75-85%) in Abidjan, and have
not dropped as new hotels appeared. One leading new hotel, for example,
opened its doors recently with an 80% occupancy. There is thus great
pressure on supply and indications of a significant amount of turnaway
demand - i.e., those who are obliged to postpone, shorten or cancel visits
or to accept accommodation in lower category hotels. Most of the demand
is business-oriented (80-85%) and is nonseasonal, thus obviating the
problems associated with alternate periods of high and low occupancies.
5.02        As shown below, prospects for the continued growth of the
travel market are good. International tourist arrivals are projected to
increase as follows (000's):
1973        1976             1980
(Actual)
Visitors
Vacation:
Beach                          6           10               17
Circuit                        5            5                8
Total Vacation          il           15                25
Convention                        -            1                3
Business                         60           87              129
Total Visitors           71         103               157
The main assumption in these projections is that business traffic will con-
tinue to expand as the economy grows and diversifies. The outlook through
1980 is for an overall GDP rate of growth of about 6%, down slightly from
1970-72 levels (para. 2.02). Growth rates for business tourism are pro-
jected to drop slightly from 17% (1970-73), to 13% (1974-76), to 10%
(1977-80). Growth in beach tourism is expected to be modest in absolute
terms; also, only small amounts have been included for convention and
circuit tourism, pending results of the market study proposed under the
project. The development prospects for these markets are limited because
of the Ivory Coast's distance from major generating countries but should be
favorably affected by implementation of the marketing program.
B. Investment Climate and Additional Hotel Requirements
5.03        On the basis of these projections of demand, it is estimated
that by 1980, about 1,000 rooms for business visitors and about 200 for



- 18 -
beach tDurists will be needed (Annex I). This estimate embodies assumptions
as to length of stay and room occupancy which are conservative in comparison
with recent experience in the Ivory Coast. On the assumption of a CFAF 9.0
million (US$40,000) per room cost, a total of CFAF 10,800 million CUS$48
million) would be required by 1980 in the following form:
CFAF              US$
million           million
Equity               4,320              19.2            40
MT debt              2,160               9.6            20
LT debt              4,320              19.2            40
lO,800             48.0           100
5.04        Substantial equity has already been identified for proposed
city hotels (para. 3.05). Several hotel management companies, both
domestic and foreign, are interested in investing in the equity of hotels
they would manage. Finding local investors for beach hotels will be more
difficuLt. It is more likely that a foreign group such as a tour operator
or speci.al interest group will ultimately invest in a vacation village.
Medium-term debt is unlikely to pose a problem since funds are available
through BCEAO's rediscount facility.
5.05        The critical constraint in meeting these objectives is the
availability of long-term finance, particularly since the Government will
no longer undertake hotel investments directly. BIDI is the only Ivorian
financial institution that has been making long-term loans of ten years or
more in the hotel sector, and due to what it considers overexposure there,
it is restricting further hotel Loans. It is difficult to find long-term
debt capital in today's international market, and in any case the hotel
sector in the Ivory Coast has not established a reputation which might
attract such foreign participation. When available, foreign participation
is likely to be medium term (7-10 years) at high interest rates and
unsuitaLle as the principal debt instrument for hotel credit. Thus despite
the needt to increase the country's hotel facilities there is no assured
source of long-term credit to enable the sector to expand. The proposed
Bank loan would substantially remove this obstacle by providing about 50%
of the long-term debt requirement. In addition to helping finance new
hotels, the Bank loan would stimulate participation of other lenders in
the field.
C. Economic Aspects
5.06        Since the project consists substantially of a line of credit,
the number, classification and timing of subprojects is not known in advance.
Consequently, it is impossible to calculate an economic rate of return
for the project.



- 19 -
5.07        Gross foreign exchange earnings from tourism are estimated to
reach a level of US$36 million equivalent by 1983, compared to a total
of US$14 million in 1973. Foreign visitors to the hotels under the project
would generate an estimated US$10 million in 1980 when two-thirds of the
hotels will be open and US$15 million in 1983 when all the hotels will be
fully operational. Over 805% of the visitor expenditures in these hotels
would represent foreign exchange revenues.
5.08        Rotels in the Ivory Coast average 1.2 employees per room
according to recent studies. On this basis, it is estimated that hotels
financed under the project would create approximately 1,400 new jobs in
the hotels (excluding jobs in the construction industry over the 3-5
year disbursement period). Indirect employment would likely account for
an additional 1,400 jobs, giving a total of 2,800 jobs created under the
project.
5.09        It should be emphasized that not all the foreign exchange
revenue and employment from the project is incremental, since some of
the business visitors would come anyway and would stay in older and lower-
category hotels or private homes, if necessary. For business visitors
the additional hotel space will have a pronounced effect especially in
terms of expenditures, reflecting the fact that they will stay in newer
and more expensive accommodation, and will plan longer visits when the
supply constraint is removed. The addition of new facilities will sti-
mulate vacation travel, since it will enable tour operators and travel
agents to include the country in their itineraries and programs to an
increasing extent.
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01        During negotiations agreement was reached and assurances
obtained with respect to the following principal points:
(a) use of proceeds of the Bank loan for
construction of new hotels in priority
areas with building regulations accept-
able to the Bank (para. 3.03);
(b) subprojects would be sponsored by
predominantly private promoters, without
excluding participation by the public
sector, with hotel management and
financing plans acceptable to the
Bank (para. 3.06);
(c) onlending of proceeds of the Bank
loan for a maximum of 20 years
including a grace period of 3-5 years
at an interest rate of 10.5% plus a £%
fee to cover the foreign exchange
risk (para. 3.07);



- 20 -
(d) the methodology for appraisal and follow-up
of hotel subprojects (paras. 3.08 and 3.09);
(e) procedures for regular reports as well as
those on the status of subprojects from
their identification through implementation
(para. 3.08),
(f) arrangements for adviser to CCI to assist
the Ministry of Tourism in financial aspects
of hotel projects (para. 3.10);
(g) arrangements for two consultants at the
Ministry of Tourism to assist CCI in appraisal
of hotel projects (para. 3.11);
(h) the marketing study would be carried out
on terms and conditions by consultants all
acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.13); and
(i) arrangements for a representative of CCI to
sit on Conseil Restreint des Investissements
Touristiques (para. 4.26).
6.02         Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a)  employment of an adviser acceptable to the
Bank for CCI (para. 3.10), and
(b) employment of two consultants acceptable
to the Bank for the Ministry of Tourism
(para. 3.11).
6.03          The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$9.7 million
equivalent with a flexibTe amortization -schedule conforming substantially
to the aggregate amortization schedules of the subprojects none of which
should in principle exceed 20 years. The technical assistance and
marketing study would be amortized over the first five years of repayment.



ANNEX I
Page 1
IVORY COAST
APPRAISAL OF A TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARKET DEMAND AND HOTEL DEVELOPMENT
A. Market Demand
Market Characteristics
1.          According to the official statistics collected by the
Ministry of Tourism (Tables 1 and 2), 71,000 foreign visitors arrived
in the Ivory Coast in 1973. This number includes only those who regis-
tered in 13 hotels which represent 80% of total hotel capacity in the
country and excludes visitors who stayed with friends and relatives.
Adjustments have been made to avoid double counting.  Expatriate staff
residing temporarily in hotels are also excluded from this total; these
numbered 27,128 in 1973 and accounted for over 100,000 bednights.
According to these official statistics foreign arrivals have increased
by 17% per annum since 1970.  The total number of bednights has increased
by 24%, reaching 374,500 in 1973 from 197,000 in 1970. There is little
seasonal variation in tourist traffic to the Ivory Coast except for
declines in May, June and August (Table 3 and 4).
2.          Four distinct categories of tourists are attracted to the
Ivory Coast: (a) businessmen to Abidjan; (b) vacation tourists to the
beach resort areas of Assinie; (c) vacation tourists to Abidjan and the
interior on multiple-stop tours covering a West African regional circuit;
and (d) convention visitors primarily to Abidjan.
(a) Business tourism
Business visitors dominate the tourism market in the
Ivory Coast, accounting for 85% of total international
visitor traffic. In recent years, business travel to the
Ivory Coast has grown rapidly, largely because of the
growth and increasing diversification of the countryTs
economy. The expansion of hotel accommodation in Abidjan
has not kept pace with business demand, and room occupancy
levels are high, averaging 80%. The length of stay has
also risen in recent years from 4.3 days in 1970 to over 5
in 1973.
French business visitors account for more than 40% of
this market and U.S. visitors 15%. The daily expenditure
of business visitors on hotel accommodations, food,



ANNEX I
Page 2
transportation and miscellaneous items is estimated to range
between US$45 and US$66 and average US$51.
(b)  Beach tourism
Beach tourism is confined to the Club Mediterranee and
the Hôtel les Palutuviers, both in the làgoon area of Assinie.
They are open for an eight-month period each year, with
January to April the peak season. In 1973, 6,000 tourists,
mostly from France on package tours, visited Assinie staying
on average 7 days. Occupancy of the two villages was 57%
during the season from September 1972 to April 1973 and is
expected to improve particularly as Hotel les Palutuviers
(opened in 1972) becomes better known. Expenditure of guests
here ranges between US$35 and US$43 daily.
(c) Circuit tourism
Vacation tourists from Europe on circuit tours of West
African states accou-nt for 7% (5,000 arrivals in 1973) of
the total international visitor traffic. Such visitors
normally have high incomes since circuit tours are of neces-
sity expensive and this segment of the market has held up
better than others in the last 18 months as prices have
increased sharply. These exclusive tours are paid for prior
to departure, and land costs typically include hotel accom-
modation, meals, transfers and excursions. The daily
expenditure of circuit tourists in the Ivory Coast ranges
between US$30 and IJS$35 and the average length of stay is
2 to 3 nights.
(d) Convention market
There is good potential for development of convention
business in the Ivory Coast. Abidjan has extensive, modern
facilities for groups up to 4,000 and is well located to
become an important meeting place for both African and world
conventions.
B. Future Foreign Visitor Traffic to the Ivory Coast
Constraints
3.          Pleasure tourism in the Ivory Coast is still limited and the
short-term prospects for its expansion remain moderate, primarily because
of the high cost of transportation from the relatively distant tourism-
generating countries. A direct parallel cannot be drawn with many desti-
nations (e.g., Mediterranean) comnpeting for the European market because
of the Ivory Coast's different seasonal appeal and characteristics.
When the Ivory Coast is compared to other West African countries (e.g.,
Senegal`) with similar seasonal appeal but greater proximity to generating
markets. however, the high cost of transportation is a distinct dis-
advantage. This constraint along with the high cost of ground services,



ANNEX I
Page 3
is an important consideration in view of the general slowdown in tourism
elsewhere in the world. The development of circuit tourism is hindered
by the absence of a cohesive organizational structure at national and
regional levels to promote the assets of each country on a planned and
integrated basis. With continuing unilateral marketing efforts on the
part of the Ivory Coast, however, circuit tourism will continue to
supplement the business market. It will also be a high income market
with a good potential for high profit margins. The season for circuit
tours peaks between June and August when business tourism is slowest, and
thus helps hotels maintain high occupancy levels year round.
4.          Convention business depends largely on the geographical con-
venience of a locality and/or its political importance. The city of
Abidjan has had extensive modern convention facilities since 1972, but
there has been no promotional activity despite the fact that the highly
competitive nature of the conference business makes marketing a prere-
quisite for success.
Prospects
5.          Before assessing the flow of tourists to the Ivory Coast
over the next few years it is important to examine the factors under-
lying the recent rapid growth of business tourism.
6.          Though the Ivory Coast's economic performance has been
impressive since the early sixties, the take-off year for business
tourism was 1970, coinciding with the start of the economic diversifi-
cation policy. Agricultural diversification includes the successful
promotion of several new crops (palm oil, rubber, cotton, copra, sugar,
bananas, etc.) in addition to the three traditional exports (coffee,
cocoa and timber). In industry small enterprises enjoyed similar growth
mainly in import substitution and the processing of agricultural and
forestry products.
7.          With the outlook through 1975 for an overall GDP growth
rate of 6.3% in constant prices and 6% for the rest of the decade, the
prospects for continued growth of business-motivated tourism remain
favorable. If as expected, the Government continues to diversify the
economy, a favorable growth rate may in the longer run bring even greater
expansion of business tourism. Export-oriented diversification includes
several projects in an advanced stage of preparation: a chocolate
factory, a cocoa-butter plant and two vegetable-oil mills. The establish-
ment of a synthetic fiber plant and a major textile plant is under
consideration as well as the expansion of an important textile factory.
Other projects contemplated include a pulp and paper plant, a tire
factory and an iron ore project.
8.          While tourism in general is a recent phenomenon in the
Ivory Coast, pleasure-motivated tourism is even more recent. There
were 6,000 arrivals in the seaside resorts of Assinie during 1972, the
first year facilities were in operation. So far the Ivory Coast has
drawn group visitors from only a single source, France, and the absence
of a wider geographical marketing strategy has resulted in a loss of
potential income from other major tourist generators. The high price



ANNEX I
Page 4
of the Ivorian tourism product will continue to hamper growth of pleasure
tourisrn in the short term. In the long run, however, with a more diver-
sified marketing base, the country is expected to attract a greater
share cf the winter vacation traffic.
Market Projections
9.          Improved marketing techniques may encourage vacation tourism
to the Ivory Coast, though the effects will be limited by high trans-
portation costs. Circuit tourism is expected to stagnate at present
levels unless neighboring countries exhibit greater interest in promoting
it. Because of the highly competitive nature of convention tourism, it
is assumed the Ivory Coast will not significantly tap this market until
the latter part of this decade.
10.         The mission estimates that the Ivory Coast will receive
about 129,000 business visitors by 1980 -- an average annual growth rate
of 11% over the rest of this decade compared with an observed growth
rate of 17% since 1970. This projected increase in business visitor
traffic assumes a growth rate of 137e between 1973 and 1976 and a reduced
growth rate of 10% thereafter until 1980. The implications of these
growth rates, along with projections of rates of growth of the other
market segments under varying assumptions, are detailed below:
Projected Number of Foreign Arrivals at Hotels
in the Ivory Coast
Estimated  a/  AveLage Annual
1973  1976    1980    Average 1980   Growth Rate %  a/
Low-High
Vacation visitors
Beach                 6    10       17           17             16
Circuit               5      5      5-12          8              8
Total vacation    il    15       22-99         25             13
Convention visitors    -       1      2-4           3               -
Business visitors      60    87    119-138        129              il
Total visitors         71   103    143-172        157             11.5
a/ Using mid range of projected figures.
11.         These projections are considered reasonable in the light of
three considerations:
(a) Constrained demand
The rapid growth in the number of business
visitors to the Ivory Coast in recent years has



ANNEX I
Page 5
been accompanied by a similar expansion of hotel
accommodation suitable for international visitors.
Although hotel capacity in Abidjan increased
rapidly since 1970, it was insufficient to sustain
a growth rate in demand higher than the 17%
observed between 1970 and 1973; occupancy levels
have been averaging 80% during the past three years. 1/
This shortage of hotel space has resulted in a
frustration of demand. 2/
(b)  Trends of business-motivated tourism to the Ivory Coast
There are several indications that in the Ivory Coast
business tourism will continue to grow until 1980.
(i) Business tourism in the Ivory Coast is
recent and its growth has been dynamie. 3/
(ii)  The diversification program of the economy
is in its initial phase.
(iii)  The potential for diversification particularly
in export-oriented industrialization is
excellent and the economic outlook for the
Ivory Coast remains favorable.
(c) Exogenous factors
Although, economic difficulties in Europe will affect
the growth of tourism in general, the business-oriented
market for the Ivory Coast is less volatile in the face of
changing economic conditions than vacation-oriented markets.
Hotel Development
12.         The additional hotel capacity required by 1980 was determined
on the basis of the demand projections under the following assumptions:
(a) Present hotel capacity in the interior of
the country is adequate for both present
demand and any increases in the foreseeable
future.
1/  Indicative of this inadequacy, the Hotel Tiama in Abidjan which
began full operation in 1973 averaged about 90% occupancy.
2/ It should also be noted that the high occupancy levels remove the
need for hoteliers to market and promote their establishments.
3/  The increase in the number of room nights each year in both absolute
and percentage terms has been consistently greater than the preceding
year.



ANNEX I
Page 6
(b) The number of "lodger" 1/ nights will at most
remain at existing levels (100,000 bednights
in 1973) because more housing will be available
especially when the first phase of the African
Riviera project in Abidjan is completed.
(c) Domestie room nights will increase at the rate
indicated in the Plan (7%).
(d) Average length of stay will remain unchanged;
five days for business visitors to Abidjan,
seven days for seaside tourists in the coastal
areas and two days in Abidjan for circuit tourists.
The average length of stay of convention visitors
to Abidjan is assumed to be three days.
(e) The expected number of suitable international-
class hotel rooms available in 1980 is assumed
to be 1,400, compared to 1,200 in 1973. This
includes 2 hotels (434 rooms) to be financed
outside the proposed project and allows for
the obsolescence of 3 hotels comprising
230 rooms.
(f) Double occupancy factors are assumed to be 20%
for business visitors, 80% for seaside visitors,
60% for circuit visitors and 10% for convention
visitors. 2/
13.         Tests to determine the need for additional capacity were
carried out for three acceptable occupancy levels (65%, 70% and 75%)
of total available supply, including hotels expected to be built by
1980. The following table surmarizes the results:
1/  Resident expatriate staff from France on fixed appointments lodge
in hotels either on a permanent basis or for a short period prior
to finding suitable accommodation.
2/  It should be noted that the double occupancy factor assumed for
business visitors represents that observed presently in the Ivory
Coast. This will likely increase, along with the average length of
stay, as more accommodation space become available and as the appeal
of the country becomes more vacation-oriented.



ANNEX I
Page 7
Total Number of Rooms Required
Estimated
1976     1980       Average 1980
Assinie
75% occupancy (8-month season)        -        214             200
80% occupancy (8-month season)         -       170
Abidjan
65% occupancy                         790  1,150-1,440       1,000
70% occupancy                        650    970-1,335
75% occupancy                        530    810-1,150
Total                                  530-790    980-1,654       1,200



ANNEX I
Table 1
IVORY COAST
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tourism Growth Rates for Abidjan and Assinie
International Tourists
Average Annual
1970     1971     1972      1973    Growth Rate
Arrivals
Number              44,826   48,722   52,503   70,935
Growth Rate (%)         -      8.9      7.8      35.1         16.5
Room Nights
Number             197,194  209,344  265,464  374,471
Growth Rate (%)         -      6.2     26.8      41.1         24.0
Average Length of Stay
Number (nights)     4.3       4.3      5.2       5.3
Growth Rate (%)       -         °     18.6       3.9          7.0
Sources: Ministry of Tourism
Mission Estimates
NOVEIBER :L974



ANNEX I
Table 2
IVORY COAST
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Arrivals and Room Nights at Hotels
Abidjan and Assinie
(1973)
Arrivals                 Room Nights
No.                       No.       %
International Tourism
Business               60,935    85    59        314,471    84    64
Pleasure               101000    15    10         60,000    16    12
Total International       70,935   100    69        374,>471   100    76
Domestic Tourism
Ivorian                 5,742    17     5         11,502    10      2
Foreign Resident       27,128    83    26        101,840    90    22
Total Domestic            32,870   100    31        113,342   100    24
TOTAL TOURISM               103 ,805         100        487,813         100
Source: Ministry of Tourism
NOVEMEER 1974



ANNEX I
Table 3
IVORY COAST
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seasonal Distribution of International Tourist Business
at Hotels in Abidian and Assinie
A.  Arrivals (%)            1970         1971        1972        1973
January                  8.7         7.9          9.8         9.4
February                 7.8         8.3          9.1         9.3
March                    8.5         8.1          9.6         9.0
April                    7.3         8.5          7.0         8.7
May                      7.4          9.1         7.2         6.9
June                     8.2         8.5          7.7         7.4
July                    10.1         8.3          7.2         6.6
August                   7.9          6.9         6.4         6.9
September                8.1         9.0          7.5         7.3
October                  7.7          7.4         8.1         7.7
November                 9.1         8.0          9.0         9.0
December                 9.2        10.0         11.3        11.8
Total Arrivals      100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0
B. Room Nights (%)
January                  8.1         9.6         10.8        11.1
February                 8.5         8.7         10.5        10.6
March                    8.9         7.5         10.4        10.3
April                    7.8         8.1          8.2         9.6
May                      6.9         8.2          6.9         6.8
June                     6.7         6.9          5.8         5.8
July                     7.8         6.9          5.6         5.1
August                   6.6          6.4         4.8         6.2
September                9.7         7.1          5.8         5.2
October                  8.8          8.3         7.8         8.4
November                10.2         10.0        12.2         9.2
December                10.0        12.3         11.2        11.7
Total Room Nights   100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0
C. Average Length of
Stay (Nights)
January                  4.1         5.0          5.6         5.9
February                 4.8         4.5          5.8         6.1
March                    4.6         4.0          5.5         6.0
April                    4.7         4.1          5.9         5.8
May                      4.1         3.9          4.9         5.2
June                     3.6         3.5          3.8         4.1
July                     3.4         3.6          3.9         4.1
August                   3.7         4.0          3.7         5.0
September                5.3         3.4          J.9         3.7
October                  5.0         4.8          4.9         5.9
November                 5.0         5.3          6.8         5.4
December                 4.8         5.4          5.0         5.2
Annual Average
Length of Stay           4i.3        4.3          5.1         5.3
Source:  Ministry of Tourism
NOVEMBER 1974



ANNEX I
Table 4
IVORY COAST TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monthly Distribution of International Tourist
Arrivals and Room Nights at Hotels in Abidjan and Assinie
ARRIVALS                                                              ROOM NIGHTS
8,750 -                                                                        47,250
7,500 -                                                                        40,500
6,250                                                                          33,750
5,000 -  CD                                                                    27,0
3,750 -                                                                     - 20,250
2,500 -                                                                     - 13,500
1,250 -                                                                     - 6,750
J     F    M     A    M    J    J    A         S    O    N       D
MONTHS
Arrivals
Room nights
Worid Bank-9620
November 1974



ANNEX I
Table 5
IVORY COAST
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Comparison of Arrivals, Room Nights, and Average Length
of Stay of Tourists by Nationality
Nationality            Arrivals                     Room Nights
French        47.3     46.5      - 0.8       48.8     47.3      - 1.5
African       11.6      11.5     - 01        8.7       8.8     + 0.1
U.S.A.        10.1       8.7     - 1.4        6.7       8.6     + 1.9
German         4.9       7.0     f 2.1        5.2       7.5     + 2.3
Italian        4.9      4.3      - 0.6        6.0       4.9     - 1.1
Other         21.2     22.0      + 0.8       24.6      22.9     - 1.7
Total     100.0    100.0        -        100.0    100.0         -
Arrivals                       Room Nights          Average Length of Stay
1972     1973     Ch           1972     1973     Chane       1972     Un      ChanRe
(absolute number)              ( %absolute number)    %                              I
French      24h866    32q961    + 32.6    129,798   177J162  + 36.5        5.22    5.37    + 0.15
African      6,071      8,179    + 34.7     23,072    33,064  + 43.3       3.80    4.04    + 0.24
U.S,A.       5,319     6,196    + 16.5      17,954    32,146  + 79.0       3.38    5.19    + 1.81
German       2,574     4,977    + 93.4      14,008    28,246  +101.6       5.44    5.68    + 0.24
Itallan      2,577     3,037    + 17.9      15,876    18,191  + 14.6       6.16    6.oo 0     0.16
Other       11,096    15.585    + 40.5      64,756    85.662  + 32.3       5.84   _5o    - o.
Total    52,503    70-9M      + 35.10   265.464   374.471  + 41.1       5.06    5        + 0.22
Source: Ministry of Tourism
NOVEMBER 1974



IVORY COAST
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Demand for Accommodation in Abidian
Assumption I - 75% Occupancv             Assumption Il - 70% Occupancy              Assumption III - 65% Occupancy
1 9 7 6               1 9 8 0             1 9 7 6                1 9 8 0            1 9 7 6                  1 9 8 0
Projected foreign visitor room nights
1.   Business                                                 366,700           495,800-577,100         366,700            495,800-577,100        366,700             495,800-577,100
2.   Convention                                                  -                5,500- 10,900            -                 5,500- 10,900           -                   5,500- 10,900
3.   Circuit                                                    6,300             5,000- 12,000           6,300              5,000- 12,000          6,300                5,000- 12,000
4.   Total                                                    373,000           506,300-600,000         373,000            506,300-600,000        373,000             506,300-600,000
Projected domestie visitor room nights
5.   Foreign residents                                        100,000                    100,000        LOO,OOO                     100,000       100,000                      100,000
6.   Projected total nuaber of room nights (4+5)              473,000           606,300-700,000        473,000             606,300-700,000        473,000             606,300-700,000
7.   Room nights available at 75% occupancy _!                328,500                    384,345        306,600                     358,700       284,700                      333,100
8.   Room nights required (6-7)                               144,500           221,955-315,655         166,400            247,600-341,300        188,300             273,200-366,900
9.   Room nights required at 75% occupancy                    192,700           295,940-420,470         237,700            353,700-487,600        289,700             420,300-564,500
10.  Number of rooms required                                     530               810-  1,150             650                970-  1,335            790                1,150-  1,440
a/   Projected foreign visitor room nights- projected number of visitors x length of stay
double occupancy factor
b!   Room nights available - number of rooms available x number of days x occupancy level
Source: UBRD Estimates



ANNEX I
Table 7
I.VORY COAST
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I.  PROJECTEI DEMAND FOR ACCOMMODATION                               1 9 7 6          1 9 8 0
In Assinie
1.  Projec:ted foreign-visitor room nights                        38,900           66,100
2.  Room nights available at 75% occupancy                        46,800           46,800
3.  Room rLights available at 80% occupancy(4-month  season)   49,920              49,920
4. Room rights required (1-2)                                       -              19,300
5.  Room nights required (1-3)  (4-month  season)                   -              16,180
6.  Room nights required at 75% occupancy                           -              25,700
7.  Room nights required at 80% occupancy                           -              20,225
8.  Number of rooms required (75% occupancy)                        -                 214
9.  Number of rooms required (80% occupancy)                        -                 170
II. RECAPITULATION OF PROJECTED DEMAND FOR ACCOMMODATION
1.  In Assinie
75% occupancy  (8-month season)                                 -                 214
805/ occupancy  (8-month season)                                -                 170
2.  In Abijian
65% occupancy                                                    790         1,150-1,4-40
70% occupancy                                                    650           970-1,_35
75% occupancy                                                    530           810-1,150
3.  Total
Assinie                                                         -                 -
Abidjan                                                      530-790           980-1,654



ANNEX II
Page 1
IVORY COAST
APPRAISAL OF A TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE TOURISM SECTOR
A. The Ministry of Tourism
1.          As successor to several less important agencies, the Minis-
tere d'Etat Charge' du Tourisme (Ministry of Tourism) was created under
Decree No. 71-675 of December 12, 1971. Its major functions are:
(a) identification of zones for tourism development
and planning proposals for their implementation;
(b) marketing and promotion of the Ivory Coast;
(c) regulation and control of the tourism sector
in general and the hotel industry in
particular; and
(d) coordination of public and private activities
in tourism.
Organization and Staffing
2.          The Ministry is divided into four departments (see Organization
Chart), regional offices in Man and Korhogo and an office in Paris. The
four departments are the Regulations Department which covers classifi-
cation and inspection of hotels and establishes standards; the Projects
Department which is responsible for tourism studies, development pro-
jects, and infrastructure and administers the agre'ment professionnel;
the Promotion Department responsible for promotion, statistics and
training; and the Administration and Finance Department. In addition,
the Ministry supervises the Societé Ivoirienne d'Expansion Touristique
et Heteliére (SIETHO), the Ivory Coast Travel Agency (ICTA) and the
Office National d'Artisanat et d'Art (ONAA). A new department (Marketing
and Project Review) would be created for the two experts and the
marketing study proposed under the project.
Policies and Practice
3.          In general the Ministry's development has been handicapped
by the smallness of its budget and, although department heads are
competent, by its lack of support personnel with the required profes-
sional ability. If tourism is to be further developed to any extent,



ANNEX II
Page 2
it will be necessary to strengthen the Ministry particularly in the areas
of marketing and technical planning.
4.          A major task of the Projects Department has been to identify
priority tourism development areas. At the request of the Ministry, the
Bureau National d'Etudes Techniques (in the Ministry 'of Public Works) has
carried out a number of regional studies ("schémas directeurs") to provide
a basis for the physical planning of tourism infrastructure and super-
structure. Studies have already been done for Assinie, Grand Bassam, the
San Pedro area and the Grand Lahou lagoon region near Abidjan. They have
no legal status but indicate land use and road infrastructure in broad
terms.
5.          The Projects Department also reviews hotel projects submitted
for technical approval (agrement professionnel); currently over 40 requests
are on file. The Bank missions found that approval is granted after a
somewhat cursory review, due in part to a shortage of personnel and in
part to unsuitable procedures. One of the consultants proposed under the
Bank project would have the task of raising the standards of the review
procedure.
6.          At present, marketing activities are restricted,by the
Promotion Department's small budget (US$36,000 equivalent in 1974) and
limited staff. If the Ivory Coast is to develop tourism the Promotion
Department must be strengthened by additional funds and a stronger
marketing policy. The consultants and study to be financed by the Bank
under the project would provide the basis for more effective promotion.
7.          The Regulations Department has a fairly effective tool in
the decree classifying hotels (No. 72-488, By-law 81), but it appears
that the decree is applied somewhat haphazardly, with anomalous results.
Several hotels, for example, have received very high ratings when in
fact their size, services and staffing do not mernt it. The Ivorian
authorities must recognize that for visitors the classification system is
the only guide to hotel standards in the Ivory Coast and it must be applied
rigidly and equitably. In addition, it must be recognized that inspection
and control of hotel standards is an ongoing process, with hotels reviewed
regularly and their status revised, if necessary, either upward or down-
ward according to an objective evaluation. In terms of the physical
standards for hotels the classification system is quite complete; its
staffing requirements are weak, however, in part because an effective
hotel training scheme has not yet been implemented.
Operating and Capital Budgets
8.          The Ministry operates on a limited budget, reflecting its
youth and small size. The operating budget (Table 1), including expenses
for the 3 supervised agencies has risen from CFAF 227 million (US$1 million)
in 1970 to an estimated CFAF 422 million (US$1.9 million) in 1974. Capital
expense over the same period decreased annually from a total of CFAF 1,357
million (US$6 million) to CFAF 697 million (US$3.1 million), reflecting
the Government's policy of reduced participation of the public sector in
tourism superstructure.



ANNEX II
Page 3
iotel Training
9.          At present, the Promotion Department of the Ministry is res-
ponsible for hotel training but vocational education and management training
for hotel staff are in fact carried out on the job or in institutions
abroad.  The Governnent (Ministries of Technical Education and Tourism)
is preparing a hotel training project with Canadian technical assistance
consisting of a 120-place school and practice hotel.
B. Additional Sectoral Data
Air Access
10.         The major routes to the Ivory Coast are by air from Europe
and other African countries. Air Afrique, the multinational West African
States' airline headquartered in Abidjan, serves the country along with
15 other international airlines. From Abidjan there are domestic flights
by Air Ivoire to other regions of the country. The main international
airport (Port Bouet) in Abidjan is well equipped to handle all modern
commercial aircraft. In addition, a large new airport at Yamoussoukro is
capable of handling international flights and there is a network of 26
other regional airports.
Incentives
11.         To encourage private investment, a Tourism Incentive Code was
promulgated in 1973 (Law No. 73-368) which gives exemptions from value
added tax and duties on imported materials and equipment used for
construction. Depending on the nature and importance of the investment,
an investor may benefit from a priority status which entitles him to the
following exemptions for a period up to seven years from the first year
of operation:
(a)  Government (excluding local) real estate taxes;
(b) local taxes;
(c) license fees and related expenses;
(d) tax on rental space;
(e) income tax;
(f)  employer's contribution for benefits based
on employees' salaries;
(g) sales tax; and
(h) certain other minor taxes.
Alternatively, if an enterprise is big enough or considered of national
importance, the Governmnent may negotiate a special agreement granting
incentives for up to 25 years. The incentives are awarded on an individual
basis, depending on a project's relative merit.



ANNEX Il
Page 4
12.         The granting of incentives goes through different stages
following procedures defined in Decrees No. 72-488 (By-law 8/MET/DR) and
No. 73-401. Investors first submit applications for approval (agré'ment
professionnel) to the Ministry of Tourism, which analyzes and approves
the site as well as architectural and other technical aspects and ensures
that all licenses and permits are in order.
13.         After approval by the Ministry of Tourism, investors' appli-
cations are submitted to the Ministry of the Plan (agrement prioritaire),
which is subject to the recommendations of a special committee representing
the Ministries of Tourism and Finance as well as the Plan. The committee
makes an evaluation of the investors, the proposed management and staffing,
the marketing strategy and the financial and economic aspects of the project.
14.         The Governnent will also connect individual hotel sites with
primary infrastructure lines via "branchements" (e.g., access roads,
electricity, water, teleconnunications, sewerage). Such connecting infra-
structure will be financed out of the Ministry of Financets Special Budget
for Investment and Equipment (BSIE) once the applicant's project has
received final approval. All requests for infrastructure are reviewed
during the month of November and approved the following January, following
normal budgetary procedures.
15.         As part of its program to stimulate the interest of private
investors, the Government has launched an investment promotion campaign
in major European capital markets and has retained the Banque de Paris et
des Pays Bas to assist in this endeavor.
Land Policy
16.         Land acquisition can be a complicating factor because there
are three categories of ownership which fall under different Government
land policies:
(a)  public domain of the State for land within 100
meters of the sea or the lagoon and 25 meters
of a river;
(b) private domain of the State for land (such as
forest, savannah, etc.) which is not exploited;
and
(c) land with real estate title (titre foncier)
usually private property.
Land in the public domain of the State to be used for construction is
rented for a period of 30 years, renewable for periods of 10 years. For
tourism projects the rent is on a per bed per year basis as follows:



ANNEX II
Page 5
CFAF per bed/per year
First seven            Eighth and
years            subsequent years
Urban area               2,500                 5,000
Rural area               1,000                 2,000
Land in the public domain of the State on the seacost and between the
ocean and the lagoon is nontransferable.  Land, either agricultural
(cultivated) or urban, with real estate title can be bought and sold by
normal real estate transactions. In exceptional cases urban land under
the private domain of the State can be bought.
17.         In the cities, where land is usually privately owned, a quick
decision is possible since title to the land is not complicated and
building sites can be approved by the Ministry of Finance. In country
and beach locations where land belongs to the State, building sites may
te approved only in priority zones established by the Ministry of Tourism.
The land question in this case is considerably more complex and may require
a longer period of time for approval to be granted.  Although the system
of ground rents does avoid land speculation, the present rates for beach
sites (ostensibly calculated at 105/ of market value) are quite low for
hotel use.



ANNEX II
Table 1
IVORY COAST
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ministry of Tourism
Operating and Capital Budget
(CFAF million)
Operating Budget
a/
1970      1971       1972       1973     1974
Central Administration            72        74         34         85       87
4 Departments                     33        12         75         36       45
3 Supervised Companies          122        243        217        219      390
Total                      227        329        326       340       422
Capital Budget
Vacation Villages                140       964        700        360       -
Motels                         1,198     1,109      1,388        562      514
Infrastructure                              -          19         19      200
Studies                           19        -           6          -        8
Total                    1,357      2,073      2,113       941       722
a/ Estimated
Source: Ministry of Tourism



ANNEX Il
Table 2
IVORY COAST
TOURISM DEVELOPMINT PROJECT
Hotels în Abid Ian
Government Classified Hotels by Category
(April 1974)                   Room Rate JUS$)
CateRzory                    Hotel                      No. Rooms         Single           Double
sStars                      Ivoire  a/                     680-            25               35
4 Stars                      Palm Beach a/                   60             14               16
Tiama a!                       145            21                25
885
3 Stars                      Relais Aériens a!               82             15               17
Liberte                         57             10               14
Du Parc a/                     86              17               22
De France                      48              13               17
International                  47             13                17
Grand Hotel a!                100              10               14
Hibiscus                        25             13               17
445
2 Stars                      Mediterranée                    17              8               13
SUBTOTAL                            10                    1,347
Unclassified Hotels of 10 + Rooms
Terminus                        27
Piscine des Tourelles           12
Pergola                         19
Palmyre                        69
Humante                         10
Beau Séjour                     27
Desert                          30
Batafoc                         17
Phoenicia                       17
Atlanta                         24
SUBTOTAL                          il                       252
GRAND TOTAL                       21                     19
Total Hotels of international
Standing in Abidjan            6                     1,153
a/ Hotels of international standi-ig.
b! Hotels received Gover-ment approval ta raise their room rates by 20'/ in May 1974.
c/ There are 711 at the Hotel Ivoire but only 680 are available for rent.
Sources: IBRD, Ministry of Tourism
NOVEMBER 1974



ANNEX Il
Table 3
IVORY COAST
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Hotel Management and Ownership Patterns
for Hotels Operating during 1974
Number of      Number of
Management                                                                   Hotels         Rooms        % of Rooms
A.  InternatiQnal Management Companies
Intercontinental Hotels Corporation (PanAm)                         1             680              24
U. T. H.                              (UTA)                         3             361              13
Me'ridien                              (Air France)                 1              82               2
Club Mediterranee                     (Vacation Village Chain)    2               500              18
Total International Management Companies                       7          1,623               57
B. Local Management Companies
SIETHO                                (a parastatal agency)         8             243               9
Total Management Companies                                                    15          1,866               66
Non-affiliated Management                                                     46             978              34
Total Hotels                                                                  54          2,844              100
Ownership
A. Public Ownership
Number of
Location                         Hotel                                Rooms         % of Rooms
Abidjan                          Ivoire                                680              24
Assinie                          Club Mediterranee                     200               8
Assinie                          Assouindé                             300              10
Interior                         8 SIETHO Hotels                       243               9
Yamoussoukro                     Président                             130               4
San Pedro                        ARSO                                   57               2
Total Public Ownership                                            1,610              57
B. Private Ownership
1.  International                          Rooms
AGIP                               21
Mobil                              12
ESSO                               12
Shell                              12
Total International           57                                    57               2
Ownership
2.  Local Entrepreneurs                                                         1,177              41
TOTAL HOTEL ROOMS                                                                         2,844             100
Source: IBRD Mission
NOVEMBER 1974



ANNEX II
Table 4
IVORY COAST
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Principal Hotels Constructed 1970-73
Number of
Hotel                  Location       Rooms      Date          Investment    Investment/Room
(million CFAF)   (million CFAF)
Ivoire (3rd addition) Abidjan           250     1971/72            1873            7.5
Tiama                  Abidjan          145     1971/72             607            4.2
Hibiscus               Abidjan           25     1973                 40             1.6
Le Fromager            Gagnoa            40     1970                160            4.0
Le Mont Zanzan         Bondoukou         30     1971                202            6.7
Les Frontières         Odienné           30     1972                195            6.5
Ile Bambou             Aboisso           20     1972                110            5.5
Arso                    San Pedro        57     1972                 91             1.6
L'Eléphant             Bouaké            27     1972                 43             1.6
Président              Yamoussoukro   150       1973               1500           10.0
Le Dala                Boundiali         25     1973                 88             3.5
Caristofanis           San Pedro         12     1973                 28             2.3
Nango                  Agninilekro       20     1973                 25             1.2
Nikoa                  Jacqueville       22     1973                180             8.2
Les Cascades           Man              48      1969/70             220            4.6
Sitour                 Assinie          64      1970/71             64             1.3
Club Mediterranee      Assinie          209     1970/71            1683             8.0
Assouindeé             Assinie          300     1971/72            1030             3.4
NOTE:  Investment figures are actual cost at time of investnent.
Source: Ministry of Tourism.
NOVEMBER 1974



IVORY COAST
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF TO0)111SM - OnGANIZATION CHART
|~MtNISItfr/
CENTFIAI ADMINIS rRATION                                            SUPERVISED COMPANtES
I Cal»;eF )                                                         TUTELLE
I  X   r                      ,    ,           -    .    .            -              .                  [   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIETHO    -
REGULATION                                 HGTLri.                                          UNST4IOAN
|   Of TOURIStu INDUSTRY    l   l AND TOURIISM tXr)lots   |    |  I Hl)MDflON           ADMINISTI/ATION ANDI|)
0F TO*JRISM INOUSTRiY                   FN OAS   ~JCSPf<MTU                                          INANJCE
REGULATION
(HOTET            INSPECtION            STUDI ES        INFRASTRUCtURE           ACCOUNTING           INVESTMENTS          PERSONNEL               NAA
CLASSIFeCATION        &_CONTROL                              & ENVI RONMEN
&TC.>
STATISTICs           TRAINING            PROtOTION
Woard SwIb-9St9



ANNEX III
Page 1
IVORY COAST
APPRAISAL OF A TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Environment
The Institutional Framework
1.          The Ivory Coast is a member of the Western Africa Monetary
Union established in 1962 and composed of seven countries with a common
central bank, the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'ouest
(BCEAO). Banking and credit institutions in the Ivory Coast include four
commercial banks, three development banks and two leasing institutions
(Table 1). In addition, there is a public institution, Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement (CAA) which manages public debt,-holds and manages public
deposits and mobilizes local resources through issuing of tax-free bonds.
Another public institution, the Socieét5 Nationale de Financement (SONAFI)
was set up in 1962 to make direct participation in undertakings of national
interest and also to make available quasi-equity to small Ivorian enter-
prices through its Participation Fund. Finally, the Government established
a Guarantee Fund in 1966 to provide guarantees for credits granted to
small Ivorian enterprises.
2.          The financial sector has been progressively Ivorianized.  The
Government's share in BIDI is 21.1%, in CCI 75% and in BNDA 100%. Although
the commercial banks are still dominated by French, American, German and
Italian interests, about a third of their capital is Ivorian, 1/ mostly
through SONAFI's participation.  On the management side, all these banks
have an Ivorian either as general manager or as deputy manager and there
is progressive Ivorianization of professional staff.
Types of Financing
3.          The commercial banks provide short- and medium-term finance
to all sectors of the economy and have branches in 37 towns throughout
the country in addition to Abidjan and its suburbs. SGB is the largest,
with 34% of the commercial banks' total assets of CFAF 145 billion, as
of September 1974 and a total staff of 450.
4.          The development banks lend at short, medium and long term.
BIDI, established in 1965 and sponsored by Lazard and Chase, with a 7.1%
IFC participation, specializes in medium- and long-term lending to
medium- and large-scale enterprises in industry and tourism. Its
1/ Except BIAO which is not registered in the Ivory Coast.



ANNEX III
Page 2
outstanding equity and loan portfolio was CFAF 6.8 billion as of October
1973. BIDI's staff consists of 32 persons, all working in Abidjan. CCI,
in which CCCE has a 16.7% share and BCEAO 8.3%, is mostly engaged in
housing loans, financing of vehicles and small equipment .for consumers,
and financing of craftsmen and small entrepreneurs.  CCI's staff totals
about 154 persons; it presently operates one main agency in Abidjan and
three branches and plans to open three other branches soon in Man, Korhogo
and Abengourou. BNDA specializes in agricultural lending.
5.          The two leasing institutions mainly offer hire purchase schemes
for automobiles, trucks and public works equipment. Their operations have
expanded fast in recent years.
Interest Rates and BCEAO's Rules
6.          Interest rates and credit distribution are controlled by BCEAO
through a rediscount system. The rediscount rate was raised from 3.5% to
5.5% in 1973. Rates of interest charged by banks are determined by adding
a spread to the rediscount rate, which varies according to the nature and
term of credit extended. Interest rates for deposits (except cash deposits
under CFAF 200,000 which do not receive any interest) are determined by
adding to a basic rate (2.5%) a spread varying from O to 4%, depending
upon the amount and the term of the deposit. The volume of'credit is
controlled by allocating to each bank a ceiling for short-term rediscount
operations and a "commitment potentiality" for their medium- and long-
term operations. In addition, the banks can rediscount their loans to
borrowers only according to specific rules and after study by BCEAO of
each application. Since all nonrediscountable loans under BCEAO's rules
are made at an 11% interest rate, rediscountable loans have a major
advantage with interest rates varying between 6.5% and 9.5%.
7.          Short-term rediscountable loans may be granted to productive
enterprises if their financial structure is sound, in particular if their
net working capital represents a minimum of 5% (trade activities) or 10%
(industrial activities) of their current assets. In addition, their total
debt/equity ratio should be below 10:1.
8.          The same conditions apply to medium-term (2-7 years) redis-
countable loans. In addition, enterprises must themselves finance a
minimum of 20% of the project cost, and as a general rule loans cannot
represent more than 50% of the project cost (65% for agricultural and
industrial enterprises or 80% for loans to small- and medium-scale enter-
prises guaranteed by the Guarantee Fund). Loans for purchase of enter-
prises on used equipment cannot be rediscounted.
9.          BCEAO indirectly controls the allocation of long-term loans
through the commitment potentiality it determines for every financial
institution and through its directorship in BIDI's and CCI's Boards.
10.         To the extent that leasing operations are rediscountable at
BCEAO through a commercial bank, they are controlled along the same lines.



IVORY COAST
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Institutions
(As at September 30, 1974)
(CFAF billion)
Loans and Advances            Total Assets/
Development Banks                                 Short term  Medium term  Long term   Liabilities
Crédit de la Cote d'Ivoire (CCI)                  1.5          5.7          5.6          15.1
Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement                  -          2.1          6.6           9.6
Industriel (BIDI)
Banque Nationale de Developpement
Agricole (BNDA) a/                           3.0          0.9          1.1           7.0
Commercial Banks
Banque Internationale de l'Afrique
de l'Ouest (BIAO)                           20.5          1.9            -          33.1
Banque Internationale du Commerce
et de l'Industrie (BICI)                   22.0           4.2            -          34.5
Société Ivoirienne de Banque (SIB)               21.7          1.1            -          28.3
Sociéte Genérale de Banque (SGB)                 37.4          3.7            -          49.4
Leasing Institutions
TAW Leasing International                         n.a          n.a          n.a           n.a
Société Africaine de Crédit
Bail (SAFBAIL)                               n.a          n.a          n.a           n.a
a/ As at September 30, 1973.
DFCD
January 20, 1975



ANNEX IV
IVORY COAST
APPRAISAL OF A TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
List of Tables and Exhibits
Table
Personnel                                                         1
Loan Approvals 1969-74                                            2
Interest Rates                                                    3
Equity Investments at 9/30/74                                     4
Balance Sheets 1969-73                                            5
Income Statements 1969-73                                         6
Actual and Projected Financial Ratios 1970-79                     7
Projected Loan Approvals 1975-79                                  8
Projected Balance Sheets 1974-79                                  9
Projected Income Statements 1974-79                              10
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds 1974-79                      il
Exhibit
Assumptions for Financial Projections                             A
Board of Directors                                                B
Organization Chart                                                C



ANNEX IV
Table 1
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Personnel
(As at June 30, 1974)
Professional    Nonprofessional    Total
Director General                               2                 1               3
Operations Department
Director                                     1                                 1
Credit Division                              2                15              17
Execution Division                           1                 8               9
Technical Division                           1                 2               3
5               25              30
Finance and Administration Department
Director                                     1                 -               1
Recovery Division                            2                16              18
Accounting Division                          1                17              18
Administration Division                      1                37              38
Data Processing Division                     2                10              12
7               80              87
Inspection Department and Branches
Inspector General                            1                 i               2
Bouake                                       1                il              12
Daloa                                        1                 8               9
Korhogo                                      1                 7               8
Abengourou                                   1                 2               3
5               29              34
Total                          19               135             154
DFCD
January 14, 1975



CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Loan Approvals
(CFAF million)
1969             1970            1971              1972              1973           1974
No.    Amt.      No.    Amt.    No.    Amt.        No.    Amt.       No.    Amt.    No.    Amt.
Short term (up 2-yrs,)
Auto - private             586      241      673    261       971    409        701    367      562      379    601       410
Au.to - truckers             -        -        -       -        -       -        68    263       30      155       8       41
Household equipment    9,297        636   9,566    687   11,752    878    9,719    810   7,483           648 11,438   1,317
Commerce & artisans          9        7       16     10        19       5        49      14      66       22      29       13
Industry                     -        -        -       -        -       -         -       -        -       -       -        -
Housing - individual         -        -        2       1        -       -         5       2        1       1       5        2
9,892     884  10,257    959   12,742  1,292   10,542  1,456    8,142  1,205 12,081   1,783
Medium term (2-7 yrs,)
Housing - individuals    227        429       68    288        225   505        399    672       915  1,440    347   1,224
Housing - companies          4       56        2    623           32,225          5  1,546          1  1,194       3   1,599
Commerce & artisans         16       44       61    123         53    94         77    198        78    136    121        573
Industry                     3      125        1    215          1   160          1    204          -      -      10   2,151
250     654      132  1,249         282 2,984       482  2,620        994  2,770    481   5,547
Long term (over 7 yrs.)
Housing - individuals       429    643       331    542        287   502        522    753       840  1,056    288        539
Commerce & artisans           -       -        3      9           -     -         -       -         4     32       -        -
Industry                      1    158         2     75           1    10         2    250          -      -       3      238
Communities                   3    275         3    318           2   342         1    200          2    360       -        -         ( 
433  1,076      339    944         290   854       525  1,203        846  1,448    291       777
TOTAL            10,575  2,614  10,728  3,152    13,314 5,130   11,549  5,279    9,982  5,423 12,853   8,107
DFCD
December 11, 1974



CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Interest Rates
(percent per annum)
(As at September 30, 1974)
Primary         Cost to     Spread to         Lending
Source            CCI          CCI              Rate                  Remarks
Short term (up to 2 yrs.)
Automobile                BCEAO (CAA)      6.50      9.50-13.50      16.00-20.00 )  ( Fixed commission of 8% for 1 yr.
Household Equipment       BCEAO            5.50    10.50-16.50       16.00-22.00 )  ( and 10 or 11% for 2 yrs.
Medium term (2-7 yrs)                                                               a/
Housing - individual      BCEAO            5.50      1.25-5.50        6.75-11.00       Rate varies according to location
and use, lower outside cities and
for owner-occupied, higher in
cities and for rental. Rate
usually initially set at 11% and
reduced as appropriate..
Housing - companies       BCEAO            5.50         1.50            7.00           Guaranteed by Government.
Commerce, artisans      ( BCEAO            5.50 )                                a/
and industry         ( CAA              6.50 )   1.00-7.50         6.50-11.00       Lower rates for largest private
( USAID           3.50 )                                      and parastatal firms.
Long term (7-10 yrs.)
Housing - individual      CAA              7.00      1.00-4.00        8.00-11.00       Usually blended with medium-
term loan.
Industry                  CAA              7.00      1.00-3.00        8.00-10.00       Usually blended with medium-  C X
term loan.
Communities               CCCE             6.50         2.00             8.50
a/  Individual housing loans generally and small industrial loans occasionally include in the principal the
processing costs of outside legal and architectural services. Since such costs may be 5-10% of the loan
amount, effective lending rates may be that much highér than stated.
DFCD
January 19, 1975



CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Equity Investments (As at September 30. 1974)
(CFAF million.)
% or                             Share capital    CCI %
Company      Activity           Subs¢ribed   Disbursed   portfolio  Provisions  Dividends   of coeimany       caDital
SATMACI   Technical consulting       4.00        4.0o         14         1.80           -           40           10
CAPRAL    Food prooessing            2.50        2.50          9            -        4.93            50           5
SIETHO    Notel management           2.00        2.00          7         1.80           -             5          h0
SICOGERE  Property management        3.94        3.94         13            -        0.07            10          39
SICOGI    Rousing                    o.95        o.95          3             -       0.05          600            -
sIDI      Development bank           1.00        1.00          3            -           -          700            -
COFINCI   Development bank          15.00       15.00         51            -           -          300            5    X
29.39                   100
Total                 --
DFCD
JANUARY 19, 1975



ANNEX IV
Table 5
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Balance Sheets (as at September 30)
(CFAF million)
1970     1271       1972       1973       1974
ASSETS
Cash and bank deposits                  (48)      23        210        221        163
Receivables                              24         9        15          6          6
Other                                    20       24         28         2
Total ourrent                                                        26
Short-term loans                        706      997      1,204      1,204     1,494
Medium-term loans                     1,369    2,490      3,513      3,853      5,730
Long-term loans                      4.926    4,960       4862       4.960      5,603
Subtotal                           7,001    n,h7        9 579    10,017    12,527
Doubtful and in litigation              278      404        480        647        741
Less:  Provisions                         5)    (238)      (266)      (358)      (461)
Net portfolio                      7,094    B,613       9,793    10,306    13,107
Equity investments                       16       16         16         10         24
Less:  Provisions                                   )        {          th         (4)
Net equities                         10         9         18                    20
Other investments                        17       21         26         43         55
Land                                      4         4         5          5          5
Buildings (net)                          30       65         55         60        164
Equipment (net)                          15       24         36         33         52
TJnder construction                       2        2          1         71         1
Total fixed                                     9 F997-                          3
TOTAL                              7,168    8,794    10,177    10,780    13,680
LIABILITIES
BCEAO                                     -        -        266        286        392
CAA                                      90      250        325        207        324
Sight deposits                            5         5        10         13         13
Security deposits                        98      152        296        201        121
Payables and other                       75                 114        126        180
Total current                        202 ?01            1,011        533     1,031
BCEAO                                  943    2,124       3,022      3,205      4,833
CCCE,                                3,982    3,790       3,471      3,469      3,454
CAA                                     636      828        823      1,123      2,005
Government                               29         -         -          -          -
USAID                                ___                                 -         67
Total long/medium borrowings       5,590    U,772       7,316      7,797    10,367
General reserves                        206      257        377        414        461
Internal guarantee funds                214      279        348        605        687
Other                                     7                  il         12         12
Total general reserves a/                                 736 7-3  1,031     1,160
Share capital (paid in)                800       900      1,000      1,000      1,000
Reserves and accumnulated earnings       8       10         114        119        123
Total equity                         U       un         1.115      1.119    jdj2
TOTAL                              7,168    8,794    10,177    10,780    13,680
Operations on Government Account
Disbursed                                -      179        508        898        908
TJndisbursed                          100        6          1l          0
Total                               100      27h          19        92         9i7
U=
a/  These provisions are considered as part of equity.
DFCD
March 21, 1975



ANNEX IV
Table 6
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Income Statements (Year ending September 30)
(CFAF million)
1970     1971     1972      1973     1974
REVENUES
Loan interest and commissions               440      551       647      684       871
Inmcoe on investments                         4         7        6       17        19
Interest on deposits                         10         5        8       10   )   89
Other                                        21       3         76       6         )
Total revenue                  7        597      737       775      979
EXPENSES
Personnel                                    95      116       132      145       182
Administrative                               69        86      130      136       175
Depreciation                                 22       15        20       19        30
Interest on borrowings                      180      234       287      326       432
Provisions a/115                                               1        1         150
Total expenses                439       56       728       767      969
Operating income                             36       31         9        8        10
Extraordinary income (net)                   (9)        -        1         3       (5)
Tax                                          il       il         1        1         1
Net income a/                                16       20         7        4         h
a/ Of these provisions, the following
amounts were allocated to general
reserves to minimize taxable income.       49       51       120       37        47
Consequently, net income can be
restated as follows:                       65       71       127       41        51
DFCD
March 21, 1975



CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Actual and Projected Financial Ratios
Years ending September 30                     Actual                            Prolected
1901971 1972  1973 194       175 17    1977   1978J  1979
IZL97   7L 7217   1974                  17
Income Statement Elmeents as
% of Average Total Assets
Gross Incaee                         7.2   7.5   7.8   7.4  8.0        7.8    7.6    7.3    7.6    8.2
Less: Financial Excpenses            2.7   2.9   3.0   3.1   3.5       3.7    3.9    4.1    4.2    4.5
Administrative Ecpenses       2.8   2.7   3.0   2.9   3.2      2.8    2.7    2.5    3.1    3.3
Gross profit                         1.7   1.9   1.8   1.4   1.3      1.3    1.0    0.7    0.3    0.4
Less: Provisions for losses a/       0.4   0.8   0.4   1.0  o.8       0.8    0.5    0.3    0.2    0.1
Tax & extraordinary items     0.3  0.1   ..   ..   ..           ..    ..    ..    ..
Net profit b!/                       1.0   1.0   1.4   0.4   0.5      0.5    0.5    0.4    0.1    0.3
Income from Loans & Cost of Debt
!ield on term loans as % of average
term loans                          6.9   7.1   7.2   7.0   7.4       7.5    7.6    7.7    7.8    8.0
Cost of debt as % of average debt    3.5   3.7   3.9   4.0   4.5      4.6    4.7    4.8   4.9    5.1
Net profit and dividends
Net profit b/ as % of year-end
share capital                       8.1   7.9  12.7   4.1   5.1      6.4    6.5    5.7    3.0    6.2
Net profit b/ as % of average
equity c/                           5.2   5.0   7.5   2.1   2.3       3.4    3.4    2.8    1.5    3.0
Dividends as % of year-end
share capital                         -     -     -     -     -        -       -      -      -      -
Payout ratio                           -     -    -      -     -         -      -      -      -      -
Debt/equity c/ ratio
Long- and medium-term debt/equity    4.3   4.3   4.0   3.6   4.5       4.9    5.3    6.3    7.0    7.3
All debt/equity                      4.3   4.5   4.3   3.9   4.9       5.1    5.5    6.5    7.2    7.5
Debt coverage
Interest coverage                    1.5   1.4   1.5   1.2   1.1      1.1    1.1    1.1    1.3    1.4
Interest and principal coverage        -     -     -     -  1.1       1.1    1.1    1.0    1.0    1.1
a/ Excludes allocations to general reserves.
b! Includes allocations to general reserves.
c/ Includes general reserves as equity.
DFCD
March 21, 1975



ANNEX IV
Table 8
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
ProJected Loan Ap-plrovals (Tear ending September 30)
(CFAF million)
1975     1976     1977     1978     1979
Short-term
Household equipment                   800      900    1,000    1,100    1,200
Auto                                  00       600o   _ 650       700      750
1,300    1,500    l,O5   0 9        1,950
Medium-term
Housing - individuals               1,400    1,550    1,700    1,850    2,000
Housing - cempanies                 1,500    1, 600    1,700    1,800    2,000
Commerce, artisans and industry     1.250    1.400    1.500    1.500    1 600
4.,150    4,550   li,OO    5',150   5,0
Long-term
Housing - individuals                 750      800       850      900      950
Commerce, artisans and industry       ?50      300      300       300      350
Communities                           200      250      250       300      300
Hotels                                  -      770       770      770        -
S3E project                                    250      I00       475      525
1!       2,370    2,57
TOTAL                      6,650    8,420    9,120    9,695    9,675
DFCD
March 21, 1975



ANNEg IV
Table 9
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Pro.iected Balance Sheets (as at September 30)
(CFAF million)
(7Actual           1976      1977     1978      1979
(Actual)                                           L
ASSETS
Cash and bank deposits            163       883      444       435       258      172
Other                             Q2         4                  60        65       65
-262     928       4991     97        323       237
Short-term loans                1,494    1,132    1,141    1,225    1,308    1,391
Medium-term loans               5,730    7,355    8,625    9,361    9,748    9,999
Long-term loans                 5 603    6 432   _7391    8 581   10 522   12.084
Subtotal                     12,827   iÇ 919   17,157   19,167   21,578   23,3474
Doubtful and in litigation        741       983    1,142    1,241    1,322    1,390
Less:  Provisions                (461)    (545)    (63        (688)   _733)    (770)
Net portfolio                13,107   15,357   17,666   19,720   22,167   24,094
Investments                        75        70        70       70        70        70
Fixed assets (net)                234       300    1,425    2925    3,300    3.100
TOTAL                        13,680   16,655   19,660   23,210   25,860   27,501
LEABILITIES
BCEAO                             392      400       400       400       400      400
CAA                               324       325      325       325       325      325
Deposits                          134       200      225       250       250      275
Other                             180       110      120       130       140      150
Total current                 1,031    1,035    1,070    1,105    1,115    1,150
BCEAO                           4,833    6,277    7,394    8,434    9,102    9,698
CCCE                            3,454    3,508    3,371    3,031    2,703    2,427
CAA                             2,005    2,967    3,762    4,207    4,822    5,352
USAID                              67       237      237       237       237      237
IBRD - Hotels                       -         -      215       730    1,66o    2,l4O
IBRD-SSE Project                    -         -      125       450       890    1,365
Building finance                    -         -      625    2,125    2,275    1,975
Unidentified                        -         -         -        -         -         -
Total long/medium borrowingslO,367   12,989   l5,729   19,214   21,689   23,194
General reserves a              1,160    1,238    1,330    1,410    1,450    1,538
Share capital                   1,000    1,300    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500
Reserves and accumulated
earnings                         123      130       135       140       145      150
Total equity                  1,123    1,430    1,635    1,640    1,645    1,650
TOTAL          13,680   16,655   19,660   23,2L0   25,860   27,501
_= u                       _                 __ _  - '--=  z
a/  These reserves are considered as part of equity.
DFCD
March 21, 1975



ANNEX IV
Table 10
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Pro.iected Income Statements (Year endinR September 30)
(CFAF million)
197     1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
(Actual)
REVE;NUES
Loan interest and commissions   871   1,070   1,255   1,440   1,630   1,870
Income on investaents             19      20      20      20       20      20
Rents                              -       -       -        -     125     200
Other                             89     100     100     100      100     100
Total revenue             979   1,190   1,375  1I,560   1,875   2,190
EXPENSES
Personnel                       182      210     255     290      310     355
Administrative                   175     195     215     235      255     275
Depreciation                      30      20      20      20      185     240
Interest on borrowings          432      560     700     875   1,035   1,190
Provisions a/                      0     200     180     135              125
Total expenses            969   1,185   1,370   1,       1,       2,185
Operating income                 10        5       5       5        5       5
Net income a/                     4        5       5       5        5       5
a/ In order to be consistent with
CCI's past and current financial
reporting (Annex IV, Table 6),
these provisions include
allocations to general reserves
as follows:                   47       78      92      80     4h        88
(See nAssumptions for Financial
Projections", Annex IV,
Exhibit A, assumption II.D).
Consequently, net income can
be restated as follows:         51      83      97      85       45      93
DFCD
March 21, 1975



ANNEX IV
Table 11
CREDIT DE LA COTE DtIVOIRE
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds (Year ending Sertember 30)
(CFAF million)
SOTIRCES                                  1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
Borrowings
BCEAO:
Short-term                            1,267   1,333   1,400   1,467   1,533
Medium-term                               0   3 810   4 020   4 220   4 420
CAA-                 w,.3o7           5,420           ~~~~~~~~~5,953
Medium-term                             500      500     355      5oc     500
Long-term                             1.100   1.100   1.035   1,100   1 100
Subtotal                            1,600   1,600   1,390   1,600       1,60
CCCE:  Long-term                         520     405      240      29o     380
USAID:  Long-term                        170        -                -       -
IBRD: SSE Project, Long-term               -     125      325      440     500
IBERD: Hotels, Long-tern                   -      215     515      930     480
Building finance                           -     625   1,500       375       -
Unidentified                           _-                            -       -
Total borrowings                    7    ,1-27   8I 9,390   9,322   8,913
Loan collections
Short-term                            1,720   1,470   1,550   1,700   1,850
Medium-term                           2,4o4   3,129   3,564   4,334   4,685
Long-term                               701     824      887      774     846
Total                                  2    5,h23   6,001   6         7,381
Share capital subscription               300      200       -        -       -
Cash from operations
Net income                                5        5       5        5       5
Depreciation                             20      20       20     185      240
Provisions (net of losses)               78      92       80       4o      88
Total                                 103     117      107     230      333
Other accounts (net)                      55       25      30        5      35
TOTAL SOURCES                      12,410  13,878  15,526  16,365  16,662
USES
Debt repayments
BCEAO                                  3,385   4,026   4,380   5,019   5,357
CAA                                      638     805      945      985   1,070
CCCE                                     466      542     580      618     656
Building finance                           -        -       -     225      300
Unidentified                               - -          -            -       -
Total                 1,49-  5,373   5,905   6fl4    7,383
Loan disbursements
Short-tenm                             1,350   1,480   1,635   1,785   1,935
Medium-term                            4,165   4,510   4,375   4,755   4,950
Long-tenm                              1,620   1 830   2,100   2,760   2,L60
Total                               7,135   7,8      8,110   9,300   9,345
FIXED ASSET EXPENDITURE                  66   l,145   1,520       395      20
TOTAL USES                           11,690  14,338  15,535  16,542  16,748
CASE SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                  720    (460)      (9)   (177)    (86)
DFCD
March 21, 1975



ANNEX IV
Exhibit A
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Assumptions for Financial ProJections
I. Forecast of Operations
A. Approials: See Annex IV, Table 8.
B.  Diabursements and Maturities:
% Disbursed                   Term
YA      A+,     Yk+2        Total   of which:
Short tr                                         -           years    grace
Honsehold equipment and
auto                         90       10         -                    -
Medium term
Housing - individuals         15        45       40         5          -
Housing - coepanies           30        60       10         4          -
Coemerce, artisans and
industry                     30        70        -         5
Long term
Housing - individuals         25        50       25        10   '      6
Coemerce, artisans and
industry                     40        50       10        10          6
Connunities                   30        50       20       10           5
Hotels                        25        ho       35        15          4
II. Revenues and ExDenses
A. Interest rates,,cost, spread and sources; see Annex IV, Table 3.
B.  Administrative expenses grow 12% per annum.
C.  After new headquarters building is completed in 1978, rental
income will eventually reach CFAF 400 million per year.
D.  Provisions projected at maximum tax-free allowable, approximately
equivalent to 2% of annual disbursements or 1% of year-end loans
outstanding; provisions for identified bad debts maintained at 55%
of loans classed as doubtful or in litigation and general reserves at
approxiuately 7.5% of loans outstanding.
a/ YA: Year of approval.
IFCD
February 24, 1975



ANNEX IV
Exhibit B
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Board of Directors
(As at September 30, 1974)
Chairman        M. KONE ZOUMANA, General Manager, Société pour l'Or-
ganisation de la Distribution des Produits Agricoles
et Alimentaires (AGRIPAC)
Vice Chairman   CAISSE CENTRALE DE COOPERATION ECONOMIQUE, represented
by M. Michel Penent, Resident Representative
M. AMANLAN KASSY Georges, Union Leader
BANQUE CENTRALE DES ETATS DE L'AFRIQUE DE L'OUEST
represented by M. Jean Charpentier, Director
M. BLEDOU Konan, Manager of the Société de Gestion
Financière de l'Habitat (SOGEFIHA)
LA CAISSE AUTONOME D'AMORTISSEMENT, represented by
M. André Hovine, Director
M. DIOULO Edmond, Ministry of Construction and Ur-
banism
M. KOFFI N'GUESSAN André, General Secretary, Fonds
de Garantie des Crédits aux Entreprises Ivoiriennes
M. KOUASSI N'TE, Chef du Cabinet, Ministry of Planning
M. LECLERC Jacques, Chief of the Mission d'Aide et de
Coopération
M. TIEBA OUATTARA, Député-Questeur, National Assembly
M. YAPOBI Guillaume, Economic and Social Adviser
Government
Commissioner   M. COULIBALY Alassane, State Controller, Ministry of
the Economy and Finance.



CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Organization Chart
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Oirector General
i2)
Director of Operations                                                               l Director, Finarnce & Admin.l
(proposed)
Hotel                Credit               Eection               Technical                Accounting             Recovery             Administration       Data Processing
{1)             ~~     ~~(2)          ()()1)(2)                                                                                   (1)                   (2) 
Inspector-General
(1)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
l ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r H
Branches:    [    ouae                  Daloa                    KOrhogo              Abengouro 
Worid Bank-9618(R)
( ) Refers to number of professional employees in department.



ANNEX V
Page 1
IVORY COAST
APPRAISAL OF A TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Suggested Checklist for CCI's Hotel Appraisal
The following model is presented as a guide to those preparing
and appraising hotel projects for financing under CCI's proposed line of
credit. Since each project will differ in size, location, management,
financial plan, market, etc., it is impossible for any outline to be
followed religiously. The present annex is intended merely as a guide or
checklist to be adapted with flexibility to the individual project.



ANNEX V
Page 2
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Checklist for Hotel Appraisal Reports
I.  Summary and Reco=mendations
Brief description of the project
Identification of promoters and managers
Evaluation of technical and commercial feasibility
Itemized capital cost by foreign exchange and local components
Financial plan
Economic justification, profitability and evaluation
of risk for CCI
CCI's participation
- conditions to be included in legal documents
- special recommendations
II. The Promoting Company
Sponsors, description of their activities and hotel experience
Place of incorporation, place of business and telephone number
Ownership and actual control, main shareholders, foreign
participation
Bank references and others if necessary
Board of Directors
History of company and audits (with qualifications, if any)
Financial statements for at least three years, trends and
measures of profitability, stock prices
Pending claims
Consultants and professional advisers including legal counsel,
auditors and management consultants, with details of
qualifications and experience
III. Management Company
Same information (as necessary) as in II
IV.  The Project
Concept and objectives of proposed hotel
Region
- geographic situation, climate, tourist attractions,
proximity of towns, etc.
Location
- exact location
- description and size
- real estate status (statut foncier)



ANNEX V
Page 3
- evaluation of the site
- availability of land for expansion
Map showing location and significant data (access,
other hotels, etc.)
Proposed services (restaurants, bars, nightclubs, public space,
rooms, etc.)
- buildings and space allocations by type
- equipment list
- utility requirements
- possible extensions
Types of infrastructure necessary and those responsible for
financing, timing and execution
Sketches showing various aspects
- general plan
- plan de masse (?)
- cross-sectional plans
- room layouts by type
Management
- contracts and main features
- ground rent
- management contract
- lease
- subleases
- technical assistance
- organization chart
- staffing
- sources and quality
- number of employees by department with salaries
- seasonal aspects
- need for foreign staff by category
- hiring policies
- training program
- evaluation of other management systems
- pre-opening program
- operational manuals and procedures
- accounting and control
Legal aspects
- operating licenses
- construction permits
- insurance regulations and coverage
- other
Project timetable
Engineering and construction
- bidding and contracting conditions
- contractors' and subcontractors' names, experience
and technical competence
- suppliers' names, experience and technical competence
Technical assistance
- advisers and consultants (names, description of services,
duration of contract, guarantees and penalties)
- access to technical material and innovation, patents, etc.
- research in process



ANNEX V
Page 4
V.  Project Cost
Breakdown by foreign, local and total costs of:
Land
Site improvements
Civil engineering
- buildings
- mechanical equipment
- plumbing and sanitation
- heating, ventilation and air conditioning
- passenger and freight elevators
- sewage treatment and filtration plant
- other equipment
- electrical equipment
- furniture, fixtures and equipment
- furniture and furnishings
- kitchen
- cold storage
- laundry
- linens
- restaurant and kitchen utensils
- sports and playground
- vehicles
- other
- engineering and other fees
- pre-opening expenses
- interest during construction
- working capital
Cost per room and per square meter
Investment schedule over time
VI. Financial Plan
Summary plan with amounts and ratios
- share capital by investors
- senior loans
- junior loans
- contingent financing (if any)
- other
CCI financing (loan, equity (?), WBG participation)
- purpose and currency
- terms of financing
- security
- repayment schedule
- schedule of investments
- conditions of financing (restrictions on issuance of new
debt or securities, distribution of dividends, stock
options, etc.)
Other sources of permanent financing (same detail as above)
- internally generated funds
- sponsor's contribution
- deferrèd payments (e.g., supplier credits)
- equity, quasi-equity and loans by third parties



ANNEX V
Page 5
Short-term financing
- overdraft and other privileges
- advances from tour operators
VII. The Market
Review of pertinent tourism studies
Demand for tourism in past with trends broken down by
- arrivals
- guest nights (nuitees)
- length of stay
- hotel occupancy
Supply of facilities
- types, capacity and services of existing accommodation
- competitive analysis of existing supply vis-a-vis
proposed hotel
- other planned accommodations
- accommodations to be closed down
Projection o5 demand and supply
Clientele for proposed hotel with description
Sales forecast for proposed hotel
- market share
- occupancy curve
- tariffs and average room rates by category and season
Promotion
- advertising, sales promotion media and budget
- selection of sales channels
- contracts with travel agents, tour operators, airlines,
etc., with summary features
VIII.  Governient and Incentives Awarded
Approval by regulatory agencies
Licenses concerning foreign exchange dealing and
contracting abroad
Role as owner, client, supplier or competitor
Price and profit control, profit remittances and
capital repatriation
Incentives awarded
- infrastructure
- construction period
- operating period
IX. Financial Aspects
Assumptions for projection of financial statements, based on
Uniform System of Accounts for Hotels or other acceptable
format
- sales
- rooms
- foods
- beverage
- other



ANNEX V,
Page 6
- cost of sales
- food
- beverage
- other
- labor cost
- wages
- benefits and related taxes
- other direct expenses (supplies, etc.)
- undistributed expenses
- administration
- promotion
- utilities
- repairs and maintenance
- management fees
- rental and/or lease fees
- depreciation schedules
- amortization of pre-opening expenses and other
expenses capitalized
- amortization schedule of loans (interest and principal)
- taxes
- local and municipal, real estate
- income taxes
- sales tax
- other
- replacement of equipment schedule
Based on above projections (for life of CCI's loan)
- income statements
- balance sheets
- sources and application of funds
Presentation of financial indices
- profitability ratios
- gross operating profit/sales
- net profit after tax/sales
- leverage ratios
- long-term debt/equity
- gross operating profit/interest (times
interest covered)
- debt service/cash flow (times debt
service covered)
- break-even analysis
- discounted financial rate of return (over project's
life) with sensitivity tests on changes in occupancy,
cost and delays in starting
- dividend rate and policy
X.  Economic Aspects
Priority and importance of project for country
Projected expenditures by hotel guests outside hotel
Foreign exchange earnings of project
Employment created, direct and indirect
- effects on income distribution, standard of living,
consumption
Inflation, devaluation and other hazards of project



ANNEX V
Page 7
Other effects
- on country's development program
- economies of scale
- linkages with other industries or sectors
- transfer of technology
Benefit/cost analysis, including external costs and benefits
Economic rate of return on project based on estimated
economic life
- sensitivity tests
Value added
XI. Social Aspects
Social impact
Planning and enviromnental considerations
- zoning
- land use
- building regulations
XII. Recommendation
Recommendation on financing of project noting particular
advantages and disadvantages



ANNEX VI
Page 1
IVORY COAST
APPRAISAL OF A TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Profiles of Adviser and Consultants
Introduction
1.         TUnder the proposed project, there will be three appointments.
The appointees' objectives will be to help improve techniques for the
appraisal and evaluation of tourism projects presented to the Government
and CCI for approval and to strengthen the country's tourism marketing
effort. These assignments are critical for tourism development, and
selection of appropriate professionals is considered vital for the success
of the project. It is with this in mind that the following job descriptions
and profiles of candidates are proposed.
A. Adviser (Conseiller Technique) at CCI
Job Description
2.          The adviser would be responsible for the hotel and tourism
sector and for small-scale enterprises at CCI, spending about two-thirds
of his time on hotel projects. A major function would be to train Ivorian
staff and his duties would include: promotion of projects, search for
investors and managers, financial analysis, follow-up on projects and
advising various ministries on investments in the subject sectors.
3.          In his role of advising on promotion, the adviser would
participate in organizing subsidiary projects; to determine the scale of
investment, the financing of the project, the search for equity funds and
investors with emphasis on Ivorian participation, the market and the
selection of management companies.  He would also advise on and be present
at negotiations involving the above.
4.          The adviser would appraise dossiers presented ta CCI for
financing, giving his opinion particularly on financial and economic aspects.
He would be responsible for developing follow-up procedures and carrying
out periodic studies of the businesses financed and reviewing their
operations.
5.          The adviser would also work with the Ministries of Finance,
Planning and Tourism on financial and economic matters for projects
presented to the Goverument for approval and benefits under the Tourism
Incentive Code. In this capacity, he would sit on the interministerial
committee (Conseil Restreint des Investissements Touristiques) which
reviews hotel projects.



ANNEX VI
Page 2
6.          The adviser would be assigned to the Operations Department of
CCI and report directly to the General Manager.
Profile
7.          Ideally, the person appointed will have Vide experience in
development finance in general and in tourism and small-scale enterprise
projects as well. He should preferably have French as his mother tongue
together with a good knowledge of English. He should demonstrate sound
knowledge of and relevant experience in:
(a) financial and economic analysis of
projects from a lender's viewpoint;
(b) negotiation of projects;
(c) relations with merchant banks and
international financing institutions;
(d) underdeveloped countries, particularly
West Africa;
(e)  characteristics of tourism projects and
small-scale enterprises; and
(f) negotiation at high level in both the
public and private sectors.
Since the adviser will occupy a key position in the Ivorian tourism
industry, he should have sound decision-making ability within the frame-
work of his role.
B. Consultant Architect/Engineer
Job Description
8.          The consultant will be an architect and/or engineer specializing
in the hotel industry. His functions would include: technical analysis
of tourism and hotel projects, following up projects granted incentives
and reporting on their status, advising the Ministry of Tourism on
maintenance and control of publicly-owned tourism facilities and advising
CCI on technical matters related to its hotel investments, recommending
technical changes and reviewing bid documents where necessury.
9.          Before a promoter can proceed with a tourism project, he must
(among other things) obtain the approval of the Ministry of Tourism. The
consultant would develop standards and procedures for evaluating these
projects. In addition, he would advise on technical aspects of hotel
classification. Other important functions would be to give a technical
opinion on each project presented to the Ministry, to complement the work
of the Projects Department to thoroughly evaluate the cost estimates for
the project and to train Ivorian staff.



ANNEX VI
Page 3
10.         The consultant will work in the Projects Department and
report to the Minister.
Profile
il.         The person appointed must have an extensive background in
hotel architecture, layout and design and engineering. He should be a
native French speaker or at least have a sound working knowledge of it.
He must have relevant experience in and thorough knowledge of
(a) constructing, furnishing and equipping hotels;
(b) executing hotel projects for both chains and
smaller companies;
(c) conditions peculiar to the tropics. including
local materials and maintenance problems;
(d) knowledge of labor and material costs;
(e) underdeveloped countries, preferably including
West Africa; and
(f) feasibility studies, bid documents and
evaluation of contractors' and suppliers'
bids.
This consultant must be constructive and able to work in harmony with
others.
C. Consultant in Marketing
Job Description
12.         The consultant will be a marketing specialist familiar with
the tourism industry. His job would be closely linked with the market
study proposed under the project, and it would be his responsibility to
implement the findings of the study.  He should therefore become familiar
with each stage of the study, follow its progress and make reconmmendations. 1/
In addition to training Ivorian staff, his functions will be: to advise on
redefining the Ivorian tourism product; to integrate culture, folklore and
handicrafts into the tourism effort; to establish a marketing program for
the Ivory Coast in accordance with the proposals of the market study; and
to advise CCI on marketing aspects of projects submitted for financing
under the line of credit.
13.         The redefiniton and integration of all aspects of the Ivorian
tourism project is a major assignment that includes not only evaluating
the touristic assets of the country but also working with the various
agencies (e.g., ONAA, ICTA, SIETHO, Folkdance Federation, etc.) and
1/ He may in fact be recruited from the firm entrusted with the market study.



ANNEX VI
Page 4
coordinating their promotional efforts for different markets (pleasure,
business, circuit, conference). The consultant would also review the
entertainment value of projects presented to the Ministry for approval.
14.         To introduce the market program the consultant must not only
secure the cooperation of ICTA, SIETHO and the private sector but above
all establish an effective network of relations with the travel industry
in market areas. He must constantly test and monitor the program to
measure its success and will also advise CCI on all marketing aspects of
projects submitted for financing.
15.         The consultant will work in the Promotion Department and
report to the Minister.
Profile
16.         The person appointed will have broad experience as a practicinR
marketing executive. He should be multilingual with good command of French,
English and another European language, if possible. He should be a business-
school graduate and have sound experience in and knowledge of the following:
(a) marketing in advertising agencies and/or
hotels or other travel-related enterprises;
(b) the structure and characteristics of the
travel industry, including ground arrangements
and air travel;
(c) preparation of tourism projects and their
implementation;
(d) marketing tropical and developing countries; and
(e) dealing with high-level officials in the public
and private sectors.
This consultant must be self-assertive but still able to secure the
cooperation of his associates. His is a high exposure assigument that
requires top professionalism.



IVORY COAST
SELECTED HOTEL PROJECTS UNDER PRZPARATION (Novmb-r 1974)
RAME   L O C A T I O N             N-ob-r of         Cstegory      Prelininamy Cnet E.tim5tee                  COST PER ROOM                       PROMOTER                   NANAGEZENT           STAGE OF                   OBSERVATIONS
MME      S 1T E          CHLOCARISICON               -Sta-rs                        FUDILASCA                                           U   OLR                                                                 PREPANATION
S I T E         CHsRACTRRrSTICS                                       (billions)       (millionr)           '(000)
notel de 1a      Abidjsn        ERcellent loction            300                         (1974)                                                                         AMOS DJORO                                      Projact
Bsie             Rsnco           overlooking lagoon      +  100               4           4.0              17.8               10,000                 44,400             SIPILA                     AERHOTEL             prep.r.tio.                 residenne
5 minutes to center                                                                                                                    AERHOTEL                  (Italy)               advsnaad                     tourien
Hotel             Abidjsn        Good oneerni.1 lo-                                      (1973)                                                                                                                         Under pre-
SCOA              Plstea.        nation in the city         400                4          3.5              15.6                 8,750                38,900             SCOA                      SHERATON               p-ration                    Busin..
apontons site vve._                                                                                                                                              (USA)                 d.l.yed
looking lseoon
Hotel du             -             eélient location                                      (1972)                                                                                                                          Under pre-                 BEsineas
Plateau           Abidj.a        overlooking blvd            250              4           1.2               5.3                 4,800                21,300             Fidcidire                 RAKrADA INN           p-ration                     Convention
SODIT             Plateau        de Gaulle Ig neaire .-nner                                                                                                                                       (USA)                 dalayed
Hntel             Abidjas        Gond panormic l-                                       (1973)                                                                         Tleb
HOTAPRIC          Platea.        cation in th. city          150               4          0.8               3.6                 5,300                23,600             (privait                  ROTAPRIC              trlayed                      Business
Arms too t oop-at                                                                                                                      bnsassmen)                (Iv-ry Coast)
Notel             Abidjan        In ths city, poor                                       (1973)                                                                         Fnkhri
HOLIDAY INN       Plîteat        but caemernisl 1o-          110              4           1.05              4.70                9,550                42,400             (priv-te                  IOLIDAY INN            D lIyed                     Business
cation                                                                                                                                 businesasen)              (USA)
Hatal du          Abidjan        Pnor-min l.a.tion                                       (1974)                                                                         Mafit                     INTERCONTINENTAL       Und-r cons-                BEminesa
GOLF              Cocody         far from the ~ity           300              4           2.75             12.2                 9,160                40,700             Gov-rneet                 (USA)                 truction                     Convention
HNta1             Abidjsn        On th. b..ch                                            (1974)                                                                         Ivrian Group             SODETEL               Under Cons-
ARWABA            Vridi          far fro,, the City          150               4          0.8                3.6                5,300                23,600               50NAFI                  (Belgivn)              tutimn                      Tontin
HotaS de          Abidj.n
l'AEROPORT       Port Bouet   At ths  irport                250               4           1.5               6.7                 6,000                26,700             Ivorisa  Group               -Delayed                                         usinss3
MAS               BASO           Besoh/iagoon Nsturi.t       300               3          0.9               4.0                 3,000                13,300             MAS F ench rasl           SOGERAT               Fesaibility                  Taois..
asate Co.                                        tudy  oeplete



ANNEX VIII
IVORY COAST
APPRAISAL OF A TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Diabursements
Calendar Year                                Disbursement      Cumulative
1975
Fourth Quarter                              0.1              0.l
1976
First Quarter                               0.1
Second Quarter                             0.1
Third Quarter                              0.1
Fourth Quarter                              0.2              0.6
1977
First Quarter                               0.3
Second Quarter                             0.5
Third Quarter                              0.7
Fourth Quarter                              0.7              2.8
1978
First Quarter                               0.8
Second Quarter                             0.8
Third Quarter                              0.9
Fourth Quarter                             0.9               6.2
1979
First Quarter                               0.8
Second Quarter                             0.7
Third Quarter                              0.6
Fourth Quarter                              0.5              8.8
1980
First Quarter                               0.3
Second Quarter                             0.3
Third Quarter                              0.2
Fourth Quarter                              0.1              9.7






IBRD 11392
)  ; |                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEBRUARY 1975
IVORY COAST
MAIN EXISTING HOTELS AND
NEW PROJECTS IN ABIDJAN
2   EXISTING HOTELS
Ad          m                                                             NEW PROJECTS
|   RENOVATIONS
(/- MAIN ROADS
RAILROADS
BUILT-UPAREAS
(O           1            2
\ DE LAB                                                                            1< 7 - i 0 r Kilometres
c o d y
L                            -\9  .        k e   t    HOTEL RELAIS
B  `   .|   -GOLF HOTELf'
:0   ): \  .    -  § -   ~~~\OTEL IVOIRE                                        N"
A  {T  -  ofts >  F   t/                   L  4~~~~~~~A   c
E~~~~~~E
L~~~~~~~~~
MA- L` . w                ,a-               [:,,;,                         / Y
(VR    Cu .) \A                                                                zB AL    S                    L    
man;             oFouk                                                                                       PAu\Xt
0~~
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i? e  .   
B~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10E AEUL AYPi XÂT
ABLAN    JAN
.' 'A _y~        JPRE                                             \  
Z Lt      5     Korhogo   0  ==/-|;-
4  I VO RY   C OA SIT      9<-_                                                                                    <
«    Man        0OBUGkS   /J                                                                                 PALM BEACH 
04DQI°Q                4Lr<f                                                                              OTEL AKWABA e
-_,                    I~~~ G v/f    aio                                                  G uinF1e o
i  )       ~~~ABIDJAN   \                                                                              HOTEL AEROPORiT  )
Sa'RKssondrq      






IBRD   11393
-'A REAS    F: EXI ~ ~     ~      ~          WJ                                .                  -
-  f - »Zmnz?
-  J? 41           F?~~=542 Nat-   Mdi
k    < ~~DEN                                                     -,                   danotBlLbo=27arf
I z~~~~~~~~~~~1M
j   f                                Y-~~~~~~~~e
u ' 
c                                                         N ~~~ NkM'.h,
't                                                FEPKESSEUOUGOU                               z  k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D.
U ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x$                                                              on
vi/-                                    ASp ,,éD
y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R 2onkono                                                                           k
J   S""-- * SÉGJ~~~~~~LA                    i                      '      '"             Son Naçué >  fl~~~~~~~~~1'JDOUKOU   c~~~
~~0SttkOSCj       Ba ta ru~~4 S. ,,->IKoè w
Aaaro.                Adbie-c
-   .,    PfokKobo                           .3.'s1              ok
Ac  *A TI                'SAGNA                              N LtscEm-



