7 7b
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1124 IVC
Loan Agreement
(Tourism Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 11, 1975


﻿CONFOR.MED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1124 IVC
Loan Agreement
(Tourism Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 11, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY
COAST (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of part of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Part of the Project will be carried out by Credit de la C6te d'Ivoire
(hereinafter called CCI) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to CCI part of the proceeds of the
Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and CCI;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional tenns have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and CCI
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;


﻿4
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and CCI pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)   "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by CCI pursuant
to the provisions of the Project Agreement, in the carrying out of Part A of the
Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(d)   "Charter" means CCI's statutes dated July 8, 1963, as amended on
April 4, 1968 and on December 22, 1970;
(e)   "Statement of Policy" mear the statement of policy of CCI, as
amended on May 12, 1975; and
(f)   "Hotel Construction Project" means the construction of a new hotel
by an Irvestor, utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nine million seven hundred thousand dollars ($9,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule f to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, (i) for disbursements made
under the sub-loans (Part A of the Project), and (ii) for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services
required for Parts B and C of the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1981 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower
of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
November 15 and May 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, as such schedule shall be amended from time to time by the Bank
to the extent required: (i) to conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to the sub-loans, which shall have been
approved or authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account under Section
2.05 of the Project Agreement; provided that each resulting maturity of such
aggregate shall be increased by such amount as shall be required to repay the
principal of the Loan allocated to Parts B and C of the Project together with
and pro rata to the first ten installments of such amortization schedule; and (ii)
to take into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the General
Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section 2.08 of this
Agreement; provided that repayments due under the amended amortization schedule
shall be made on November 15 and May 15 in each year. Such amendments of
said Schedule 3 shall include amendments to the table of premiums on prepayment,
if necessary.
Section 2.08. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree:
(a)   If any sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to CCI in advance
of maturity or if CCI shall sell, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of for value
any sut loan or any part thereof, the Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank
and shall repay to the Bank on the next following interest payment date, together
with the premiums specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or in any amendment
thereof under Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the
Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan or part thereof and not theretofore
repaid to the Bank.
(b)   Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by the Bank
to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding to the
outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of the sub-loan so repaid or
disposed of.*
(c)  Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions shall not apply
to qny repayment made under paragraph (a) of this Section.
*    Any prepayments will be reflected in the amendments to the Amortization
Schedule (Schedule 3) to be made as provided in Section 2.07.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts B.2 and C of the Project,
and shall cause CCI to carry out Parts A and B. 1 of the Project, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound financial and administrative practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause CCI to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action
necessary or appropriate to enable CCI to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated to finance
Parts A and B. 1 of the Project to CCI under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CCI, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include those set forth
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement nor any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order: (a) to carry out Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ (i) an architect or engineer specialized in hotel work, and (ii) a tourism
marketing specialist, and (b) to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ tourism marketing consultants; all such
specialists to have qualifications, experience, and to be employed under terms and
conditions, satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall make available the services of the specialists
referred to in Section 3.02(a) to CCI for the evaluation of Hotel Construction
Projects.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause a representative of CCI, on behalf
of the Minist re de l'Economie et des Finances, to be a member of the Commission


﻿7
Restreinte des Investissements Touristiques established under Decree No. 73-401
dated August 22, 1973.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower recognizes the need to follow sound investment
policies in the hotel sector with the aim to adapt the supply to reasonable market
projections.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)   CCI shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation
of CCI under the Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that CCI will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CCI or for the suspension
of its operations, unless arrangements satisfactory to the Bank shall have been made
for the replacement of CCI.
(d)   A change shall have been made in the Charter which, in the judgment
of the Bank, may materially and adversely affect the financial condition or
operations of CCI.
(e)   A change shall have been made in the Statement of Policy without
the Bank's consent which, in the judgment of the Bank, may materially and
adversely affect the financial condition or operations of CCI.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   The events specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30 days.
(b)   The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and CCI.
(c)   The event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
CCI have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and CCI, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   The advisor referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement has
been employed; and
(d)   The specialists referred to in Section 3.02(a) hereof have been
employed.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, CCI, and is legally binding upon CCI
in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and CCI,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CCI in accordance with
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date December 8, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans                     9,000,000          100% of amounts
disbursed on ac-
count of foreign
expenditures for
direct imports
40% of amounts
disbursed on ac-
count of other
purchases of goods
35% of amounts dis-
bursed on account
of civil works
(2)  Technical assis-
tance services
(a)  under Part                150,000           80% (representing
B.1 of the                                 the estimated for-
Project                                    eign expenditure
component)
(b)  under Part                300,000           80% (representing
B.2 of the                                 the estimated for-
Project                                    eign expenditure
component)
(3)  Tourism market                 250,000           100% of foreign
study                                            expenditures
TOTAL        9,700,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the
Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that
of another country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above:
(a)   withdrawals from  Category (1) shall be made only on account of
sub-loans which shall have been approved by the Bank or for which the Bank
shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account, pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.04(a) and (b), respectively, of the Project Agreement, and
provided that the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of such sub-loans
shall have been incurred not more than ninety days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received the application for approval or the request for
allocation, as the case may be, and the information required by Section 2.04 of
the Project Agreement; and
(b)   no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in respect of
Category (3) on account of expenditures incurred after April 1, 1975 in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are


﻿14
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
A.    Long-term loans for hotel construction.
B.    Technical assistance:
1.   To CCI in organizational and lending matters (up to 24 man-months);
and
2.    To the Borrower's Ministry of Tourism in technical evaluation of hotel
projects and in marketing matters (up to 48 man-months).
C.    A tourism market study.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                               (expressed in dollars)**
November 15, 1980                                     165,000
May 15, 1981                                          175,000
November 15, 1981                                     180,000
May 15, 1982                                          190,000
November 15, 1982                                     195,000
May 15, 1983                                         205,000
November 15, 1983                                    215,000
May 15, 1984                                         220,000
November 15, 1984                                    230,000
May 15, 1985                                         240,000
November 15, 1985                                    250,000
May 15, 1986                                         260,000
November 15, 1986                                    275,000
May 15, 1987                                         285,000
November 15, 1987                                    295,000
May 15, 1988                                         310,000
November 15, 1988                                    325,000
May 15, 1989                                         335,000
November 15, 1989                                    350,000
May 15, 1990                                         365,000
November 15, 1990                                    380,000
May 15, 1991                                         395,000
November 15, 1991                                    415,000
May 15, 1992                                         430,000
November 15, 1992                                    450,000
May 15, 1993                                         470,000
November 15, 1993                                    490,000
May 15, 1994                                         510,000
November 15, 1994                                    530,000
May 15, 1995                                         565,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.07 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿17
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions or to Section 2.08(a)
of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1-1/4%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                               2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               4-1/2%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                         6-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                         7-1/2%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                               8-1/2%


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of this Loan Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)  The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time agree upon
arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the application of such
prepayment in addition to, or in substitution for, those set forth in paragraph
(b) of Section 3.05."
(2)  The following is substituted for the last sentence of Section 5.03:
"Applications for withdrawal, with the necessary documentation as
hereinafter in this Article provided, shall be made promptly in relation to
disbursements of sub-loans and to expenditures for Parts B and C of the
Project".
(3)  Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period
of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.04
of the Project Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by
the Bank in respect of any portion of the Loan allocated to Part A of the
Project, or having been so received, shall have been denied, or (c) at any
time the Bank shall determine, after consultation with the Borrower, that
an amount of the Loan allocated to Parts B or C of the Project will not
be required to finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, or (d) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, the Bank may by notice to
the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such applications
or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case
may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


