Documzt of
The World Bank
FOR OmaAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 13296
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
(LOAN 2725-IND)
JUNE 30, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENCE
Currency Unit - Rupiah (Rp)
At Appraisal US$1 = Rp 1,100
Rp 1 million = US$909
Annual Average Values
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
Rp/US$    909   1026  1111  1283  1644  1686  1770  1843  1950  2030
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                               =  39.37 inches (in)
1 kilometer (km)                          =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square meter (m2)                 =  10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m2)                  =  35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 hectare (ha)                      =  10,000 square meters (m2 or 2.47 acres)
1 square kilometer (kM2)            =  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 liter                             =  0.26 US gallons
ABBREVIATIONS
BTN              -  Bank Tambungan Negara
GOI              -  Government of Indonesia
PERUMNAS         -  National Urban Development Corporations
RSS               - A core housing unit affordable by low-income households



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia
HousinL Sector Loan (Loan 2725-IND'
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Housing Sector Loan (Loan 2725-
IND)" prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division, Country Department II of the East Asia and
Pacific Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The project was the third Bank financed operation in Indonesia concerned with urban housing.
Unlike the first two (Urban I and II), which funded city specific sites and services projects, the HSL
financed a time-slice (the last two years of Indonesia's Fourth National Development Plan) of the
government's mortgage finance program. BTN, the State National Savings Bank had responsibility for
this program and was principal executing agency for the project. HSL provided substantial TA to BTN
and the government's housing developer, PERUMNAS, as well as supporting important studies in the
housing sector through the State Ministry of Housing.
According to the PCR, the HSL achieved most of its objectives. It helped increase the supply of
lower cost housing by ensuring that a larger share of the total delivered were small, more affordable
units. By helping to remove regulatory constraints, the HSL enabled private deve!opers to deliver small
housing units that had formerly been the exclusive responsibility of PERUMNAS. Project technical
assistance provided to BTN and PERUMNAS had to overcome inertia to change, but the PCR
nevertheless reports some notable institutional strengthening in both cases.  Several studies were
satisfactorily completed under the project, helping the govermnent formulate a new National Housing
Policy and Strategy.
Overall, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory. Its institutional achievements are rated as
modest, and the sustainability of the project is unlikely.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality, and it discusses the sensitive nature of the project and related
implementation issues candidly and in sufficient detail, although important project information is not
included, notably final project costs, the income profile of project beneficiaries and the economic rate of
return. An audit is under way.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and my be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their officisl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN PROJEC-7
(Loan No. 2725-INDL
Table of Contents
Paqe No.
Preface.
Evaluation Summary ......................................................                            ii
I.     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....................... -
Section 1.    Project Identity ...................................
Section 2.    Project Background .................................
Section 3.    Project Objectives and Description .................                          3
Section 4.    Project Design and Organization ....................                          3
Section 5.    Project Implementation .............................                          4
Section 6.    Project Results ....................................                          5
Section 7.    Project Sustainability .............................                          6
Section 8.    Bank Performance ...................................                          7
Section 9.    Borrower Performance ...............................                          8
Section 10.   Project Relationship ...............................                          9
Section 11.   Consulting Services ...............................                          9
Section 12.   Project Documentation and Data .....................                          9
II. 'BORROWER'S EVALUATION .12
III.      STATISTICAL INFORMATION ......................................... .
g 5
Table 1.  Related Bank Loans                                 ..                           96
Table 2.  Loan Disbursement                                 ..                            98
Table  3.       Project Timetable                ...................    99
Table 4.(i) BTN Mortgage ........................................   100
(ii) BTN Mortgage Financing.
(iii) BTN Mortgage Features ...............................    102
Table 5.  Project Financed TA.                                                           104
Table 6   Use of Staff Resource.                                                         106
ANNEX
Annex 1  BTN Finances .107
Annex 2  Perumnas Finances .112
Annex 3         Compliance with Major Components ....................   116
CHARTS:
BTN Mortgages By Developers                                                        118
BTN Fund Mobilization                                                              119
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not othervise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.    -I



Il



INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN PROJECT (Loan No. 2725-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Housing Sector
Loan in Indonesia for which Loan 2725-IND in the amount of US$275 million was
approved on June 23, 1986. The loan was closed on December 31, 1992, twelve
months after the original schedule. It was 72% disbursed and the balance of
US$77.03 million was canceled in two stages: first an amount of US$ 75
million was canceled in October 1987 following a steep devaluation of the
Rupiah which resulted in an excess of financing over the Rupiah cost of the
project. The final cancellation of US$2.03 million was effected after the
last disbursement in May 1993. The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure
Operations Division in Department 3 of East Asia and Pacific Regional office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III). Part II (attached) of the
PCR was prepared separately by the Borrower and submitted to the Bank in April
1993. The PCR was prepared in accordance with the guidelines for PCR
preparation dated June 1989.
Preparation of this PCR was discussed with the staff of GOI during
the Bank's mission in November 1993, at the end of which a draft of Parts I
and III of the PCR were left for the Borrower to comment on, and the
Borrower's comments are yet to be submitted to the Bank. This report is
based, inter alia on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Project
Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.






- ii -
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN PROJECT (Loan No. 2725-IND)
Evaluation Summary
Objectives
The objectives of the project were: (a) expand access to housing
finance for low- and middle-income households; (b) reduce overall subsidies
and target the remaining subsidies to the lowest income groups; (c) reduce
dependence on government for funding housing finance and introduce new
instruments for funds mobilization; (d) stimulate production of low-cost
housing; and (e) strengthen the key institutions in the housing sector
(para. 3).
Implementation Experience (para. 5)
Housing production and mortgage loan origination proceeded very
smoothly after an initial delay in mobilizing consultants for institutional
support. Response from private developers was unexpectedly high while
Perumnas lagged behind targets in housing production. The removal of a
government ban on building smaller housing units by, and wider access to
construction loans for private developers were largely responsible for their
impressive participation in the subsidized housing program under the project.
A total of over 263,000 housing mortgages were taken by BTN under the
subsidized mortgage program in the last 3 years of Repelita IV, over 80% of
which were for housing units built by private developers, and the balance by
Perumnas.
Implementation of the technical assistance for institutional
strengthening revealed the formidable problems BTN was facing with its
mortgage portfolio with large number and poor records of delinquent customers.
This problem and others related to BTN management were tackled effectively and
the problem of arrears management is now under control. Some form of database
management systems have been installed in both the Ministry and Perumnas to
help monitor activities in the housing sector but the consistency of the data
still remains a major problem.
Results (para. 6)
The project had positive impacts on the housing sector by helping
GOI revise existing regulations and policies which restricted access to BTN
mortgage loans, and expanding the role of private developers. Subsidized
mortgage loans were better targeted and made to a broader base of household
income groups. Much of the technical assistance was utilized for policy
analysis and formulation. The result is an expanded role of the private
sector in the supply of low-cost housing and a good housing policy document
produced in 1991 which was adopted for implementation. An action plan for
implementation has also been mapped out. With regard to institutional
impacts, BTN and Perumnas management systems have been streamlined with
varying degrees of automation and top managements in BTN, Perumnas and the
Ministry have been replaced by new teams. Most of BTN operations are
undergoing transitions to full automation, which involved significant staff
training and redesign of management information systems and reorganizing the
loan accounting activities. These changes have helped BTN arrest a serious
problem of growing levels of loan arrears.



- iii -
Sustainability
The key benefits of the project include (a) the expanded role of
private developers in the supply of housing, and diminishing role of the
government in the production of housing; (b) improvement in the management of
the BTN, and automation of its operations; and (c) the establishment of a
housing policy framework for the Ministry to better respond to the supply
constraints and demand patterns of the housing sector. Private developers
will continue to be actively involved in the housing sector as long as
mortgage loans are available to their customers, and if they have access to
construction loans, but their involvement in the production of"
affordablel"(low-cost) housing which was largely motivated by the availability
of subsidized mortgage loans may not be sustainable without continued
availability of some form of subsidies. The institutional improvements in the
housing sector have made BTN more aware of its problems with loan arrears, and
of its challenges in mobilizing its funds through market mechanisms rather
than depend on government sponsored sources of funds as in the past. The
sustainability of the positive impacts of the project in the long term will
depend on the actual implementation of the government housing policy and the
pace of growth of the long-term credit market in Indonesia.
Main Findings and Lessons (para. 13)
1.          Although the project achieved most of its objectives, the large
problem of supply of affordable housing to the urban low-income households
which represents the bulk of the demand in urban housing largely must still to
be addressed. Access to credit for the key actors in the informal housing
sector which better responds to the demand holds a good promise because it
could provide an inducement to the informal housing builders who have no
access to any formal credit system.
2.          Removal of regulatory obstacles to the involvement of private
developers and expanded access to construction and mortgage loans must be
integral parts of a housing policy that ensures adequate supply of affordable
housing.
3.          Although the potential still remains to further explore
possibilities, resource mobilization for funding mortgage loans with minimal
dependence on the government, has proved to be difficult, partly on account of
institutional weakness, and more importantly due to undeveloped capital market
beyond the purview of the housing finance institutions.
4.          GOI could make a stronger contribution to the supply of affordable
housing by creating a conducive environment for the private sector in terms of
access to credit and housing markets, using policy and regulatory measures
that would promote business opportunities.



HOUSING SECTOR LOAN PROJECT
(Loan No. 2725-IND)
Project Completion ReDort
I.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Pro-ect Identitv
Name:                    Housing Sector Loan Project
Loan No.:                2725-IND
Board Approval:           06/23/1986
Loan Effectiveness:      12/16/1986
Loan Closing Date:       December 31, 1992
Disbursed:               US$ 197,968,557
Cancellation:            US$  77,031,493
Loan Amount:             US$ 275,000,000
2.    Project Background
2.1         The urban population of Indonesia increased at a rate of about 4%
per year during the decade of the 1970s, reaching 33 million in 1980, which
represented 22% of the country's total population. The growth rate is
expected to remain at the 4% level in the next decade which would lead to an
urban population of about 72 million or 36% of the total by the year 2000.
When the project was prepared, it was estimated that every year, 2.2 million
new urban residents would need additional housing and urban services. In
addition it was envisaged that more housing was already needed for
replacements and improvements of existing dwellings since most of them were
reported to have been built out of semi-permanent materials which lasted less
than 10 years.
2.2         The supply of housing was segmented into a formal or regulated
supply produced in accordance with government regulations by private and
public developers who had legal access to land and institutional finance, and
an informal or unregulated supply produced by individuals and builders who
were reported to lack legal access to land '/ and formal housing finance. The
annual output of the formal housing developers which was characterized by an
increasing share of the private developers and a shift to larger and more
expensive units, ranged from 40,000 to 65,000 units during the early 1980s,
and represented less than 20% of the estimated household formation during this
period. In view of the limited supply of formal housing, most urban
households relied on informal builders and creditors to meet minimal shelter
requirements. Informal housing construction was quantitatively significant,
but the demand for low cost housing far exceeded the combined supply of the
formal and informal developers and individual builders.
2.3         To address the large demand for housing and the supply constraints
noted above GOI's goals for the sector were: (a) to provide mortgage finance
for 325,000 units in Repelita IV (1984-1989) to be built by both Perumnas and
private developers; (b) to take complementary measures to strengthen the
performance of the key sector institutions involved in the delivery of housing
1//  The policy studies carried out under the project found out
that many informal sector households and rental
entrepreneurs have good tenure to their properties acquired
overtime through incremental building.



-2 -
viz BTN, Perumnas and the State Ministry of Housing; (c) to take policy and
regulatory measures focussed on reducing the financial dependence of the
housing program on budgetary funds and Bank Indonesia subsidized liquidity
credits; (d) to raise levels of mortgage lending rates which were highly
subsidized; and (e) to re-examine regulations that impeded formal private
production of low-cost housing.
2.4         The government housing policies and programs evolved from
relatively marginal activities to a significantly expanded program. The
government's first policy initiatives began in the early 1970s with the
establishment of the National Urban Development Corporation (Perumnas) to
produce low cost housing, an agency to coordinate housing policy, and a home
ownership financing program (KPR) for purchasers of Perumnas housing, through
the State Savings and Housing Bank (Bank Tanbungan Negara or BTN). More than
half of Perumnas housing units were core houses of 15-21 M2 on lots averaging
6CM2 in size, with design standards and costs affordable by low income urban
families. The basic policy framework established over the previous decades
was to build or provide mortgage financing for housing aimed at households
between the 20th and the 80th percentile of the urban income distribution,
with the Kampung Improvement Program (KIP) addressing the need for shelter-
related problems for those below the 20th percentile. As a general guide the
Perumnas housing was aimed at those below the median income, and the privately
built housing catered to the needs of those households above the median income
(approximately Rp. 175,000 per month in 1985). The housing finance system was
dominated by BTN which was designated by the government as the sole financial
intermediary in the sector. Other institutional housing financial sources
such as P.T. Papan Sejahtera, established in 1980, catered to higher income
groups on a very limited scale averaging less than 1,000 loans per year.
Apart from BTN, and P.T. Papan, there were no other specialized mortgage
lending institutions in Indonesia, though some large employers including
commercial banks were believed to provide housing loans to their employees and
clients:
2.5         In September 1985, the government, after extensive discussion of
sectoral constraints with the Bank, took several policy initiatives, designed
to improve sector performance among which the following were relevant to the
housing sector:
(a)   revise mortgage lending rates from a range of 5-9% p.a. to a new
range of 9-15% p.a.;
(b)   raise downpayment requirements from a range of 5-10% to a new
range of 10-40% of house values;
(c)   explicit redirection of BTN's lending program towards smaller
mortgage loans affordable by lower and middle income groups;
(d)   introduction of fully blended system of funding which limited low
cost government funds for BTN and encouraged BTN to mobilize non-
government resources;
(e)   lifting the restriction imposed on developers other than Perumnas
to build house types below 36M2; and
(f)   guaranteeing access to government-supported housing to any person
whose income was at or below the prescribed ceiling (Rp. 300,000
pm) without restrictions based on occupational status.
2.6         In addition, specific measures were initiated to strengthen sector
institutions, including managerial, procedural and other institutional changes
involving BTN and Perumnas.



2.7         These changes in sector policies and related regulatory and
institutional measures constituted an important step in the long term process
of sector rationalization and provided the basis for the Bank loan.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1         The objectives of the project which were in line with GOI's goals
for Repelita IV were to:
(a)   expand access to housing finance for low- and middle-income
households;
(b)   reduce overall subsidies and target the remaining subsidies to the
lowest income groups;
(c)   reduce the reliance of the housing finance system on government
funds and introduce new instruments for resource mobilizations;
(d)   stimulate the production of low cost housing by both public and
private developers;
(e)   generate employment at low foreign exchange costs; and
(f)   strengthen the key institutions in the housing sector, namely BTN,
Perumnas and the office of the State Minister for Housing (MOH).
3.2         The components of the project were:
(a)   a line of credit to BTN to finance a share of total mortgage
lending commitments during the last three years of Repelita IV;
(b)   provision of technical assistance and computers and other
equipment for BTN and Perumnas to strengthen their operational
performance and management, and for the MOH to develop its housing
policy formulation and monitoring. The technical assistance for
BTN and Perumnas was intended to include: assistance in
implementation of new systems, manpower planning studies, and
advisory services for management, project monitoring and
computerization. The technical assistance for the MOH was
intended to include: (i) a study of housing market behavior in
urban areas focusing on  'emand patterns and supply constraints;
(ii) a post-construction study of low-cost housing projects; and
(iii) advisory services for housing policy analysis, and (iv) a
study of land titling bottlenecks for BTN financed housing.
4.    Proiect Desian and Organization
4.1         The design of the project was responsive to the stated objectives.
In the face of growing demand for urban housing, the bulk of which was from
the low income households, the number of BTN-financed housing was noticeably
growing sharply, but most of the increases in lending were directed to the
higher cost housing units by private developers rather than to low cost
housing units by Perumnas. In response to this demand pattern; the role of
private developers was expanded in late 1970's when the government authorized
BTN to provide finance for housing units built by private developers and state
commercial banks to provide construction loans to private developers for up to
75% of total construction costs. As BTN's mortgage loans were for up to 90-
95% of the value of housing units at highly concessionary interest rates
ranging from 5 to 9% over 5 to 20 year terms, the subsidies imbedded in BTN
mortgage finance, intended to improve affordability of the low income home



-4-
buyers, were instead shifting to the high income households. The project also
recognized that the funding arrangements which had until Repelita III depended
on government budgetary allocation including the liquidity credits program
through Bank Indonesia, was not sustainable, and was also impeding an
emergence of a housing finance market considered essential to stimulate the
supply of housing. Although the conceptual framework of the project focussed
on the formal housing market which played a minor role in the supply of
housing comnared to the informal housing market that provides over four fifth
of urban housing, it still established the basis for understanding the
workings of the largely unknown but dominant informal housing market
(para.2.2_).
4.2         The principal responsibilities for the implementation of the
project were organized around (a) BTN as the beneficiary of the funds for
onlendinS as mortgage loans in accordance with strict adherence to government
policy statement and operational guidelines which were formally adopted; (b)
Perumnas, and private developers, who in close collaboration with BTN built
housing according to prescribed standards and price ranges for eligibility of
financing by BTN; and (c) the office of the State Minister for Housing (MOH)
which was responsible for overall coordination and monitoring, and
implementation of various housing policy and institutional studies under the
project. These arrangements which depended heavily on effective coordination
of construction activities of the private developers and Perumnas on one hand,
and BTN's mortgage lending activifes which concentrated on appraisal and
supervision of housing projects on the other, defined the key roles for the
implementation of the project. The arrangements included specific
institutional action plans for BTN and Perumnas to overcome some of the
institutional weaknesses that had been identified.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1         The project was expected to be completed and the loan to be fully
disbursed in four and half years with the closing date set at December 31,
1991. But due to initial delays encountered, and the need to allow more time
for completion of institutional strengthening and policy development, the
closing date of the loan was extended by one year and the loan was closed on
December 31, 1992.
5.2         Principal reasons which were responsible for the delays were:  (a)
a delay of about 3 months in loan effectiveness attributed to the selection of
consultants for BTN; (b) a noticeable slow-down in the BTN operations largely
attributable to changes in the mortgage lending terms, and stringent
requirements for the developers; and (c) a significant expansion in the scope
of the technical assistance particularly for the MOH.
5.3         Despite these initial delays, the pace of implementation of the
housing program accelerated once the technical assistance was in place
primarily due to an unexpectedly large response from private developers which
was not foreseen at appraisal. By the end of Repelita IV (1989) the housing
program had been completed, surpassing the target of housing units set for the
last three years of the 5 year plan by over 68,000 units. Over 80 percent of
the housing units financed by BTN during the project period were constructed
by private developers, and the rest by Perumnas. It is noteworthy that the
prices of the units built by private developers were mostly in the higher end
of the range prescribed for subsidized mortgage interest rates. Private
developers were less attracted to the low cost units as profit margins of such
units were perceived to be lower than the higher price units. The technical
assistance, which helped in the implementation of institutional and policy
actions, however, required continuation until the end of 1992 and the TA need
for policy analysis and the institutional actions justified extension of the
Loan closing date by 12 months.



-5-
6.    Proiect R-sults
6.1         overall, the project results were satisfactory considered from the
standpoint of the stated objectives which focussed on removal of existing
sector policy and regulatory constraints and formulation of new policies,
institutional strengthening, expanding access to housing finance and
increasing the output of affordable low-cost housing. The project more than
met the output target of 195,000 low-cost housing units and provided
subsidized mortgages to households who met eligibility criteria without
preferential treatment to particular occupations. BTN's records indicate that
the objective of targeting housing subsidies to the low and middle income
groups was substantially achieved. Some 60 percent of the housing units were
sold to home owners with monthly incomes of Rp 200,000 and below, and only 10
percent to home buyers with incomes in excess of the Rp 300,000 limit set for
eligibility for subsidized mortgages from BTN. The average value of the
housing units built under the project with sizes of 36M2 or less ranged from
Rp 5,000,000 to Rp. 11,000,000 which accounted for over 70 percent of the
total units built during the project period. By restricting the subsidies to
the low-cost housing and allowing private developers to build subsidized
housing with unit sizes below 36M2, the project has been able to more than
quadruple the supply of low-cost housing which previously was constrained by
Perumnas' limited capacity (Chart 1). The reduced role of Perumnas has,
however, meant that the share of the more affordable type (T-21) of housing
associated with higher level of subsidies correspondingly diminished as
private developers tend to build houses of higher value.
6.2         A total of 263,000 mortgage loans valued at US$ 600 million with
subsidized interest rates were made under the project. Out of the original
loan of US$ 275 million, an amount of US$ 77 million was canceled primarily
due to a major devaluation of the Rp. in 1987. This cancellation had no
impact on the scope of the project.
6.3         Regarding policy analysis and reform in the sector, several
studies were successfully completed and came up with specific recommendations
on a wide range of issues in the housing sector. Based on the recommendations
of various studies, a National Housing Policy and Strategy (NHPS) was prepared
and adopted in 1990. Following the adoption of the NHPS, a detailed action
plan for implementing the strategy in 9 key areas of problems (land use
planning a'id markets, housing finance, institutional framework, etc) was drawn
up indicating key actions, performance indicators, and sources of funds. If
the NHPS is implemented as proposed in the action plan would not only expand
the supply of low-cost housing and increase affordability for many poor
households, but it will also shift the responsibility for housing supply to
private sector institutions by fostering incentives and removing barriers to
land and credit markets and help develop a housing market. Nonetheless, the
role of the (formal) private developers will be likely to remain limited in
the critical area of the production of housing affordable to low income
households which accounts for the bulk of the demand for urban housing.
6.4         With regard to the institutional strengthening of BTN and
Perumnas, some notable achievements particularly in the case of BTN are worthy
of note. For instance, while BTN's operational cash generation grew from
about Rp. 38 billion in 1986 to about Rp. 80 billion in 1991, its dependence
on the government for mobilization of funds has declined considerably. The
percentage share of government sponsored funds (including IBRD loan) in BTN's
total sources, at about 79 percent in 1986, started to decline in 1987 and was
22 percent in 1992 (Chart 2). The force behind what appears to be a rapidly
diminishing importance of government funds in housing finance was the stepped
up effort by BTN to collect mortgage arrears from a large number of borrowers
whose mortgage records at BTN were poorly maintained. Also, BTN management
underwent a change in 1992 and the new team appears to have streamlined
operations and a credible organizational arrangements have been made to



address the mortgage arrears problems. Most arrears have now been mapped
countrywide and a loan account officer is appointed for every 1000 customers.
The 1000 customers under each loan account officer are monitored regularly and
foreclosure actions are taken in less promising cases. Loan collections have
steeply increased (by 190 %) from their level of Rp. 157.6 billion in 1988 to
well over Rp. 457 billion in 1992. Other efforts that have helped BTN reduce
its dependence on government funds include about Rp. 400 billion in bond
issues over the period and a greater effort in deposit mobilization which
helped to raise the ratio of deposits to net housing loans outstanding to 53.4
percent in 1992 from 16.3 % in 1986 (Annex 1(c)).
6.5         With regard to the performance of Perumnas, its housing operations
were characterized by decline in production as private developers quickly took
the lead in the production of housing financed by BTN under the project.
Housing units produced by Perumnas and financed by BTN declined sharply from
about 31,000 units in 1986 to an average of about 14,000 per year during
1987/91 compared with an average of about 59,000 units per year produced by
private developers during the period (Chart 2). Perumnas has not only been
producing low cost units, but has also been developing low cost housing
products in tandem with market research that has produced a very low cost
RSS) product that is reported to have been well received by the target income
group. However, as a developer, Perumnas remained marginally profitable
during the project period and received only minimal funding from the
government. Its housing operations were mostly funded through its limited
internal cash and some borrowing. Its main contribution is probably not in
the supply but rather in the design of new products and market analysis for
acceptance.
7.    Proiect Sustainability
7.1         The formal housing sector which this project supported represents
only a fraction of the housing supply dominated by individual builders often
provided on an incremental basis as addition to owner occupied homes. But
there is no doubt that the supply of affordable housing by the formal sector
has significantly been expanded under this project. The two key factors in
this quantitative achievement were: (a) the decision of the government to
allow private developers to build low-cost housing for home buyers eligible
for BTN mortgage financing, and (b) the availability of a subsidized source of
mortgage finance from BTN. BTN's mortgage lending activities initially were
closely linked to public housing program built by Perumnas which accounted for
more than half of annual BTN's lending operations. But as a result of the
project, the relative role of Perumnas as a principal supplier of low cost
housing has diminished due to its financial limitations and the emergence of
competition from the private developers.
7.2         While t'ie number of low-cost housing financed by BTN continued to
increase during the project period the share of Perumnas-built units declined
sharply, and by 1990 nearly four fifth of the units financed by BTN were built
by private developers. The private developers have responded very well to
important policy decisions of the government which expanded access to credit
for construction through the state commercial banks as well as permanent
financing toward the purchase of houses through the BTN. Since a large
portion of BTN funds under the project was government sponsored and
subsidized, future availability of subsidized mortgage finance for low-cost
housing is a key for private developers to continue active participation in
the production of low-cost housing. However, private developers are likely to
continue their active participation in the production of housing mostly for
households in the high income distribution range, as financial institutions
expand their mortgage portfolios. If the production of low-cost housing in the
formal sector is to be responsive to the predominantly low income orientation
of the demand, the government will have to continue playing a leading role by
providing inducement to the private sector in the design and production of



affordable products until the p,ivate sector is able to adequately cover this
important segment of the housing market on its own. Also the informal housing
sector of which little is known, but which produces market responsive products
needs to be given recognition for its role by making it possible for the
informal sector to access the formal credit system for housing finance. The
new housing policy document recognizes the importance of the informal housing
sector and seems determined to reduce supply constraints in the informal
sector. Sustainability of what was achieved in this project, depends to a
large extent on GOI's will to implement its recently adopted housing policy.
A break-through in the credit market for BTN funding, and in extending small
scale credit to the informal sector will ensure sustained levels of quality
affordable housing.
Bank Performance
8.1         This project is the third Bank financed operation in the
Indonesia's housing sector. The previous two operations focussed on two key
issues, namely to demonstrate that sites-and-services with core units
represented a viable approach to the provision of low-income housing, and the
strengthening of the key government institutions engaged in production and
financing of housing. Lessons learned from these two previous approaches
pointed to the fact that specific projects are too small to significantly
affect housing sector as a whole when it decided to support this third
project.
8.2         The Bank changed its approach to the housing sector by taking a
more global perspective on the sector and its relationship to the economy.
Rather than focus in on site specific operations, as in the past operations,
the Bank engaged in an intensive dialogue with the government with most
attention focussed on policy issues such as, lending terms, resource
mobilization, regulatory constraints in the housing market, and macro-economic
and financial sector concerns. The Bank strategy work that underpinned the
sector dialogue which preceded the project undoubtedly contributed to the
housing sector policy statement of the government, and general operational
policy statements for BTN and Perumnas with detailed institutional action
plans embodying the principal objectives of the HSL. However, even though the
Bank recognized the dominant role of the informal sector, the project
formulation failed to significantly harness, the potential of the informal
housing sector. A study of the workings of the informal housing sector was
nonetheless included in the project. The findings of the study proved that
contrary to early beliefs, the informal housing sector is well organized,
responsive to the real demand for housing, does not benefit from government
subsidies, but is limited by lack of access to credit in the formal sector.
It would seem that the project's impacts on the supply of housing would have
been greater if the informal sector efforts were supported. Ways and means to
strengthen or develop the key institutional players in the informal sector
would have been a useful component of a housing project for low income
households in the Indonesian setting. The new housing policy recognizes the
importance of the informal sector but no explicit actions are proposed. There
are suggestions, but only in broad sense, to develop credit instruments that
will provide access to credit for the major players in the delivery of housing
for low income households. Credit access which is non-existent will
undoubtedly increase the supply of affordable housing.
8.3         The project implementation was adequately supervised by the Bank
for a total of 94 Sw over 6 years averaging about 14 SW per year. During this
period, a total 9 supervision missions visited Indonesia often combined with
the preparation of a follow-up project. Bank supervision efforts were intense
in the first year immediately following loan effectiveness and evidently
helped in overcoming some of the initial start-up delays. However, as soon as
the loan processing procedures of BTN improved and disbursement from the loan
persistently exceeded appraisal targets, supervision intensity declined and



- 8 -
focus shifted towards the preparation of the next project. This shift helped
in focussing on institutional problems BTN faced in its portfolio and
financial management, resource mobilization, and housing supply constraints
and demand patterns. It also permitted a continued focus on sector policy
development activities supported by the first project. However, due to GOI's
reluctance to opening up mortgage financing to all banks (not limiting it to
state banks) which was required under Bank's financial sector operations
guidelines, the work on processing the follow-on project was stopped and the
project was dropped from the lending program.
Borrower Performance
9.1         At the beginning of the prrject, the government adopted a detailed
housing mortgage financing program coo-dinated by MOH, and in close
cooperation with the key agencies in tne housing sector. A policy statement
which focussed primarily on the supply and mortgage financing of low-cost
units affordable by low- and middle-income families was adopted. The Borrower
was very successful in implementing the policy goals which helped raise
mortgage lending rates and redirected BTN's lending program towards smaller
mortgage loans, affordable by low- and middle-income groups, expand supply of
low-cost housing by permitting private developers to build such units, and
made effort to provide access to such housing for every household in the low
income category.
9.2         These changes in the housing policies indicate that the government
recognized the need for an integrateca set of policies which tackle a wide
variety of constraints to the supply of affordable housing. The government
undertook studies of the key constraint to land markets, housing finance, and
supply of infrastructure, with special emphasis on the role of policy
instruments (subsidies and regulations). The studies which were generally
well executed came up with specific recommendations on a wide range of policy
directions mostly centered around the issues of land, credit for low cost
housing, subsidies, housing finances institutions, etc. The government,
following the review of the recommendations, drafted a National Housing Policy
and Strategy (NHPS), and drew up a detailed plan of actions for implementing
the strategy. These documents are broad enough to encompass the whole
spectrum of issues in the sector, but how the policy statements are going to
be translated into operational and monitorable actions remain to be seen.
Early efforts being made suggest that GOI intends to implement policy actions
steadily to ensure that such changes are sustained.
9.3         The performance of Borrower's agencies was satisfactory even
though there was general inertia to change. But the managements of both BTN
and Perumnas have since changed. BTN's long standing problems with loan
arrears remained formidable until the new organization of the loan
administration was put in place, and although accounting systems remain weak,
there have been notable improvements especially in the loan accounting. BTN
management is more aware of the problem now than at anytime in the past. In
the last final years of the project noticeable improvements in collections
have been achieved (Annex 1(b)). Project and individual loan appraisal
procedures improved thereby allowing a larger volume and value of mortgages to
be processed during the project than in previous periods, so did the treatment
of BTN's non performing mortgage portfolio. Apart from achieving some modest
success in developing new financial instruments for non-government resource
mobilization, the extent of BTN's reliance on government sponsored resources
has diminished remarkably since the beginning of the project implementation as
BTN has been able to maintain mortgage lending operations at comparable levels
principally by using non-government sources of funds.
9.4         Perumnas which once produced more than 50% of low-cost housing
financed by BTN was mired in institutional and business challenges which
reduced its role in the supply of low-cost housing to no more than a fifth of



- 9 -
the total affordable units financed by BTN during the period. It must be
noted, however, the Perumnas housing operations which focus on low-cost
housing are more dependent on the availability of subsidized loans from BTN
than private developers who choose to build upscale housing units.
10.   Project Relationship
10.1        Bank-Borrower relationship in the project emerged from a
combination of Bank sector report and supervisions of Fourth Urban Development
Project (Loan 1972) which provided institutional support to Perumnas in
several cities. The strength of the relationship lay in arriving at a common
understanding of the key sector constraints through a productive dialogue of
issues which were identified as (a) sector's artificially low mortgage lending
rates maintained by BTN through a complete reliance on government funding; (b)
a misdirected housing subsidy program implied in the low BTN mortgage lending
rates which was not benefiting the low-income households; and (c) a regulatory
framework which limited the supply of low-cost housing to an institutionally
weak Perumnas. Equally important was the strong will of the Borrower to carry
out very positive policy and regulatory decisions prior to the project which
enhanced the achievements of its objectives. The main weaknesses of the
relationship showed primarily in the approach to future subsidies of low-cost
housing. While the Bank took a position that subsidies for housing to the low
income group are best targeted by direct payments, the Borrower maintained
that subsidies would be continued through below market interest rates on
mortgage loans for low-cost housing and the phasing out of government funded
program to BTN. There was an early recognition by both the Borrower and the
Bank of the need to expand the role of the private sector in the housing
sector.
11.   Consultant Services
11.1        Both the Borrower and the Bank recognized the vital role
consultants played in enabling this project to achieve project's stated goals,
not only in physical targets, but most importantly in the policy analysis,
formulation, and adoption, and the institutional strengthening of the
Ministry, BTN and Perumnas (para 9.1). However, the consultant services that
assisted BTN in the design and development of an automated management
information system was not put to good use because of the advances in computer
technology which rendered the newly developed MIS systems obsolete. But it
can be said that a large number of BTN staff were exposed for the first time
to computing and automation of banking operations during the tenure of the
consultants. The ministry and the two institutions now have some of their
activities computerized, and the system are being run by their own personnel
trained under the project.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1        The legal agreements ( a loan and two project agreements) were
well prepared. They were particularly effective in clearly defining
responsibilities of the key implementing agencies in a manner that was
monitorable. The staff appraisal report adequately defined the needs of the
sector and prescribed a project framework that had specific institutional and
policy objectives in meeting those needs.
12.2        Although large volumes of data were collected and maintained in
the course of this project, they generally contained levels of inconsistency
which is not insignificant. For example, year to year comparisons of financial
statements of BTN or Perumnas were made difficult as data for same years
differed; some records relating to specific mortgage characteristics ( e.g.
house production figures and total units sold to groups of households) did not
always tally. This is largely due to the fact that during this period the



- 10 -
accounting and other information management systems of BTN and Perumnas were
being changed as part of the project.
12.3        An important lesson to be learned about the use of data on
housing, is that, such information should be interpreted with caution. A
reconciliation of such data from various sources(BTN, BPS, Perumnas, etc)
would be advisable for establishing a reasonable degree of accuracy especially
if important decisions hinge on them. The information systems of BTN and
Perumnas are still evolving, and the rapid developments in computer technology
has caused these institutions to switch from one system to another.
13.   Main Findings and Lessons Leazned
13.1        Through this project, the government has been successful in
expanding the supply of low-cost housing and improved the targeting of
subsidies to low- and middle-income households. However, in spite of this
respectable achievement, the government sponsored supply of low-cost housing
supported by the project remains a fraction of the demand for affordable
housing most of which is by a large number of individual builders and
households who did not benefit from the project. Any future efforts to
improve the quality and supply of affordable housing for the poor will have to
be directed towards policy and institutional mechanisms that support the
informal housing especially by providing better access to credit for
constructing or improving housing to individuals and households. MOH has
recently completed a National Housing Policy and strategy document with
detailed action plans. The implementation of the policy actions and
institutional measures proposed in this document will help to remove obstacles
to development of the housing finance in particular and deepening of the
financial sector as a whole.
13.2        The government decision to permit private developers to build low-
cost housing (below 36M2) and authorize state commercial banks to provide
construction finance to the same was primarily responsible for the rapid
emergence of private developers as the principal supplier of low-cost housing
eligible for subsidized mortgage financing from BTN. The emergence of private
developers which provided alternative housing to Perumnas' has effectively
reversed the dominant role of Perumnas. An important lesson here is that
removal of subsidized programs and regulatory obstacles to involvement of the
private sector in the housing sector must be part of the solution for
increasing supply of affordable housing.
13.3        BTN's efforts in mobilizing non-government resources have been
limited to savings mobilization and increased collection of mortgage arrears
partly because of its institutional weakness and partly because the market for
mortgage finance is still undeveloped. The efforts made to devise other
financial instruments such as mortgage-backed bonds have achieved only a token
success. It should be noted that the development of new mortgage instruments
is dependent to a large extent on the depth of the Indonesia financial
sector - something the project could not control or influence alone. The
problem with resource mobilization goes beyond the institutional constraints
of BTN, and encompass the whole question of the market for long-term
financing. The lesson coming from this is that mobilization of non-government
funds for long-term financing such as housing loans has proved to be difficult
for BTN, and the potential still remains uncertain,as long as few investors
are willing to buy issues of long term debt instruments from BTN, and the
laws regarding asset foreclosures are perceived to be weak by lenders.
13.4        The role of the government in formulating sector policies which
expanded the role of the private sector has been a central factor in achieving
the objectives of the project and set a stage for removing supply constraints
and redirecting government subsidies to those who need them. An implied



- 11 -
lesson here is that the government could make a stronger contribution to the
supply of housing for low income households by playing its role as an enabler
of the private sector (including the informal housing sector) through
regulatory and policy measures that create or promote business opportunities
than be a direct provider of housing as has been in recent past.



12
PART II: BORROWER'S EVALUATION
(Prepared Separately)



13
TABLE OF CONTENTS
FOREWARD
CHAPTER I        INTRODUCTION                                           1
1. General                                            1
2. Policy                                             1
3. Objectives                                         2
CHAPTER II       LOAN ALLOCATION                                        3
CHAPTER llI    ACTIVITIES FINANCED THROUGH                              5
THE HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
A. Housing Research and Evaluation by the Office      5
of The State Minister For Housing
1. Fund Allocation                                5
2. Allocation Plan                                5
3. Allocation Realization                         6
4. Conclusion                                    10
B. Activities Perforned by PT. Bank                  12
Tkbungan Negara (Persero)
1. Allocation of Funds                           12
2. Allocation Plan                               13
3. Allocation Realization                        14
4. Conclusion                                    15
C. Activities Perforned by Perum Perumnas            16
1. Allocation of Funds                           16
2. Allocation plan                               17
3. Allocation Realization                        18
4. Conclusion                                    21



14
ENCLOSURE
ENCLOSURE A
I. TASK ORDER                                               1
Task Order No.1                                          1
Task Order No.2                                          2
Thsk Order No.3                                          4
Task Order No.4                                          5
Thsk Order No.5                                          9
Ihsk Order No.6                                         12
Task Order No.7                                         13
Thsk Order No.8                                         15
MTsk Order No.9                                         17
Thsk Order No. 10                                       19
T1sk Order No. 11                                       20
thsk Order No. 12                                       22
II. Housing Policy Studies Project                         24
TABLE IA.   Cooperation Agreement                          27
The Office State Minister for Housing
with The Flagler Management Group and
Lembaga Management, Faculty of
Economics University of Indonesia in
the framework of implementing
BRD Loan HSL I No.2725-IND.
TABLE 2A.   Cooperation Agreement                          29
The Office of State Minister for Housing
with The Urban Institute and Hasfarm Dian
Consultant in the framework of implementing
IBRD Loan HSL I No.2725-IND.
TABLE 3A.   Total IBRD Loan No.2725 IND (HSL I)            30
for the Office of The State Minister
for Housing.



15
ENCLOSURE B
Thble MB.    KPR Sources of Fund                           1
Thble 2B.    Allocation of Loan World Bank IBRD           5
Loan 2725-IND
'ible 3B.    [BRD Housing Sector Loan No.2725-IND         6
list of consultant services
Table 4B.    Conditional status of Aide Memorie           9



16
ENCLOSURE C:
Perum Perumnas Institutional Action Program                  I



17
CHAPTER I
INTRODUCTION
1. General
The long term target of the housing finance sector is to make available sufficient
funds for procurement of housing at prices affordable by the society at large
particularly by the lower income groups, in mie form of various housing credits,
both through banks and non-bank financial institutions as well as through the
people own housing financing activities.
It is expected to be materialized through
a. The creation of a financing system in the housing and settlements sector for
which shall mobilize funds from various sources through compulsory and
voluntary contribution and shall operate within the existing market mechanism.
b. The creation of accessibility to non formal financing sources to increase in
stages the fund sources for formal financing in the housing and settlements
sector.
It should be noted that the currently operating housing and settlements financing
system based on the KPR-BTN pattern which relies subsidized on interest rates is
inadequate and ineffective. It operate in a limited are a isolated from the effect of
real market from which under the system very weak.
As a consequence, the continuing demand for low cost and long term funding for
housing is putting more and more on government also to increase the budget for
housing every year.
In order to increase low cost and long term funds for housing, it is therefore
necessary for the nation to strive fund derive form domestic sources as well as
fund derive from foreign sources.
2. Policy
a. To support the policy of housing procurement through Kredit Pemilikan Rumah
(KPR) Bank Tabungan Negara program, in 1986 the Government obtained a loan
from The World Bank amounting to USS 275 million. For this loan an agreement
was reached between Government of Indonesia and International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) on June 26, 1986 (HSL I No.2725-IND.)



18
The World Bank loan augmented the KPR-BTN fund sources, together with other
fund sources provided by the Government equity program (PMP), Liquidity Credit
of Bank Indonesia (KLBI) and funds collected by BTN itself.
b. The success of the program motivated the Government to expand and develop
the extension of KPR to Non Bank Financial Institutions and another Bank
besides BTN. It has also encouraged the Government to extend new kinds of
credits besides through the KPR  to fill the demand of the society at large for
financing housing procurement.
The overall development effort towards the materialization of the long term
policy target in housing finance is market oriented.
3. Objectives
The Housing Sector loan through IBRD No.2725-IND is intended
a. To expand the supply of housing finance for low and middle income households;
b. To increase Government estimation in general and to direct available subsidies to
the lowest income group:
c. To decrease the dependence of the housing finance sector from Government and
introduce new instruments for fund mobilization;
d. To motivate the production of modest housing by the private sector and the
Government;
e. To create job opportunities;
f. To strenothen BTN and Perum Perumnas as major housing institution for
financing and production; and
g. To assist the Office of the State Minister for Housing in developing and
monitoring the policies and programs of the housing sector.



19
CHAPTER II
LOAN ALLOCATION
The whole scope of this loan includes
Part A :Financing for the development of housing projects through the provision of
mortgage loan to borrowers with o.etails as follows
- Sub loan type A $ 62,000,000.-
B $ 141,000,000.-
C $ 60,000,000.-
$ 263,000,000.-
- Equipment     $    750,000.-
$ 263,750,000.-
Part B: Strengthen BTN's performance and management through technical support
and acquisition of related equipment with an amount of $ 2,800,000.
Part C: Strengthen Perumnas's performance and management through technical
support and acquisition of related equipment with an amount of $ 570,000.
Part D:
1. Carry out an urban housing market study on demand patterns and supply
constraints.
2. Carry out a post-construction evaluation study of low cost housing
projects.
3. Carry out a study on land titling problems in the housing sector.
4. Assist the Office of the State Minister for Housing to do a housing policy
analysis with technical support and acquisition of related equipment
amounting to $ 1,200,000.
Part E: Unallocated portion $   6,680,000
Total loan       $ 275,000,000
Note:
With the rupiah devaluation in 1986, in order to decrease the possibility of a
commitment fee burden Government of Indonesia returned the amount of US$ 75
million to IBRD so that the total available loan amounted for only US$ 200 million.



20
Based on the above-mentioned fund allocation, three types of activities were
supported by the loan:
a. Housing research and evaluation by the Office of the State Minister for
Housing.
b. Housing financing by the Bank Tabungan Negara.
c. Housing production by Perum Perumnas.



21
CHAPTER III
ACTIVITIES FINANCED THROUGH THE HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
A. Housing research and evaluation by the Office Of The State Minister for
Housing
1. Fund Allocation
According to the Loan Agreement, the Office of the State Minister for Housing
shall undertake the activities mentioned in Part D, as follows
1.1. Carry out an urban housing market study focussing on demand patterns and
supply constraints.
1.2. Carry out a post-construction evaluation study of low cost housing projects.
1.3. Carry out a study on land titling problems in the housing sector.
1.4. Assist the Office of the State Minister for Housing carry out a housing policy
analysis through technical support and acquisition of related equipment.
The allocated fund amounted to US$ 1,450,000.-
2. Allocation Plan
In line with the above described fund allocation scheme, the Office of the State
Minister for Housing prepared the following programs
Package A
Package A contain consultancy services to support policy research and related
studies. It implementation is based on Task Orders.
Package B
This is a research package to study the behaviour of the urban housing market in
Indonesia, specifically on: housing quality and affordability in urban housing,
choices and opportunities, low income rental housing and informal housing finance.
Package C
This Package is for post-occupancy evaluation studies of BTN housing, with
particular referend to targetting effectiveness in the BTN KPR program and
evaluation in production and maintenance of BTN-financed housing.



22
Package D
This package is for studies on land titling for BTN housing with particular reference
to land acquisition and titling for BTN housing; A case study of Jawa Barat,
1983/1984 - 1988/1989 and the role of the hipotik as security for housing
development.
Package E
Package E support activities for consultancy services at the Office of The State
Minister for Housing.
Activities in this Package cover
a. Assistance to the Ministry in the analysis of policy issues related to financing
and composition of the housing program;
b. Monitoring and evaluation of the progress of the Repelita IV housing program
vis-a-vis its program criteria and targets;
c. Detailed preparation of Repelita V housing program; and
d. Knowledge transfers on the methodology of quantitative and qualitative analysis
of housing issues and problems.
3. Allocation Realization
Parallel to the above mentioned purposes and aims of the shelter sector which are
expected to be realized through Technical Assistance packages, in fiscal year
1987/1988 the Office of The State Minister for Housing signed a Cooperation
Agreement with several institution to conduct the studies. Each of these studies
were implemented as follow
3.1. Package A
The Office of the State Minister for Housing in cooperation with the Management
Institute of the Economic Faculty of the University of Indonesia and The Flagler
Management Group (USA) shall carried out the studies in Package A and
Package E.
Package A refer to consultancy services to support policy research and related
studies.
This package was implemented based on Task Orders prepared for the
Management Institute of the Economic Faculty, University of Indonesia.



23
The Task Order were as follow
Task Order 1
Evaluation of the role and efficiency of Government  rules  and  regulations
concerning construction standards and environmental infrastructure of low cost
housing.
Task Order 2
Indentification of potential problem areas in the effort to enhance the role of private
developers in the development of low cost housing.
Task Order 3
EDP procurement (Phase I) and related training program for technicians/operators
and Senior Staff of the Office of the State Minister for Housing.
Task Order 4
Conduct a study to identify measure to mobilize small scale savings for housing.
Task Order 5
Comparative evaluation and analysis of existing residential planning and design
standards in urban areas.
Task Order 6
Design and test a project appraisal software program for use by Bank Tabungan
N4egara.
Task Order 7
Conduct a study on the potential role of regional Development Banks and
Commercial Banks in housing finance.
37sk Order 8
-Ovise the planning and design standards for BTN-financed housing.



24
Task Order 9
Conduct a review and analysis of potential sources of funds to establish a general
housing fund in Indonesia.
Task Order 10
Conduct an in-depth study to develop an action plan and implementation program
to strengthen and expand the housing finance system in Indonesia.
Task Order 1 1
Conduct an enviromental impact assessment study in preparation for the Second
IBRD Housing Sector Loan.
Task Order 12
Design, Program and Test an Automated Information System and data base for the
Office of the State Minister for Housing.
3.2. Package B, C and D.
The Office of the State Minister for Housing iin cooperation with the
Association of PT. Hasfarm Dian Consultant and The Urban Institute conducted
studies refered to in Packages B, C and D. The studies conducted based on the
term of reference per package were as follow
Package B
Study on the urban housing market behaviour in Indonesia, particularly on housing
quality and affordability in urban housing, choices and opportunities for low
income rental housing and informal housing finance.
Package C
Post-occupancy evaluation of BTN housing, particularly to review the effectiveness
of the BTN-KPR Program and an evaluation of the production and maintenance of
BTN financed housing.



25
Package D
Study on land titling, specifically land acquisition and titling of BTN housing with
Jawa Barat as case study for the period 1983/1984 -1988/1989 and the role of
the Hipotik as security for housing development.
Aside from the above mentioned studies in Packages A and E several other studies
were also conducted as supplementary support form have also been conducted a
post Pakages B, C and D. These supplementary studies were done by Association
of PT. Hasfarm Dian Consultant and The Urban Institute.
The supplementary studies consisted of:
1). A framework for evaluating alternative housing sector strategies.
2). Understanding informal housing finance.
3). Rental housing.
4). Creation and documentation of housing survey data files.
5). Land acquisition for informal housing.
Package E
The Office of the State Minister for Housing in cooperation with the Flagler
Management Group conducted the following several activities based on the term
of reference of Package E
These activities included:
1). Assistance to the Ministry in the analysis of policy issues related to financing
and composition of the housing program;
2). Monitoring and evaluation of the progress of the Repelita IV housing program
vis-a-vis its adherence to program criteria and targets;
3). Preparation of a detailed Repelita V housing program; and
4). Provide knowledge transfers on the methodology of quantitative and qualitative
analysis of housing issues and problems.



26
4.3. The greater benefit that shall be derived from the technical assistance from
World Bank for the Office of the State Minister for Housing is the stimulant it
has given towards improving productivity in the housing sector and to drive
for sectoral reform.
This implies that the demand for housing financing assistance will continue to
rise and consequently that the Office of the State Minister for Housing will
still need external assistance, especially from the World Bank.
B.  Activities Performed by PT. Bank Tabungan Negara (Persero)
1.  Allocation of funds
BTN as a State Owned Bank has a dual mission, that is, as a government financing
institution which  stimulates  national development and at the same time it
operates as a regular commercial bank. As a development agent, BTN has played
the role of a national development in pioneer whose aim is to contribute towards
the development of a prosperous but just society where material wealth is more
or less evently distributed based on the spiritual principal of the Pancasila and the
Constitution (UUD) 1945. Its role as development agent is defined in its mandates
from the Government through a Letter Instruction from the Finance Minister No. B
49/MK/IVI/11974 dated January 29, 1974 appointing BTN as financing coordinator
for public housing construction projects.
Through BTN as the extention arm of the Government in housing financing, in
1976/1977 the first 17 units were financed with KPR amounting to a total of
Rp.37,500,000.-,  of  which  Rp.7,500,000.-    was  funded  by  BTN  and
Rp.30,000,000. came from KLBI. Funding support for housing procurement
increased  annually  beginning    1976/1977  with  the  initial  amount of
Rp.37,500,000,- becoming Rp.13,027,060,000.- by year 1991/1992. Parallel to
the increasing funding support, the production of housing units also increased
trom an initial of 17 units to 51,899 units in 1991/1992 (see Table lB enclosure B).
Due to a limited source of inexpensive funds source yet being confronted with an
increasing housing demand, in 1978/1979 Government augmented BTN funds for
housing through PMP (Government equity) which came in the form of subsidies for
the KPR. (Refer to table 11.B, enclosure B). However, since the demand for the fund
is always increasing, there is a need for BTN to continually look for new fund
sources for housing financing.



27
b. Develop a financing scheme to remedy the present mismatching of shor
term funds for long term housing financing, by mobilizing potential lonc
term funds from insurance companies, pension funds, and makinc
available housing backed securities.
It is expected that with these various efforts the housing financing systerr
will no longer be isolated from real market forces and the national financia
system.
c. - Upgrade the capabilities of the staff of the Office of the State Ministe
for Housing in utilizing computers as well as
- Enlarge the function of the computers from that of being utilized mainlI
as a word processor to a tool for decision making with the use of the
Management Information System.
d. Expansion of the number of executing bank serving as facilities for
housing ownership through mortgage loan (KPR) aside from Bank
Tabungan Negara to include 5 Regional Development Banks and 6 private
banks.
e. Sustain the building up of funds for housing acquisition by civil servant
through a civil servant compulsory savings scheme which has beer
recently implemented.
f. Consideration of environmental impact analysis in formulating the policies
and programs of the housing and settlements construction subsector.
4.2. After completion of the cooperation agreement between the Office of the
State Minister for Housing and the Urban Institute in cooperation with
PT. Hasfarm Dian Consultant, the Office of the State Minister for Housing has
been able to formulate short, medium and long-term policies for housing and
settlements, all of which constitute the National Policy and Strategy for
Housing.
Formulation of provincial strategies to test and strengthen the National
Housing Policy and Strategy has started in several Regencies (Sub Province),
notably in the municipalities of Surakarta, Semarang for Central Java and in
Bandung and Bekasi for West Java with technical assistance from the
Government of Finland and UNDP.



28
Hence, in 1986/1987, BTN through the Government of the Republic of Indonesia
sought assistance from the World Bank to improve its capacity and capability for
housing financing.
Subsequently through a Loan Agreement (No.2725-IND) the Government of the
Republic of Indonesia obtained a loan amounting to US$ 275,000,000, out of
which a sum of US$ 272,440,000.- has been allocated for BTN and the rest for
Perum Perumnas and the Office of the State Minister for Housing. The loan
repayment period given by the World Bank to BTN which should be sufficient to
attain the objective for which the loan was granted to the Government is 20 years
with a grace period of 5 years.
2.  Allocation Plan
Funds released from the loan obtained from the World Bank under Loan Agreement
No.2725-IND is a total amount of US$ 272,440,000. The amount of US $
263,000,000 has been allocated to the housing sector, the amount of US $
2,800,000 for  consultancy services. Hence, from  the total loan of US $
275,000,000  the sum of US$ 6,680,000 has not yet been allocated on released
(Table 2.B, enclosure B).
Based on the above-cited computation of actual loan releases and allocation, there
is a need to make a revision on the total loan amount as well as on the fund
allocation itself. For allocation 1, the total loan amount of  US$ 272,440,000
should be reduced to US$ 197,440,000, the sum of US$ 75,000,000.- having
been cancelled.
The above mentioned total loan of US$ 197,440,000 has been  planned for
utilization in the  housing sector as follows : US$ 188,000,000 for finance
assistance and US$ 2,800,000 for consultancy services. With allocation 1, it is
found that an amount of US$ 6,680,000 has not been allocated nor released. (see
Table 2.B enclosure B).
Inasmuch as there is still an unallocated amount of US$ 6,680,000. Fund II has
been reallocated as follow: the total fund for housing sector remains the same, at
US$ 188,000,000 but for the amount for consultancy services has been increased
from US$ 2,800 000 to US$ 3,589,000 an increase of US$ 789,000.
On top of that, there is a fund allocation of US$ 5,851,000 from the amount for
BTN to be transfered to the Office of State Minister for Housing. Therefore,



29
the ceiling of the loan for BTN which is originally US$ 197,440,000 in allocation I
has become US$ 191,589,000 in allocation 11 (see Table 2.B, enclosure B).
However, in the utilization plan of the loan fund there is a need to reallocate an
additional amount of US$ 55,000 to BTN, hence total BTN loan shall be increased
from USS 191,589,000 in allocation 11 to US$ 193,261,000 in allocation Ill. The
amount of US$ 55,000 came from the increase of the funds for the housing
sector. In addition the amount for consultancy services has been increased to US$
1,617,000. Therefore, the total loan received from the World Bank actually
amounted to US$ 200,000,000, allocated as follow: USS 193,261,000 for BTN,
US$ 729,000 for Perum Perumnas and US$ 5,820,000 for tne Office of the State
Minister for Housing. From the total amount allocated to BTN the amount to be
used for housing financing is USS 188,055,000 and USS 5,206,000 for
consultancy services. In utilizing the fund for housing financing, BTN shall utilize
the funds for financing KPR housing Package A which will amount to USS
46,395,000, for KPR Package B US$ 101,270,000 and for KPR Package C US$
40,390,000 (see Table 3B, enclosure B).
3.  Allocation Realization
The loan fund obtained was not utilized completely. Fund utilization as planned for
housing sector was for an amount of US$ 1 88,055,000. Actual fund utilization is
only USS 188,051,180.99. There is still a remaining  balance of US$ 3,819.01
(see Table 2B). The utilization of the fund by BTN was done in 3 (three) years,
from 1986/1987 until 1988/1989 (see Table 1.B, enclosure B).
From Table 1 B it can be seen that total fund utilization increased by 132.6% during
tihe  first two  year,  i.e. from   Rp.34,168,833,000,-  in  1986/1987  to
Rp.79,485,002,000,- in 1987/1988 and by 86.7% in 1988/1989 during which
time fund utilization had reached a total of Rp. 148,421,173,610,-
The funds originally planned for consultancy services amounted to US$ 5,206,000.
However, by the end of 1992 the amount used for the purpose was only US$
2,456,816.91, which means that there is still a balance of US$ 2,748,183.09
(see Table 2B). The amount for consultancy services granted by the World Bank to
BTN is principally to be used for improving the management of Bank Tabungan
Negara, some for consultant services on implementation of new system, man
power planning and management advisory service, computer installation,
Implementation and development system etc. as shown in Table 3 B, enclosure B.



30
The utilization of funds for consultancy services was made for several purposes
for the developement of a management information system (EDP Plan), financial
management (Accounting System), human resource management (manpower plan),
auditing system and organization, all of which were done by BTN to improve its
operation according to the request of World Bank.
The utilization of funds for housing financing as well as for consultancy services
was always monitored by The World Bank by regularly reviewing up BTN activities
and making direct visits to BTN. After each monitoring visit, the World Bank
prepared an Aide Memoire which generally contained matters which should be done
by BTN.
As herein illustrated, there is a  need for  BTN to have an EDP Plan to be
implemented in 3 years. The plan describes the direction and strategy of BTN
computerization to improve its information system as well as for BTN to have a
Corporate Plan to also guide its business operations.
For a cleaner picture of all matters related to the World Bank Aide Memoire, please
refer to Table 4.B (enclosure B), which shows the description, fixed time target,
and status or development already achieved until December 1992.
4.  Conclusion
From the above explanation, it can be concluded that the World Bank loan allocated
to BTN has been fully utilized in accordance with the purpose mentioned in Loan
Agreement No. 2725-IND. The loan package was obtained to achieve two
important major objectives of BTN. These are:
4.1. Extend more financing assistance for housing acquisition to lower income
groups. To pursue this objective, BTN has allocated 97.3% of the World Bank
loan amounting to US$ 193,261,000 or US$ 188,051,180 for the housing
sector. From Table 1.B (enclosure B), it can be concluded that the World Bank
loan effectively supported BTN in financing public housing because during the
last 3 (three) years the fund has been able to give a share of 28.9% annually
where previously BTN was contributing only 11.68% annually.
Although the World Bank share during the last 3 (three) years was always the
same annually at 28.9%  against the  total value, however, the rupiah



31
value/equivalent increased from Rp. 34,168,833,000.- in 1986/1987 to Rp.
148,421,173,610.- in 1988/1989 or an increased of Rp. 114,252,340,610,-.
Converted into units, the rupiah value assisted the construction of 7,777 units
in 1986/1987, 17,681 units in 1987/1988 and 32,984 units in 1988/1989
which is a total of 58,442 housing units over a period of three years or an
annual average of 19,480 units.
4.2. The World Bank loan for consultancy services has been utilized by BTN to
improve the efficiency of its banking and management services. Matters
proposed by the Wcrld Bank for consultancy services, included among others,
develop and maintain an EDP Plan which shall make BTN possess not only
the strategy for computerization 3 (three) years in advanced of its full
development, but also possess a good computer-based Management In-
formation System. As a result of  computerization activities, entries for
savings and the KPR are now computerized in all BTN Branch Offices. The
management of arrears has like wise improved with the instalation of a better
system for extension of credit and credit repayment.
The other proposal made by The World Bank and already applied by BTN was
the need to review BTN's organization to identify its strengths and
weaknesses determine the steps and strategies to be taken to address
problems and needs to prepare a corporate plan to guide its long term
banking operations.
Finally, on the whole, the World Bank loan obtained through Loan Agreement
No.2725-IND has been greatly assisting BTN in financing public housing as
well as improving its banking system and operations.
These achievements are deemed significant by the Government considering
the tremendous changes that had to be done by BTN to put new policies and
systems and procedures in place. It is hoped that the inability of BTN to fulfill
the other condition set by the World Bank in the Aide Memoire would not
overshadow the significant achievements made.
C.  Activities Performed by Perum Perumnas
1.  Allocation Of Funds
According to Project Agreement No.2725-IND for the housing sector loan between
IBRD and Perum Perumnas which is a part of Loan Agreement No. 2725-IND
between IBRD and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia, it is agreed that
Perum Perumnas will implement an Institutional Action Program. For this purpose



32
IBRD extended a loan without interest to Perum Perumnas for technical assistance
and procuremens of equipment, especially computers.
The Loan Agreement between IBRD and the Government of the Republic of
Indonesia for a Housing Sector Loan of US$ 275,000,000.- was partly conveyed to
Perum Perumnas based on a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Ministry of
Finance and Perum Perumnas for an amount of US$ 920,000.- which will be
utilized for:
1.1. Technical assistance amounting to   US$ 570,000.-
1.2. Procurement of computers amounting to US$ 350,000.-
2.  Allocation Plan
2.1. Technical Assistance
a.  Advisory services for manpower planning
Objective      : To develop a detailed manpower plan
Expenditure plan : US$ 72,000.
b.  Advisory services for management and finance
Objective      : To advice Perum  Perumnas Board on overall policy,
management, planning and finance.
Expenditure plan: US$ 288,000.-
C.  Advisory services for a project monitoring system
Objective      : To design and implement a Project Monitoring System.
Expenditure plan : US$ 144,000.-
d.  Advisory services for computerization
Objective      : To   determine   Perum    Perumnas's   needs   for
computerization, including training
Expenditure plan: US$ 72,000.-
Total for 2.1. is US$ 576,000,- (note : amount is bigger by US$ 6,000.- compared
with the amount in the Project Agreement which is US$ 570,000.-).
2.2. Equipment Acquisition
Objective      : To purchase  a complete set of computers for the Head
Office and Branches.
Expenditure plan: US$ 350,000.-



33
3.  Allocation Realization
3.1. Technical assistance
a.  Manpower planning study
Objective        To develop  a manpower plan  with  personnel and
compensation policies which will enable Perum Perumnas
to attract, retain and motivate the best available talent,
consistent with its requirements over Pelita IV and V
periods.
b.  Management advisory services
Objective        To assist the Perum Perumnas Board of Directors during
the period of significant changes develop a management
system that is responsive to the external environment and
considerate of its internal institutional setting.
C.  Quality control in project design and implementation, specifically, development
of a monitoring system and the establishment of a quality surveying/
estimating/ costing unit.
Objectives       - To evaluate the present system of monitoring, provide
standards against which performance can be measured,
and assist in the establishment of a filing and
documentation system for contract documents.
- Training of staff for a quantity surveying, estimating and
costing unit.
d.  Design and implementation of an Electronic Data Processing (EDP) system
Objectives       - To assist in designing, developing and implementing a
comprehensive EDP plan tailored to Perum Perumnas
needs
- to develop a conceptual systems design, which shall be
used for training of staff on computerization in selected
key areas.
Total cost for 3.1. up to a-d. is an amount of US$ 334,360,- and Rp.
259,276, 500.-.



34
Even with the completion of these abovementioned consultancy services
tasks, the services of the EDP consultant shall have to be extended up to the
time when the EDP system shall have been installed, tested and fully
operational.
In addition, the following consultants are proposed to be employed:
- Land Economist
- Lawyer/Planner
- Planning, code PC and detail Modeling Trainer
- Management Consultant/Coordinator.
e.  Land Economist
Objectives     : - To identify and analyse Perum Perumnas present market
and land purchase strategies;
- To train and assist Perum Perumnas on market analysis;
and
- To do an economic and financial analysis of present
Perum Perumnas operations in land acquisition and land
banking.
f.  EDP Advisor
Objectives     : - To  assist  in  the  continued  development of a
computerized MIS on marketing and sales analysis, land
acquisition and titling, budget control and project
budgeting, cash flow and land information.
- To provide implementation assistance to the various
branches as in the use of the module.
- To install the program for determining quantities and
costings and train operators.
- To coordinate the use of mini computers.
9.  Lawyer/Planner/Management Advisor
Objectives     : - To assist the land economist in determinating the data
necessary for land and housing market assessments.
- To examine present land acquisition strategies and
methods of financing, and prepare alternative methods
of land procurement.
- To increase operational efficiency.



35
- To assist the Board in the introduction of improve(
planning methods, the development of alternativE
standards and planning criteria which shall accrue to the
benefit of lower income groups.
- To assits in training Perum Perumnas staff in land anc
housing market assessment.
h.  The Planning, Code PC Application Advisor
Objectives       - To ensure that Perum  Perumnas Planners are well
versed and skilled in the use of the site selection model.
- To ensure that planners are conversant with the
affordability and code PC models.
- To ensure that Perum Perumnas staff are able to
develop site plans, integrating the modules they have
designed using code PC.
- To improve the planning process with the use of
computer generated options to optimize affordability,
profitability and site plan production.
i.  Management Consultant/Coordinator
Objectives       - To assist the Board in coordinating the work of all the
consultants.
- To develop a modus operandi for all consultants.
- To advise the Board on   counterpart activities for
training and house and land market assesments.
Total values of the addendum contracts are US$ 132,097 and Rp.
181,847,000.- so that the total value of the technical assistance contract is
US$ 466,457.- and Rp. 441,123,500.00- or a total of US$ 728,089.07
3.2. Acquisition of equipment and training
Already purchased:
- 1 (one) unit hardware and software mini computer "Data General" brand with 8
(eight) terminals and 1 (one) unit printer.
- 7 (seven) units PC-IBM Compatible PC/XT "Omedata" brand complete with color
monitor.
7 (seven) units PC-IBM  Compatible PC/AT "Omedata" brand complete with
monochrome monitor.



36
Total value Rp. 489,824,650,000.-
Reimbursement 65% = Rp. 318,386,000.- eq. US$ 189,162.43.
Charge to Perum Perumnas 35% = Rp. 171,438,650.-
Training already undertaken:
Accountancy (General Ledger Module, Account Payable Module, Account
Receivable Module), Land Information System, Sales Information System,
Inventory Management Module.
These modules which have been implemented at the Head Office included
Corporate Budgeting System and Project Budgeting System.
3.3. Loan utilization is US$ 728,089.07 + US$ 189,162.43 or a total of US$
917,251.50 (99.7%) of the loan allocating of US$ 920,000. Loan balance is
US$ 2,748.50.
3.4. Details of the implementation of the Institutional Action Program are
contained in enclosure C.
4.  Conclusion
4.1. Technical Assistance
As a result of the extension of advisory services for manpower planning, the
following have been undertaken:
*.  Employee data collection has been completed and incorporated in the data
base.
th  Job analysis has been included in the framework to determine the total
'' number of employees required.
C. A compensation system for the employees based on merit system has been
*.  developed and implemented.
4.  Staff training has been undertaken.
v   During Pelita V no recruitment has been made.
4J. Management Advisory Services
To stress the importance of accurate data supply on a regular basis, the
Management Information System Section has been raised to the level of a
,.Management Information System Division.



37
b.  To improve efficiency, the company's administration and management system
has changed from a centralized system at the Head Office to a decentralized
system where the Branch officer share administration and management
responsibilities, except for project planning which shall remains centralized.
4.3. Design and Implementation of Project Monitoring System and the
establishment of a Quantity Surveying/Estimating/Costing Unit
With the completion of the consultancy services for item 4.3, the following have
been accomplished:
a.  Set-up a laboratory for soil test.
b.  Training on the usage of the soil test equipment.
4.4. Design and Implementation of an electronic data Processing (EDP) System
With the completion of consultancy services for item 4.4, the following have been
accomplished:
a.  Production  of softwares for processing financial reports, land information,
sales information and management inventory module.
b.  Computer training on accountancy (General Ledger Module, Account Payable
Module, Account Receivable Module), Land Information System, Sales
Information System, Management Inventory Module, Corporate Budgeting
System and Project Budgeting System.
These modules have been completed and tested at the Head Office.
4.5. Output of the Land Economist
a.  Completed a system for market analysis for land releasing and marketing.
b.  Completed the training on market analysis for marketing staff.
4.6. Output of EDP Consultancy Services
Computerization of all activities at the Head Office and its Branches have been
completed.



38
4.7. Output of the Lawyer/Planner Management Consultant
a. Code PC training for selection of location, site plan and feasibility study has
been implemented;
b.  Implementation guidelines for selection of location has been prepared and
documented;
c.  The land procurement strategy for Perum Perumnas has been formulated;
d. Rules and regulations for land acquisition and distribution including their
system and procedures have been reviewed; and
e.  Recomendation or alternative proposal for land tenure legitimation have been
submitted.
4.8. Institutional Action Program
By virtue of the Technical Assistance extended by the World Bank, information and
documentation of the activities of Perum Perumnas are now computerized. This will
make it easy for the agency to accomplish all the items or its obligation stated in
the Institutional Action Program. As a whole the agency's efficiency has improved
and it is envisioned that Perum Perumnas will be able to perform better as a
Government functionary for the construction of modest houses for low and middle
income groups without anymore losses and shall grow instead as a healthy earning
company.



39
EN C LO SURE  A



40
Task Order No. I
EVALUATION OF THE ROLE AND EFFICIENCY OF GOVERNMENT
RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING CONSTRUCTION COST,
STANDARD AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE
OF LOW COST HOUSING
Objective:
lb identify and analyze problems resulting from the implementation of regulation and
guidelines, especially those that involve technical standards implementation from Directorate
General of Cipta Karya and BTN, including housing price guidelines for cost estimation and
KPR-BTN price setting.
Study Results:
From analyses made and results obtained, a number of conclusions concerning low-cost
housing development programs in the JABOTABEK area can be made. The most notable is
that government regulations have caused a decline in the rate of participation by private
developers. Most developers do not consider low cost housing programs a worthwhile
investment, and would rather apt to invest in middle-class housing projects.
lb arrest this decline, the government would do well to consider alternative policy strategies.
Among these are:
1.  To eliminate factors that contribute to increasing costs in low cost housing production.
These consist mainly of beaurocratical costs.
2.  To minimize the amount of requirements needed to fulfil the technical standards criteria.
Notable aspects of these are the minimum required plot area and the standards building to
plot rations. Changes made could lower costs for developers.
3. To review again the decree concerning maximum sale price.
A change in policy based on the price standard for 1987/1988 could alter the patterns of
investments by developers towards a more positive path. On the other hand, it could also
increase costs and reduce "affordability" aspects for consumer. An alternative would be
to eliminate altogether the decree,and only implement a policy whereby the government
need only control maximum credit ceiling and down payments needed.
4. In light of the fact that private investments have been very slow, the government could
try to review the targets for housing developments previously set for the Pelita IV.
Although this is not a popular alternative, it will undoubtedly solve short-range problems
now being faced by the government.



41
Task Order No.2
POTENTIAL PROBLEM AREAS IN THE EFFORT TO ENHANCE
TEE ROLE OF PRIVATE DEVELOPERS IN TEE DEVELOPMENT
OF LOW COST HOUSING
Objective:
The objective of this study is to assist the Office of The State Minister for Housing in the
preparation of information required for the formulation of policies concerning the promotion of
the role of private developer in developing low cost houses. Information regarding potential
problems which are constraints in the effort to enhance the role and participation of private
developers in the development of low cost houses are:
1.  Constraints regarding the supply of long terms funds
2.  Constraints present at the main stages of the project (project cycle), i.e. Concerning
a. Land acquisition
b. Project execution
c. Marketing and Selling of Houses.
3.  Constraints from the part of consumers.
In addition, study is also made of regarding the role of the Association of Developers-Real
Estate Indonesia (REI) in helping the gorvernment encourage private developers to build more
low cost houses.
Study Results:
1. Long Term Fund
'lb achieve Pelita IV target according to Decree of the State Minister for Housing
No.IO/KPTS/1987 BTN should provide the fund amounting 32% with estimated interest
of 15%.
For keeping KPR continued by interest 9%, 12% and 15% for house type category T15,
T18, T27, T36, T45, T54 and T70 the participation of BTN fund resource supporter is
required.
Still required the participation of Government capital (PMP), Liquidity Credit of Bank
Indonesia (KLBI) and Worl Bank fund by rate interst 0%  for PMP, 3%  for KLBI and
11% for World Bank.
Tb avoid the delay of KPR Target in 1988 and 1989 it is proposed that BTN should start



42
sounding the resources of long term fund through obligation mechanism. Also should be
sounded the accumulated fund of BUMN's Yayasan Dana Pensiun (Pension Fund
Foundation).
Also need to be sounded investment made by Life Insurance Company, also at the some
sector with those pension fund foundations. Considering the abovementioned matters it is
expected that the possibility of capital participation will be opened.
2.  Land Acquisition
- Location permit/land releasing should be simplified.
- Regulation of Minister for Domestic Affair No.3/1987 should be followed by
implementation guidance.
-Cemetery land retribution should be deposited after all of the houses been sold.
- Cost of land/house certification should be reviewed, also administration cost should be
proper.
3.  Project Implementation
- Determination of building standard should be appropriated with the local condition.
- House selling price should be reviewed periodecally
- Releasing of advance payment, electric contribution, IMB (Building permit) fee and
fee for settlement of certificate which is still kept by BTN should be settled quicker
when developer already completed all of the conditions.
4.  Marketing and Selling of the House
- It is suggested to developer to build modest houses
- It is suggested to sell the house T15, T18 and T21 by maximum selling price (1+1,3)
x estimated price of building
- It is suggested to make the price of land the some for cheap house T15, T18 which
land have the same width with house type T2 1, in order to motivate developer to build
the T15 and T18 type house.
5.  Consumer Perception
- To appeal (Real Estate Indonesia), to actively suggested their members to build the
modest and fulfil the standard house.
6.  REI Role
- REI is expected to play a role as catalisator (now REI is not yet play the fully role)
- REI should be explicit to their members who did not fulfil the condition in
implementing the construction of housing.



43
Task Order No.3
EDP TRAINING PROGRAM FOR OPERATING AND SENIOR STAFF
OF THE OFFICE OF THE STATE MINISTER FOR HOUSING (PHASE I)
Objective:
Tb train EDP skill to operator and senior Staff of The Office of The State Minister for
Housing.
Study Results:
Already perforned the training for the staff of the Office of the State Minister for Housing.



44
Thsk Order No.4
INDONESIA MOBILIZATION OF SMALL SCALE SAVINGS
FOR HOUSING FINANCE
Objective
This study on the mobilization of mainly small scale savings for financing housing ownership
is aimed at obtaining information based on research finding on the existing condition of saving
behavior of low income groups and designing a system of how to increase voluntary saving in
general and particularly voluntary savings for financing housing ownership.
A more general purpose of the study is to fund out how to increase the amount of resources
available for financing housing ownership.
Study Results:
1.  Rural deposits represent less than 20% of total of bank deposits in Indonesia.
Only 5% of the rural population has Thbanas accounts compared to 30% of the urban
population.
2.  Between 15% and 25% of rural savings is held in gold and jewelry.Another 40%  up to
70% in land and other capital goods. Less than 10% of rural savings are invested in
financial assets, this hand of investment is not necessary deposited with a financial
institution.
3.  The rural market is a large, relatively untapped source of household savings mainly  as
short run source of funds.
4.  Factors inhibiting the penetration of the rural market by financial institutions
a. Subsidies
b. Restrictions on branch banking
c. Range of savings opportunities
Subsidies are the greatest constraint to mobilization of rural savings.
Bank Indonesia concessionary credits account for up to 65 % of all rural lending.
Financial isntitutions don't need general local resources to support their lending activities.
It would be unsound to pay 15 % or more for local savings, when the Bank can borrow
from BI at subsidized rates ?
5.  Access to credit is a key motivating factor in mobilizing savings. On the other hand
financial institution have a disincentive to expand their credit programs. Mandatory



45
lending rates do not cover administrative costs and high  costs of making agricultural
loans.
6.  The strengths of community-based finance institution, or CBFIs are as follows.
a. Immediate access to services
b. Low transaction costs
c. Reinvestment in community
d. Direct control by members
e. Linkages with national financial intermediaries
f. Market interest rates
7.  Group members of RSCP of Bukopin the favour the program be cause
a. Regular access to available credit
b. Low transaction costs
c.Direct control by members
d. Reciprocity
Bukopin's objectives in the program are
To introduce a well-structured savings and loan program into rural areas, serving the
lowest income households and strengthen and build a true cooperative system.
8.  BTN accepts Tabanas deposits from  individuals and time deposits from  institutions.
However, total deposits at BTN only represent less than 14% of its total funds.
BTN's TUM-KPR downpayment scheme was introduced to mobilize new savings, but
this program seem relatively unpopular.
There is no real need to ration credit.
BTN never devised a formula for awarding priority.
BTN never enforced minimum savings periods or monthly savings requirements.
BTN is confronted with future reductions in GOI support, and needs to mobilize new
savings.
9.  Operational constraints of the BTN are as follows.
a. Reciprocity
BTN's loans have been made for the purchase of newly constructed units, and not
home improvements.
Most of BTN's Tabanas accounts are transacted at post offices. BTN makes no loans
to the majority of Tabanas savers.



46
b. Efficiency
Savers through BTN's postal outlests must wait for more than two months for a
transaction, making transaction costs more expensive.
Transactions at postal outlest are handled by postal employees, not BTN staff. There is
an obvious mismatch between non-bank empoyees conducting bank operations.
c. Arrears
Approximately 50% of BTN's mortgages, made in the last ten years, are in arrears.
High arrears result in a bad repuation, and increased the perceived risk of banking
with BTN.
d. Outreach
BTN has not effectively utilized its existing system of branch offices, project offices
and postal outlets.
10. Compared to TUM-KPR, Pradana scheme has three advantages namely
a. Unrestricted with drawals
b. Reciprocity
c.No savings target
Areas still needing better planning before national introduction of pradana
a. Establishing loan priority. This kind of priority should encourage longer-term
savings, higher balances over time, and smaller loan to savings rations.
b. Frequency and value of lottery
c. Marketing strategy
d. Pradana and TUM-KPR
e.Number of accounts
f. Transfer of priority
g. Loan criteria-savers must still meet basic lending criteria.
Target market is all prospective home buyers.
11. Reduce gradually interest rate subsidies to rural credit programs and to the financing
housing ownership.
12. Discourage the hope and effort to depend on compulsory savings, and incourage
voluntary savings by offering better services and needed credit.
13. Eliminate regulations which encourage or require market segmentation between housing
finance lenders.



47
14. Expand the range of financial services (savings and loans) offered in rural areas.
15. Strengthen the role of community-based finance institution: such as cooperatives, credit
unions and rotating saving group.
16. Help the BTN in handling its bad debts or arrears problem and to induce the effort of
BTN, it is recommended to GOI to link future GOI support to BTN with improvement in
loan collections.
17. BTN should improve efficiency at its postal outlets through
-  BTN staff upgrading
- Computerization of some offices
- Typed entries in passbooks.
18.   BTN should improve its branching network by
- Upgrade all project offices to cash offices
-  Develop a branch network which emphasizes smaller, more dispersed offices
located near markets and neighborhoods.
-  Whenever possible to introduce mobile units to serve rural areas and sub urban
areas without direct access to financial institutions.
19. Ministry of Housing should work together with Ministry of Cooperative and Bukopin to
widen the scope of services of RSCP to cover the housing sector, especially housing
improvement.
20. Ministry of Housing should work together with the IKPN to induce their members to
participate in saving program and to finance the civil servant housing projects.



48
Thsk Order No.5
A COMPARATIVE EVALUATION AND ANALYSIS OF EXISTING
RESIDENTIAL PLANNING AND DESIGN STANDARDS IN URBAN
AREAS IN JABOTABEK FINAL REPORr
Objective:
1. Th identify the existing condition and pattern of several planning standards of urban
settlement in the Jabotabek area;
2.  To evaluate the criteria of design and planning standards on housing infrastructure and
the provision of community facilities which were determined by the Directorate General
Cipta Karya, Bank Thbungan Negara and Other Government Institutions for residential
area.
3.  To identify the minimum need for the provision of residential urban infrastructure and
estimate of related cost for slum area.
Study Results:
The following conclusions are based upon analysis of aerial photograph results, field
observations and interview with several target respondents in five cases of urban residential
area as follows:
1.  Luxury housing area (in Pluit),
2.  Employees housing complex (Bank Indonesia Pancoran and Bank BNI 1946 Ulujami),
3.  Low cost housing financed by housing ownership Credit (KPR) (Perumnas Depok II and
Jatibening II),
4.  Densely populated residential area (slum area Manggarai, Lagoa Kampong MET, slum
area Koja Selatan and densely populated Menteng Dalam kampong), and
5.  Less densely populated kampong settlement (Petukangan Utara).
Apart from analysis at the neighborhood level, this study also elaborate the land use pattern
and condition of urban residential facilities provisioning in 35 Kelurahan Districts (KDs) taken
as sample in Jabotabek area, which is further grouped into seven types of residential area. The
neighborhood unit is selected by taking into consideration the structural location of housing
construction lay out, homogeneity principle (density, land use and condition of building), and
road network.



49
On the other hand, the selected district sample was taken based on the dualistic aspect of urban
structure, historical condition, land use pattern, building infrastructure population and their
environments.
Based upon the finding of the above mentioned study, the following policy recommendations
are proposed.
1.  Basically the standard design and planning criteria of residential settlement as formulated
by the Directorate General Cipta Karya and Bank Tabungan Negara (BTN) are
inadequate and therefore need revisions. The unclear procedural guideline of the above
mentioned standard criteria has resulted in different implementation. Even in cases where
the implementation has been made well, certain criteria norms are set too high, and
therefore need to be set lower or completely abolished.
2.  The basic assumptions of minimum land requirements for various residential purposes
issued by the Directorate General Cipta Karya guideline need to be revised, while taking
into consideration the recent growth of large cities in Indonesia over the last ten years.
(For instance, the average inhabitant in Jabotabek is already above 5 persons).
The  minimum   space  requirement  should  be  formulated   by  consider
ing several building density target in a dwelling project.
3.  The minimum residential facilities requirements should be formulated more clearly, and
further linked with the minimum land requirement of residential area suggested in
paragraph two.
4.  In order to achieve an optimnum utilization of land use and its relation with the proportion
of land   use as stipulated by the Directorate General Cipta karya, it is further
recommended:
- The building density should be formulated and explicitly explained. Therefore
considerations on the housing type, residential area type and availability of land area
should be re-assessed so that a better and optimum land use pattern could be obtained.
- The building density criteria should be explicity explained covering the minimum and
maximum limit as well as plot size composition.
- The land use proportion criteria (for plot size, social, economic and sports facilities
and road network) should be reformulated so that the relation between minimum and
maximum limits with the plot size composition and the socio- economic facilities could
be understood. A more understandable criteria should be formulated in order to obtain
a better picture on the relation between land use proportion with the minimum and
maximum limit of land use.



50
- The allocation of land for small store and medical doctor service should be abolished
since in reality these land use functions have instead taken place. A residence could
change its function and becomes small shop or physician practice.
- The allocation of land for kindergarten and playground should be better integrated in
their location.
5.   Considering the fact that there are plot sizes of less than 60 square metres while their
building coverage reach nearly 100%, it is advisable to use the maximum building
coverage criteria of 60%. If a prospective owner intend to build or expand the building
coverage nearly reaches its maximum standards, then building expansion could only be
permitted vertically and maximum two storeys. The application of this standard need
strict control by the developer as well as local government.
6. The grouping of plot size according to house type will create grouping of social classes
which could lead to socially unfavorable conditions, Therefore in a neighborhood unit
mixed composition of several types of plot sizes should be arranged with less
differentiated social classes. A formulation of mixed composition of plot sizes should be
used as criteria.
7.  The regulation of 3 % land area for vehicle parking purposes should be reviewed, since in
reality (particularly in densely populated areas) this regulation is not applicable. In
connection with the parking area, it should be considered whether specific parking space
need to be allocated (integrated with the green belt) or along side the roads.
Both alternatives have their pros and cons which need to be studied further.
8.  The allocation of open space (based upon criteria between 0,5 to 2%  of serviced land
area and green belt spread over 15 square meter/population) should be further reviewed
in relation to the allocation, requirement of the society as well as space management
criteria.
9.   The standard cirteria on road network set by the Directorate General Cipta Karya, should
be reviewed and adapted to the simple housing settlement requirements while taking into
consideration the access distance, air circulation, security and cost per unit.
10. The cost implications of revising planning and design standard on affordability of
targetted consumers need to be considered if the old version of BTN guideline will be
revised.



51
Task Order No.6
DESIGN, PROGRAM AND TEST
A PROJECT APPRAISAL SOFTWARE PROGRAM
FOR USE BY BANK TABUNGAN NEGARA
Objective:
'lb    prepare     planning,     program     and      try-out     analysis/evaluation
system for Bank Tabungan Negara.
Study Results:
Consultant has prepared:
1. Flowchart along with time schedule and explanation concerning the procedure of
submission of project proposal, approval and project establishment, KPR application and
warranty period.
2. List of documents and forms which should be submitted together with project proposal.
3. Filling guidance.



52
Thsk Order No.7
STUDY OF POTENTIAL ROLE OF REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS
AND COMMERCIAL BANKS IN HOUSING FINANCE
Objective:
To study how far the role of Regional Development Bank (Bank Pembangunan Daerah) and
other Commercial Bank in fund mobilization for finance the house for middle and lower
income groups. It is expected that (Bank Pembangunan Daerah) and other Commercial Banks
are able to act as housing finance institution.
Study Results:
This Thsk Order 7 leads the Consultant to reach the following conclusions and make the
following recommendations.
1.  The principal commercial banks are suitable media through which to retail KPR to the
target group.
2.  The regional development banks due to the smallness and shortness of their deposit base
cannot make a meaningfull contribution to mobilising funds. They may be left to devote
their proven skills to developing further home improvement loans and engage in
Kampung Improvement Programmes, their diversified branch networks making them well
suited for these roles. Alternatively, if they can access State Bank Deposits they could
on-lend them as KPR.
3.  To participate in the low to middle income groups KPR market the commercial banks
anticipate the following conditions.
- Freedom to set interest rates at market rates
- Equal access to any subsidised funding
- Self determination of credit period
- Self determination of downpayment ratio
- Self determination of debitor's criteria
- Insurance premium included in the payment amount
4.  The most appropriate government assistance to any mortgage sceme apart from the equal
access to centralised funding would be:
- Provision of readily available and clear information on land status and title
- The Government clarifies their intention regarding their master development plan for
various levesl of administration (Kotamadya, Kabupaten, Kecamatan, Kelurahan).
- To clarify, simplify, and facilitate the foreclosure process regarding the enforcement



53
- To implement a definitive legal system
- A Government Insurance sceme insuring banks against default by the the individual
borrowers in the end of the market.
5.  Commercial Banks will venture down market cautiousely initially until they:
5.1. Establish fully functional mortgage departements in their structures with the capacity
to process and manage an enlarged KPR portfolio. Presently, these KPR are
categorised as personal loans.
5.2. Gain experience in the lower ends of the market.
5.3. Because of the high risk factor associated with the low income groups and the high
delinquency experience of the BTN in this area they will venture much later into it.
Being allowed to charge higher processing fees to the low income home owner will
in itself not justify banks placing depositors funds at risk.
6.  It seems reasonable for the authorities to expect the commercial banks to commit
annually 10% of their precious years mobilised funds to KPR underwriting. This would
see an additional Rp 100 billion to Rp 150 billion annually being injected into the KPR
market. They must, of course continue lending to the luxury home sector, This will take
up about Rp 60 billion to Rp 80 billion of lendable funds thus, their total contribution to
the total housing sector will be, in fact, Rp 150 billion to Rp 210 billion initially.
7.  However, if the banks had resource to liquidity through a secondary bond market then
they could commit a larger percentage of their deposits to term lending being in this case
KPR, possibly Rp 200 billion to Rp 300 billion to the low and middle income groups.
8.  Secondly the Consultants  warn if KPR lending banks do not have recourse to a
secondary mortgage bond market through time the banks will become "Asset Bound".
The on-flow effects would be much more detrimental and distortive to establishment of
bond issuance corporation is essential to underpin the market.
9.  If a housing program is being funded substantially from private sector, care should be
taken to ensure the financial market has the capacity to fund the programmes without
diverting a disproportionate amount of monies from other deserving economic sectors.
10. The consultant disqualified indirect subsidy mechanism as being appropriate vehicle to
make KPR affordable at market interest rates.
11. The consultant recommend the cocktail KPR as being the most workable and acceptable
subsidy mechanism to provide affordable KPR and yet allow the banks to contribute their
funds at market rates.



54
Study Results:
An efficient land use pattem must be formed and the regulations on the amount of social
facilities area supplied has to be clarified and made more stringent in the guidance
implementation.
The percentage of land utilization needs has to consider the person/houses density and linked
with the Minister of Intemal Affairs Decree No. O1/KPT/1987 and the Indonesian Normal
Standard. With this in mind, it is hoped that the efficiency of land utilization can be obtained
which in turn will make the price of houses more affordable to the targeted low-income
families.



55
12. It is felt early throught should be given to having the State Banks volunteer 10% of their
deposit to the low to middle income KPR market. These institutions deposit base is
approximately double that of the commercial banks. Furtherrnore, these funds could be
retailed through the BTN, it being reconstituted as a Mortgage Banking Corporation with
no funds mobilization responsibility. State banks would lend to this corporation at 3%
over their deposit rates. The Mortgage Banking Corporation advancing the KPR at 6%
over the deposit rates, similiarely to the commercial banks.
13. The Mortgage Banking Corporation access the central pool of subsidised funds lowering
the BPR/KPR to affordable interest rates.
14. KPR are adjustable rate mortgage with a ceiling and floor for interest rates.
Task Order No.8
THE MODIFIED PLANNING & DESIGN STANDARD
FOR BTN FINANCE HOUSING
Objective:
The need for sufficient houses has given indication to become stronger especially in the urban
area. The problem lies in the unmet needs for housing because of the different income society
groups condition in Indonesia.
From the research conducted on the income level of the public, the result has shown that the
low-income families are still the majority; therefore, even though the government have made
policy in housing sector in the form of KPR-BTN (home-ownership credit), the majority of the
low-income families still cannot afford to own their own houses.
In the effort to make the houses affordable to the low-income families, this study will try to
make some proposals on the modified Planning and Design Standard for BTN Financed
Housing by also entering the KSB measures/rules in the standard.
With these considerations, the research implementation objectives will be
(1). To improve the planning and design standard of BTN financed housing.
(2). To enter the definition and regulations of KSB in the improved standard.



56
Study Results:
An efficient land use pattern must be formed and the regulations on the amount of social
facilities area supplied has to be clarified and made more stringent in the guidance
implementation.
The percentage of land utilization needs has to consider the person/houses density and linked
with the Minister of Internal Affairs Decree No. O1/KPT/1987 and the Indonesian Normal
Standard. With this in mind, it is hoped that the efficiency of land utilization can be obtained
which in turn will make the price of houses more affordable to the targeted low-income
families.



57
Thsk Order No.9
A REVIEW AND ANALYSIS OF POTENTIAL SOURCES
OF FUNDS TO ESTABLISH A GENERAL HOUSING FUND
IN INDONESIA
Objective:
1.  To evaluate the various alternatives of financial sources to fund the public housing
scheme outside Bank- Indonesia's liquidity credit and government capital participation.
2.  Th evaluate the present government policies imposed on the public housing funding.
3.  Tb evaluate the possibilities of establishing a General Housing Fund in Indonesia.
Study Results:
1.  The available potential sources of funds noted in this study are from the following : (a)
Pension fund; (b) Civil servant saving scheme (Taspen); (c) Life Insurance; (d) ASTEK;
(e) ASABRI; (f) Capital Market; (g) Public Savings; (h) Taxes and (i) Lottery.
2.  Two alternatives in developing the housing funding system. The first alternative is to
develop a commercial housing funding without subsidy support. Mobilization of funds is
through the present banking system which, if applied, will cause the housing price to rise
giving way to lower affordability. The second alternative is to design a mobilization
funding apparatus for housing sector with subsidy support. One example of the latter is
through the General Housing Fund.
3.  Two type of subsidies that will be studied carefully to indicate their weaknesses and
strengths are the interest rate and the price subsidies.
The interest subsidy distorts the housing credit market. The artificially low rate of
interest dampens the mobilization of funds for this sector.
The substitution of interest rate subsidy to price subsidy will generate benefits
a. Increases mobilization of funds for housing sector
b. Eliminates distortion in the housing credit market
c. Ease of calculating government subsidy's burden
d. No negative effects on borrowers
e. Predictability of subsidy impact will be more clear



58
4. As an instrument for mobilizing funds, Government Housing Funds (GHF) can be in two
forms:
a.  Funds are gathered from the present long-term fund mobilization institutions (Perum
ASABRI, TASPEN, Perum ASTEK, Pension Fund Foundation and Insurance
Firms).
Government should mandatorily assign those institute to allocate some part of their
funds to the GHF. If this policy is backed up by the certainty of obtaining housing
for those involved, the loss incurred from imbalances between payment and dues
would be offseted.
b.  Funds are gathered from tax levied to employees and firms in the form of payroll
tax. In this form, the employee will not receive back any kind of payments for GHF.
This alternative is not advisable because it is politically unacceptable.



59
lUsk Order No. 10
AN IN-DEPTH STUDY TO DEVELOP AN ACTION PLAN
AND IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM TO STRENGTHEN
AND EXPAND THE HOUSING FINANCE SYSTEM IN INDONESIA
Objective:
lb concentrate the discussion on option which can be followed up by Government in the effort
to widen the nowadays existing housing finance system, the need to mobilized fund from
various resources.
Beside the other alternative out of financing system also in the effort to lower or decrease
capital cost for constructing the houses, among others deregulation effort and simplication of
land releasing process, location permit and registration/recording of land required for housing
construction.
Study Results:
1.  lb performn survey upon several Commercial Bank and Bank Pembangunan Daerah.
2.  To identify the new loan givers in the effort to expand the program.
3. All of the Commercial Bank are fully prepared to paricipate in housing finance.
4.  Subsidy through interest rate create big distortion in the market.
5.  The final interest rate should better be determnined by Bank.
6.  Pool-fund interest rate imposed in adjustable interest rate constitute a more appropriate
instrument than fixed rate mortgage.
7.  Most of the Bank Interviewed already channel KPR.
8.  Bank Pembangunan Daerah not yet serve the KPR but already served the house
restoration credit maximim for Rp. 5 billion, with period 1 upto 5 years.



60
Task Order No. 11
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF
THE SECOND IBRD HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
Objective
The development of the housing finance system has been supported since 1986 by the World
Bank through IBRD Loan No.2725 in which funds were on-lent by the Government to Bank
Tabungan Negara to provide mortgage finance to low and middle income beneficiaries.
Tb support the continued development and expansion of the housing finance system in
Indonesia, the World Bank has agreed in principle to provide further funding in a second
sectoral loan.
As part World Bank internal processing requirements for all new loans an environmental
impact assessment has to be completed prior to loan approval by The World Bank's Board of
Directors.
Study Result:
1.  Micro Level Recommendations
- Human Waste Disposal
- Solid Waste Disposal
- The housing Environment
- Location of Water and Sewage
- Socioeconomic Factors
2.  Macro Level Recommendations
- Health Service Provision
- Air quality
- Human Waste Disposal
- Solid Waste Disposal
- Drainage
3.  Macro Level Recommendations
- Planning and Design in Housing Development
- Housing Project Land Utilization and Spatial Planning
- Design Criteria for Indivual Houses



61
4.  Alternative Approaches and Policies
- Enabling Strategy as a Basic Principle
- Skill in Upgrading
- Rental Housing
- Strategies For Migrants and Inter City Slum Dweller
- Role and Impact of Subsidies
- Mobilization, Deregulation and Reorganization of Resources
5. Level of Treatment: Approximates Cost/Benefits and Impact on Affordability
6.  Issue Related to Provision of urban services
7.  Area Wide Planning and Regional Service Delivery
8.  Set up Database for spatial for Major Urban Areas
9.  Establish Watershed Authorities.



62
Task Order No. 12
INFORMATION AND DATA BASE SYSTEM FOR THE OFFICE
OF THE STATE MINISTER FOR HOUSING
Objective:
In order to better perform its primary function as the Government's principal institution for
formulation and monitoring national housing policy and programs for all income groups and
regions in Indonesia, the Ministry for Housing requires an extensive information system and
data base. In addition, because a comprehensive National Housing Policy and series of action
programs has already been developed by the Ministry and approved by the National Housing
Policy Board (Badan Kebijaksanaan Perumahan Nasional or BKPN), the Ministry now plans to
implement a timely and accurate reporting system to assist monitor these policies with
extensive cooperation from both central and local Government agencies and non Government
organizations.
The Ministry have therefore identified the need for an integrated and automated Information
System to meet its increasingly demanding tasks. Moreover, information needs are planned to
expand substantially in the next two to three years. The World Bank have also agreed to
support these objectives and requirements to develop a comprehensive information system and
data base, and have confirmed their agreement in principle to finance a project to develop an
information system for the Ministry.
Study Results:
Through World Bank Loan No: 2725-IND has been realized implementation of Information
System and Data Base for the Office of the State Minister for Housing with the following
detailed reports:
1.  Information System and Data Base
Base on Consultant's Study on Information System and Data Base the existing system has
been able to fulfil the present requirement of working units at the Office of The State
Minister for Housing.
The system will be improved and revised based on the requirements and needs by the
working units. This facility is already included by the Consultant in the design planning.
2.  Hardware
Hardware which is needed for establishing Information System and Data Base covering



63
new Components as well as up grading old components. New components consisted of
computer, printer and its whole supplements.
Up grading old components in PC-AT computer which is already existing beforehand,is
by up graded its memory capability (RAM) and its monitor replaced by color appearance.
All of the intended components already functioned and worked according to expectation.



64
HOUSING POLICY STUDIES PROJECT
Objective
There are several recurring ideas embodied in the policy recommendations stated in
the sections that follow. Stating them now will help clarify the broader framework
behind the individual recommendations.
One is that while BTN has been a powerful force in developing high quality housing
and in expanding the capacity of the housing construction industry, its current
operations command too great a share of Government's resources --both subsidies
and attention of policy makers--for the sector. BTN's overall level of activity should
be maintained or even expanded, but in lending to middle and higher income
families (monthly household incomes over Rp.200,000) no interest rate subsidy
should be provided; and all of the funds it receives at low cost from Bank
Indonesia, the Ministry of Finance, and the World Bank should be allocated
exclusively to lower income households.
A second theme is that wherever possible Government should encourage effiviency
through increased competition. For example, mortgage lending to moderate income
households by other banks could be fostered by creation of a secondary mortgage
facility, this facility would also increase the total volume of funds available for
sector lending.
A third theme is that Government should redirect its ongoing programs of
infrastructure provision in urban areas to provide a larger share of improvements to
lower income areas which have grater deficits in basic infrastructure services. Such
redirection will result in greater welfare gains directly through the services and
encourage households to upgrade their housing.
A fourth theme is Government must improve the execution of those critical
functions assigned to it. One example is greater efficiency in the land titling
process for formal sector housing, much of which is built by Real Estate Indonesia
firms and financed by BTN, PT. Papan Sejahtera, and commercial banks. Another is
making more effective use of the existing planning mechanisms, particularly at the
development permit stage, to guide orderly residential development.
The final theme is for Government to direct more of its effort to enhance the
effectiveness of those processes which provide most housing in urban areas: the
individual family who buys or builds and then gradually improves its unit and the
owner of a few rental units. Particular actions, which would improve the efficiency



65
of the housing development and upgrading processes, include making small, market
rate housing loans with terms two to five years widely available for development of
both rental and owneroccupied housing and taking action to give greater legal
standing to land titles which have not been through the entire process of
registration with Agraria. Government attention to the rental sector, which is just
beginning in Repelita V, is especially critical given the scant consideration it has
received in the past and its great importance to families in the lower half of the
income distribution.
As suggested, our analysis has been oriented toward major policy isssues.
However, we have not privided detailed programmatic plans to implement our
policy recommendations. Help in developing such plans, building on the findings
presented in this report, has been assigned by the Ministry to Flagler Management
and Lembaga Management.
Study Results:
Based on the foregoing analysis, we have identified nine high priority areas for
action by Government in the entire shelter sector.
1.  BTN should take steps to improve its income targeting, by requiring total
household income, as opposed to only applicant income, to be within its
income eligibility limits. Moreover, private developers should be restricted from
selling the home buyer additional land adjacent to the property being financed
by BTN in order to enforce lot size limitations.
2.  To reduce the price of the final product, BTN must process  developer
applications faster by eliminating redundant decision making and procedures
that no longer serve a useful purpose, such as the issuance of the
commitment letter.
3.  BTN underwriting guidelines appear to permit borrowers to commit themselves
to devoting a higher share of their income to housing expenditures than is
typical of other recent home purchasers. Strong consideration should be given
to tightening these guidelines, since over commitment by borrowers may be
causing delinquencies in repayments.
4.  The nascent housing finance system needs further development.
This process can be accelerated through several steps: all mortgage lending by
BTN should be at market interest rates, except for loans to households with
total incomes of under Rp.200,000 per month; more lenders should be
encouraged to make mortgage loans; and development of a secondary



66
mortgage purchase facility should be undertaken because it would provides a
powerful inducement to other banks to make such loans, since being able to
sell mortgage would deal with both liquidity and interest rate risks.
5.  Government needs to address the housing finance need of lower income
households not served by BTN and of those developing rental housing for this
same group. Such lending will accelerate the speed at which housing is
incrementally developed. Small loans for two to five years should be made
available through lenders operating at the community level. The design of such
a loan program should be immediately undertaken.
6.  Where  Government undertakes  projects  to  increase  the  quality  of
infrastructure sevices provided to residential areas, a higher share of
improvements should be targeted on the lower income areas with the greatest
deficits.
7.  Much of the problem with squatting and other forms of very insecure tenure
has been avoided in Indonesia because of the flexible land law system which
permits a variety of levels of land rights and corresponding degrees of tenure
security. Government should maintain and facilitate this process as it allows
low income families to obtain a degree of tenure security they otherwise
would not be able to afford; this security encourages housing investment. In
addition, Government should seek ways to upgrade the standing of some of
these unregistered titles so as to permit them to be used as loan collateral.
8.  The formal land titling system is characterized by excess costs, overly long
pricessing times, and needlessly complex procedures. In addition, existing
regulations are often only erratically enforced.
Suggestions for steamlining the process are not new; improvements will
materialize only if Government develops a commitment to reform and a
determination to follow through on needed changes.
9.  Lastly, Indonesia has been fortunate in that many urban households have been
able to develop adequate shelter because of the easy availability of water from
shallow wells and the existence of soils suitable for on-site human waste
disposal systems. In addition, the general lack of application of planning and
subdivision regulations and building controls for the majority of urban housing
has facilitated the supply of low cost housing.
Whatever the costs of such an omission, the benefits for high volume shelter
supply are probably greater. Government should not reverse its current
approach.



TABLE 1 A
s  ,.- t. ^ .. -          +- COOPERATION AGREEMENT
THE OFFICE OF STATE MINISTER FOR HOUSING
WITH
THE FLAGLER MANAGEMENT GROUP AND LEMBAGA MANAGEMENT,
FACULTY OF ECONOMICS - UNIVERSITY OF INDONESIA
IN THE FRAMEWORK OF IMPLEMENTING IBRD LOAN
HSL I NO. 2725-IND
R U P I A H                DOLLARS                     BALANCE
TASK    NUMBER OF            CONTRACT   REALIZATION      CONTRACT    REALIZATION    RUPIAH      DOLLARS
NO. ORDER  CONTRACTS             VALUE                       VALUE
1.  TO.01   O1/MENPERA/HSL/V/87  313.126.000  312.621.000    253,900      249,651         505.000    4,249
May 1,1987
2.  TO.03   03/MENPERA/HSL/IV/88  199.950.000  195.737.825    --                        4.212.175   --
April 1,1988
3.  TO.04   04/MENPERA/HSL/IV/88  131.450.000  131.450.000    40,850       40,850       --          --
April 1,1988
4.  TO.05   05/MENPERA/HSL/IV/88  196.390.000  196.390.000    --          --            --          --
April 4,1988
5.  TO.06   06/MENPERA/HSL/IV/88  112.630.000  109.437.500    25,900       25,900       3.192.500   --
April 4,1988
6.  TO.07   07/MENPERA/HSL/XII/88  124.765.200  118.824.000   48,523       47,340       5.941.200    1,183
December 29,1988
7.  TO.08   08/MENPERA/HSL/XII/88  159.080.250  151.505.000   33,108        32,300      7.575.250     808
December 29,1988
8.  TO.09   09/MENPERA/HSL/XII/88   92.918.700   88.494.000    --         --            4.424.700   --
December 29,1988
9.  TO.10   10/MENPERA/HSL/X/89   237.815.550  237.815.550   136,089       136,089      --          --
October 23,1989
10. TO.11   11/MENPERAIHSL/IX/90  400.900.000  400.900.000   131,325       131,325                   --
September 14,1990
11. TO.12   12/MENPERA/HSL/X/91   528.267.500  528.267.500   174,690       174,690
October 21,1991
2.184.167.200 2.158.821.375    590,485    588,494      25.345.825    1,991



Continued
1W9r*~W
TASK    NUMBER OF             CONTRACT    REALIZATION      CONTRACT    REALIZATION    RUPIAH       DOLLARS
NO. ORDER   CONTRACTS              VALUE                       VALUE
12. TO.01.E  01.E/MENPERA/HSL/XII/88  189.678.300  180.646.000  207,050       206,836      9.032.300     214
December 29,1988
13. TO.01.E1 01.E1/MENPERA/HSL/XII/  209.403.600  209.403.600   108,855       108,855
88, December 29,1988
14. TO.01.E2 01.E2/MENPERA/HSL/Xll/  341.313.000  341.313.000   208,096       208,096
88, December 29,1988
15. TO.01.  01.E2B/MENPERA/HSL/    579.624.073  579.624.073     587,820       587,820      -
E2B    1/1990, January 23,1990
1.320.018.973 1.310.986.673    1,111,821   1,111,607    9.032.300       214           o
Training:
Training Program Fels                               105,220      105,220
Center, Philadelphia,
USA
Training Program HDFC                                17,050       17,050
(Bombay-India)
Conference Program                                   5,170         5,170
(international Shelter
Conference Washington)
Training Program Fels                                52,325       52,325
Center Philadelphia,
USA
179,765      179,765
3.817.312.173 3.782.429.048   2,135,971   2,129,517     34.883.125   6,554



TABLE 2A
COOPERATION AGREEMENT
THE OFFICE OF STATE MINISTER FOR HOUSING
WITH
THE URBAN INSTITUTE AND HASFARM DIAN CONSULTANT
IN THE FRAME WORK OF IMPLEMENTING IBRD LOAN,
HSL I NO. 2725-IND
R U P I A H                DOLLARS                     BALANCE
NUMBER OF            CONTRACT    REALIZATION     CONTRACT    REALIZATION   RUPIAH       DOLLARS
NO.         CONTRACTS            VALUE                       VALUE
1.          02/MENPERA/HSL/V/87  931.408.000  916.408.000    661,977.00    656,977.00    15.000.000   5,000.00
January 4,1987
2.          02.E1 /MENPERA/HSL/11/89 37.800.000   37.800.000  73,840.00     73.840.00    --           --
February 8,1989
3.          02.E2/MENPERA/HSL/II/89 62.560.000   62.560.000   38,377.50     38,377.50    --           --
February 8,1 989
4.          02.E3/MENPERAIHSL/II/89 79.790.000   79.790.000   62,477.50     62,477.50    --           --
February 8,1989
5.          02.E4/MENPERA/HSL/II/89 33.867.500   33.867.500   35,940.00     35,940.00    --           --
February 8,1989
6.          02.E5/MENPERA/HSL/II/89 30.720.000   30.720.000   37,940.00     37,940.00    --           --
February 8,1989
1.176.145.500 1.161.145.500    910,552.00    905,552.00  15.000.000   5,000.00



TABLE 3A
TOTAL IBRD LOAN NO. 2725-IND (HSL I)
FOR THE OFFICE OF THE STATE MINISTER FOR HOUSING
R U P I A H                  DOLLARS                      BALANCE
GENERAL               CONTRACT    REALIZATION      CONTRACT    REALIZATION    RUPIAH         DOLLARS
NO.                                VALUE'S                       VALUE
1.  Cooperation Agreement The Office   3.817.312.173 3.782.429.048   2,135,971.00   2,129,517.00   34.883.125   6,454.00
of State Minister for Housing with
the Flagler Management Group and
Lembaga Management, Faculty of
Economics - University of Indonesia
in the Framework of Implementing
IBRD Loan HSL I No. 2725-IND.
0
2.  Cooperation Agreement The Office   1.176.145.500 1.161.145.500  910,552.00    905,552.00   15.000.000   5,000.00
of State Minister for Housing with
The Urban Institute and Hasfarm
Dian Consultant in the Framework
of Implementing IBRD Loan HSL I
No. 2725-IND.
T O T A L              4.993.457.673 4.943.574.548  3,046,523.00   3,035,069.00   49.883.125   11,454.00



71
EN C LO SURE  B



TABLE I B
KPR SOURCES OF FUND
PELITA II                                                            (thousands Rupiah)
1974/1975           1975/1976            1976/1977            1977/1978           1978/1979               T O T A L
SOURCE OF FUND                     __ __                                        ___
Rp        %         Rp         %         Rp                   P Rp      %          Rp          %          Rp       ___
GOVERNMENT EQUITY              0    0.00           0      0.00           0    0.00           0    0.00        489,360    9.63     489,360         9.56
LIQUIDITY CREDITS              0    0.00           0      0.00      30,000  80.00      877,256   80.00       3.673,152   72.29    3,703,152      72.35
OF BANK INDONESIA
B.T.N. FUND                    0    0.00           0      0.00         750   20.00     219,314   20.00        918.288   18.07     925,788        18.09
CS4
WORLD BANK LOAN                0    0.00           0      0.00           0    0.00           0    0.00             0    0.00           0          0.00
TOTAL (RP)                 0    0.00           0     0.00       30,750  100.00    1,096,570  100.00     5,080,800   99.99    5.118,300     100.00
TOTAL (UNIT)               0                   0                    17                 543                   2,432              2,992
.~~~~0             .     ~        _.



73
No.                PROJECT AGREEMENT                                      STATUS
In the case of land already bought and banked by
PERUMNAS in areas which do not meet the criteria
(thus with limited housing demand), PERUMNAS will
either attempt to sell these sites and/or will delay their
development until demand is shown to exist. Where
PERUMNAS is requested by the Government to build
in remote location for political reasons, those projects
will be small in size (below 200 units).
B. Demand Studies and Project Planning
2.2. Housing demand studies will be conducted prior to site  Implemented
selection and land acquisition. Survey methods and
analyses performed to date will be fully operational by
April 1,1987 and will be the prime responsibility of
each Branch Office. Technical assistance to the Branch
Office will be provided by the Head Office staff and
consultants. The demand analysis will make recom-
mendations with respect to possible project size,
phasing and house type distribution and will include
target prices and plot sizes. Each city or area
requesting a PERUMNAS project will be required to
complete the "Daftar Pertanyaan Kota" or city statistic
questionnaire and assist in the interview process for
the demand study.
C. Prefeasibility and Site Selection Analyses
2.3. A prefeasibility study will be conducted prior to land    Implemented
acquisition and as part of the site selection analysis.
PERUMNAS will make use of the "Analisis Kelayakan
dan Keterjangkauan Proyek Pembangunan Perumahan
Sederhana" model (prefeasibility model) which allows
a quick evaluation of cost and profit margins for each
proposed site.



PELITA IV                                                                                                                   Continued
1984/1985           1985/1986            1986/1987           1987/1988           1988/1989              T O T A L
SOURCES OF FUND
Rp        %         Rp         %         Rp        %         FRp     ___          Rp         %          Rp           %
GOVERNMENT EQUITY  20,999,588       8-10 117,146.840    22.13  25,422,746   21.51  59,139,481    21.51    110,430.281  21.51  273,999,455      19.30
LIQUIDITY CREDITS    202,385,153    0.00 350,360,905    66.19  20,588,761    17.42  47,894,457    17.42    89,432.613  17.42  662,767.432      46.67
OF BANK INDONESIA
B.T.N. FUND          35.715,027     0.00  61,828,395    11.68  38,010,020   32.16  88,420,535    32.16    165,106,36   32.16  300,659,804      21.17
WORLD BANK LOAN              0      0.00         0       0.00  34,168.833    28.91  79,485,002    28.91   148,421.17   28.91  182,590,007      12.86
TOTAL (RP)    259.099,768       8.10 529,336,140    100.00 118,190,360   100.00 274,939,475   100.00  513.390,43C 100.00 1,420,016,698    100.00
TOTAL (UNIT)         46,137              95,357                26,901              61,160                 114,110            343,665



PELITA V                                                                               Continued
1989/1990             1990/1991              1991/1992             T O T A L
SOURCES OF FUND
Rp                   Rp          %         Rp          %         Rp         %
GOVERNMENT EQUITY        8,235,676     2.00  22,070,813       7.57   986,148       7.57  31,292,637     10.27
LIQUIDITY CREDITS      63,085,281     15.32 123,707,342     42.43 5,527,382      42.43 192,320,005     63.14
OF BANK INDONESIA
B.T.N. FUND           340,462,862     82.68 145,778,155     50.00 6,513,530       50.00 492,754,547    161.78
WORLD BANK LOAN                0       0.00         0        0.00        0        0.00          0       0.00
TOTAL (RP)    411,783,819    100.0( 291,556,310       100.0C 13,027,060     100.00 716,367,189    235.19
T O T A L (UNIT)      86,466               64,246                51,899               202,611
DESEMBER 1992



TABLE 2 B
ALLOCATION OF LOAN WORLD BANK IBRD LOAN 2725-IND
NO 216/DDI/1986. Dated AUGUST 25th, 1986
CATEGORY                      ORIGINAL LOAN              ALLOCATION I)            ALLOCATION 11--)           ALLOCATION III )              REALIZATION                   BALANCE
(I)                             (2)                        (3)                         (4)                        (5)                         (6)                    (7) -(5)-(6)
I HOUSING SECTOR LOAN:
* SUB LOAN TYPE A                               62,000,000 00               44300,000 00               46.360.000 00               46.395.000 00              46.393.325 16                     1,674 84
- SUB LOAN TYPE B                              141.000,000 00              100,800,000.00              101.270.000 00             101.270.000 00             101,269.235 82                      764 18
SUB LOAN TYPE C                                60,000.000 00               42,900,000.00              40.370,000 00               40,390,000 00              40,388,620 01                     1,379.99
SUB TOTAL                                     263.000.000.00              188,000.000 00             188,000.000 00              188.055.000 00             188.051,180 99                    3,819 01
2 EQUIPMENT                                         750.000 00                  750,000 00                 190,000 o0                  190.000 00                 189.162 43                      837 57
3. CONSULTANT SERVICE
- part B                                          2.800.000 00                2,800.000 00               3,589,000 00               5.206,000.00                2.712.576 91                2,493.423 09
parl C                                             570.000.00                 570,000 00                  729.000 OU                 729.000 00                  728.089 07                     910 93
- part D                                          1.200,000 00                1,200.000 00               7,492.000 00                5.820.000 00               5,324.867.05                  495.132 95
SUB TOTAL                                        4,570 00000                4.570.000 00               tt.810,000 00               11,755,000 00               8.765.533 03               2.988,556 04       O_
0'
4 UNALLOCATED                                      6,680,000.00               6,680,000 00                      0 00                        0.00                       0 00                         0 00
T O T A L                                     275,000,000.00              200.000,000 00             200.000,000.00              200.000,000 00             197,005,876A45                2,992,375 05
TOTAL ALLOCATION FOR BTN
(CATEGORY i +CATEGORY 3 PART B)                 272.440.000 00              197.440,000 00              191.589,000 00             193.261,000 00              190,763.757 90                2,497.242 10
NOTES.
OCTOBER 16th, 1987 allocated I cancelled amountmg USS 75,000.00000 so that loan ceiling tor BTN become USS 197,440,000 00
*-) DECEMBER 13th, 1990. allocabon for the office of the State Minister lor Housing amounting USS 5,851 .000 00
so that loan ceiling to BTN become USS 191.589,000 00
December 26th.1991 realocated III ( Woeld Bank leter) that is
From 3-C to Catagory 3-A. USS 1.617.000,00
- From 3.C to Catagory 'A-I USS.  35,000 00
- From 3-C to Catagory I-C. USS   20.000 00
T O T A L               uS5 1,672.000.00
SothatBTNa8locabOn - USS 1,672.00000 + USSt 191.589.00000 - USS t93,261,00000



77
TABLE 3 B.
IBRO HOUSING SECTOR LOAN NO. 2725-IND.
LIST OF CONSULTANT SERVICES
90.           NAME OF PROJECT                 TOTAL                                    DESCRIPTIONS
(US DOLLAR)                                                                          l
1 Implementation of new systems, man power   1.800,000.00 Objectives:
planning and management advisory services            - To create computerizaton system in
(PWS, No. 02/PKS/DIR/1986.Dec.9.1986)                  a. Accounting system and credit administrabon.
b. Accountng system and savings administrabon system.
c. Management informabon system.
-To create system and procedure along with policy in
a. Employee's evaluation related to promotion.
b. Employee's data base related to career planning.
c. Recnuitment and selecton of candidate.
- To assist BTN in coordinating and supervising Bank activities
related to the implementabon of new computerizaton systemr
Result obtained:
- Manpower plan to achieve strategy during REPELrTA IV and V
* The existence of computerizaton system upon KPR credit
administration, savings and MIS
2 Computer installation. systems implementaSo    259,000.00 Objecbves:
and development.                                      Computer A-3 installation in Yogjakarta, Jakarta I and Banciung
(PWS, No. 09/PKS/DIR/t969.Apr.8,1 989)               -To create GL electronic integrabon.
* To settle backlog problems at Post office.
* To create MIS in financial sector.
3 Contract addendum                          96,107.00 Contract addendum No.021PKS/DIR/1 986,Dec.9 1 986.
(PWS. No. 10/PKS/DIR,/1989.Apr.8a1989)              Objectives:
To create computerizabon system for application
- Mortgage Loan Down Payment Savings Scheme.
. Contractual Savings Scheme.
* Home Improvement Savings Scheme.
4 System implementation. systems maintenanc   561,000.00 Objectives:
and systems development.                             * To assist the settlement of problems exist in computer A-3 system.
(PWS. No. 13/PKS/DIRI1989.Oct.24.1989)               -To make TABANAS data base for implementation of lottery.
-To review savings application system.
-To create credit application concept:
a. Individual Home Improvement Loans.
b. Mortgago Finaneo Loans for rentbl housing owners.
c. Sorviced Lots Mortgages.
d. Individual Constructions Loans for home owners.
* Domand DOposits application
* Timo Deposits application.



78
Continued
NAME OF PROJECT               TOTAL                                  DESCRIPTIONS
______________________________        (US  DOLLAR)
i Computer systems planning, recluirements  40,000.00 Objecbves:
analyses, evaluabon, programming, debugg-          * To provide study on automation needed for BTN operation
ing implementabon and documentation.                conceming hardware, software and brainware.
(EXCEL, No. 03A/DIR/1 990.Jan.25, 1990)            - To review the existng BTN automabon strategy and all at once
giving altemabve and acton plan.
Technical assistance in developing an accru-    115,104.00 Objectives:
al base accountng and reporting systems.           * To design and produce financial report system base on accrual basis.
(FLAGLER, No. 01/BTN/ASSOC/HSL.                    - To assist BTN in converting from cash basis system to accrual basis.
Dec.1 ,1990                                        -To assist BTN in identtying and classifying the exisbng changes and
improvement needed in connecton with accounting policy or General Ledger.
. To assist 8TN in performing the training needed for BTN employee both at
Head Office and Branch Offices in connection with the change ot system
from cash basis to accrual basis.
7 Informaton systems and EDP Planning      496,000.00 Objetives:
jEXCEL, No. 26/PKS/DIRt1990.Sept.21,1990)          1. To evaluate the treasury of hardware, sottware, product applicaton
and knowledge as well as computer technical skill owned by BTN.
2. To evaluate industrial tendency and computer technology in Indonesia.
3. To develop EDP strategy and network for assistng toward BTN development
4. To evaluate the now existng system at BTN, such as A-3 system, software
system developed by BIT and IFS along with producing of one system
standardizabon.
5. To invite vendors which will cooperate with BTN for developing Banking
system in BTN.
6. To make planning of EDP acbvities for 1991, 1992 and 1993 along with to
develop EDP Project Planning for short, medium and long term.
Result obtained:
* BTN informabon system planning document.
- BTN EDP planning
8 Systems implementabon, maintenance and   587,850.00 Objectives:
development.                                       1. To assist BTN in solving the A-3 computer operatonal problem and LINC
(PWS, No. 22/PKS/DIRPt990.Aug.22,1990)              applicabon system software to include correcton against misprogram happened.
2. To assist BTN to determine:
2.1. Data base for periodical savings information in order to support savings
lottery operation.
2.2. New procedure requirements for TABANAS.
2.3. KPR product applicabon:
- Individual Home Improvement. - Individual Construction Loan for home owners
- Mortgage Finance Loan for  - Serviced lost mortgage.
rental housing owners.
2.4. KPR Audit applicabon.
2.5. Demand Deposits application.
2.6. Time Deposits applicabon.
Result obtained:
System A-3 computer has been operated in several BTN Branch Office.



79
Continued
NO.            NAME OF PROJECT                TOTAL                                   DESCRIPTIONS
(US DOLLAR)                      _
9 Turnkey systems development.               84,000.00 Objectives:
(PWS, No. 10/PKS/DlR/1991 .Apr.6,1991)               - To design and to install ATM at BTN Bekasi and Jakarta - Kuningan.
Result obtained
The existence of ATM at BTN Bekasi and Jakarta - Kuningan, make drawing or
savings money is able to be done anytime by customers.
10 Systems maintenance.                      204,800.00 Objectives:
(PWS, No. 1 1/PKS/DIRv1991 .Apr.6,1991)              To support programs (Savings, KPR, Demand Deposits, Time Deposits and GL)
which have been finished in installaton support sector, to cover:
1. To perform corTection against mistakes found in programs.
2. To give technical solution upon ditficulties which appear in the programs.
3. To extend informabon in connection with program for the smoothness of BTN
operation.
11 Technical assistance consultant services  195,000.00 Objectives:
organizational analyses.                             To rearrange the organization both of Head Office and Branch Offices, through
(FIserv, No. 19/PKS/DIR.July.30,1992)                1. Observation and evaluabon toward organization oi Head Office and Branch
Offices, job descrpbon and its operational procedure.
(ft is planned to be completed at the end of December 1992)
2. Implementation of perfecting Head Office and Branch Offices organizaton.
(ft is planned to be completed on January 1993)
Result obtained:
BTN organizabon and operabonal procedure which is capable to support
the growing of BTN as a healthy commercial Bank with priority of main credit
operational in housing sector.
TOTAL                    4,438,861.00
_  s~c .           .        



TABLE 4 B
CONDITIONAL STATUS OF AIDE MEMOIRE. JULY 1991 UP TO DECEMBER 1992
DESCRIPTION                       TIME                          STATUS OF JULY 1991                                           STATUS U/T DEC 1992
TARGET
A F..anctal Aspect
1 Arrears                                Decernber 1991   Outstandng o KPR arrears Rp. 99,5 Btillo                         Outstand.ng of KPR arrears ncluded Pas-,e PUL, BUPLN and
Agreed the posibon o0 KPR arrears                        (,ncluded Pas,e Reschedulng, BUPLN and                          erpty house (3 months up)
more than 3 months awountng                              empty house)                                                     I As ot June 30, 1992 - Rp 107 357 mIllion
Rp 70 Rilon mcluded Pass,ce.                                                                                              (according to BTN's Second Ouarterly Report posibon
Reschedulng. BUPLN and empty hou                                                                                           already -enl to World Bank)
2 As ot Desembe, 31, 1992                                988    B8110On
00)                 2 Pro,,s.oning. wne-ott                   December 1991   Target up to Dec 31,1991                         2000    Bheinon   Ba]ance target u/t Decer,,ber 1991                       66 3    Blion
Reser,abwon Ior nulhlficabon of                          Already been lorm-ed upto June 1991             90 4   BRlonr    - Already been tormed June u/t Dec 1991                  30 1    RBlion
doubled debts targeted up to                             Formed end June 1991                            43 3   Bl-on
Dec 31.1991 Rp 200 B,ior
(tIns proposs not agreed by BTN                                                                                            B .1larrce target                                       362    BiIh-on
Balance larget                                  66 3   BIli,on
Formed Jan U/I July t992                                29 3     thorl
Balance target                                           64    BIbon
B Organizabon and Plannmng Aspect
I EDP Plan                                  Already       - tmple,mented                                                   Implemented
tulfinled     Revlsion -erslon has been sewd to World Bank
through BTN letter No 170/DIR/BPP/It991 dated
July 3. 1991
2 Masnpo.er and plannlrg aspect
- Job descnpbon o workng unts at B       October 1991    - Not yet conplete                                               Implermented
eelh nhe  formal                                                                                                          Job descnpt.ow anlh new fonmat as mnt,o1ed already
been done and then tIns job descnptron wrIt become mte
ot the materIal for 0,gan.zatbona
Rein-w by Finse- and LMFE Ul



Continue
DESCRIPTION                      TIME                          STATUS OF JULY 1991                                          STATUS U/T DEC 1992
TARGET
3 Organizational Review
- Consultant Fiserv cooperate with LM   September t99t   - BTN give dratt proposal consultant Booz-Allen                 - Booz-Allen cancelled and replace by Fiserv,
*Consultant Fiserv start working at BTN since Aug 25,1992
-NO Objection Letter (NOL) already issued by Word Bank
on September 14t1992
Finish on, December31. 1992
4 Corporate Plan                           August 1991     Draft Corporate Plan already been submitted                     Implemented
-The final version has been 3ent throUgh BTN letter No
250/DIR/BIDIR/t 991 dated September 12, 1991
00
5 Internal Audit                         December 1991   - Presentalion about *IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM ON                   Implemented
IMPROVEMENT OF ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONAL                    ImpiCITientation Program and Actioni Plan enclosed
OF INTERNAL AUDIT BUREAU 1991t
C Accountng Aspect
1 Post Ottice transaction with new proc      Already      Implementation Plan has been presented                           Implemented
and new system                             fulfilled    to Mr Boldrick                                                   Now already been performed in all of the Branch Oftices
2 Accrual Accounting                      February 1992    R Dougal Menelaws and BKA presentation about                   Execution o0 software for LAN / IFS performed by Computindo
Accrual Accounting concept                                     Respati and for program already I 00% (tor KPR package A & B)
and now conversion process is being done wrth Pilot Project
BTN Harnoni Banch






82
EN C LO SURE  C






Perum Perumnas
INSTITUTIONAL ACTION PROGRAM
No.                PROJECT AGREEMENT                                    STATUS
1.    Spesical Sales Program to Reduce Backlog of Completed but
Unsold Units and Plots.
1.1. PERUMNAS shall reduce the existing sales backlog  December 31, 1992
as at March 31, 1987 of approximately 10,000 units    - RSH Stock: 5,132 Units
completed (RSH) and 14,000 developed plots (KTM)    - KTM Stock:  500 Units
by one - half before March 31,1987 and the remainder
before March 31,1989. For this purpose, PERUMNAS
will continue to use the procedures adopted in joint
meetings with BTN and described in the Annex to this
schedule.
oo              1.2. PERUMNAS will implement the recommendations of a
final report prepared jointly with the Inspector
General's office, Ministry of Public Works, concerning
the persistently high vacancy rates at nine (9) project
locations, before October 31,1986.
2.    Revised Programming, Site Selection and Feasiblity Study
Procedures.
In order to ensure continued efficiency in its sales program,
the PERUMNAS Board will adopt and implement the
following policies and procedures
A. City Selection Criteria.
2.1. PERUMNAS will develop its future projects to      Implemented: Number and type
maximize the number of units in metropolitan/ city  of constructed houses according
areas with populations over 200,000 and/or populati-  to confirmation or PPR.
on growth rates of over 4% (as determined using the
latest available data).



No.                 PROJECT AGREEMENT                                      STATUS
In the case of land already bought and banked by
PERUMNAS in areas which do not meet the criteria
(thus with limited housing demand), PERUMNAS will
either attempt to sell these sites and/or will delay their
development until demand is shown to exist. Where
PERUMNAS is requested by the Government to build
in remote location for political reasons, those projects
will be small in size (below 200 units).
B. Demand Studies and Project Planning
2.2.  Housing demand studies will be conducted prior to site  Implemented
selection and land acquisition. Survey methods and
analyses performed to date will be fully operational by
April 1,1987 and will be the prime responsibility of
each Branch Office. Technical assistance to the Branch
Office will be provided by the Head Office staff and
consultants. The demand analysis will make recom-
mendations with respect to possible project size,
phasing and house type distribution and will include
target prices and plot sizes. Each city or area
requesting a PERUMNAS project will be required to
complete the "Daftar Pertanyaan Kota" or city statistic
questionnaire and assist in the interview process for
the demand study.
C. Prefeasibility and Site Selection Analyses
2.3.  A prefeasibility study will be conducted prior to land    Implemented
acquisition and as part of the site selection analysis.
PERUMNAS will make use of the "Analisis Kelayakan
dan Keterjangkauan Proyek Pembangunan Perumahan
Sederhana" model (prefeasibility model) which allows
a quick evaluation of cost and profit margins for each
proposed site.



No.                 PROJECT AGREEMENT                                      STATUS
The study will estimate the likely cost of
development matched to predicted demand and
estimated project revenues. Project proposals which
are estimated to be below the financial break-even
point will be considered for elimination or
restructuring.
2.4. PERUMNAS will allocate an adequate number of man-   Implemented.
days for site selection activities. Field study will
include cadastral, topographic, soils and hydrological
investigations. PERUMNAS will either staff land
investigation teams with engineers experienced in
these investigations or will use local consultants
expert in the various disciplines. Preliminary tests
will be made on soils to determine soil type and
behaviour.
2.5.  Housing sites will be located in areas with reasonable   Implemented.
access to public transport, employment opportunities
m)                   and shopping and social facilities. A checklist system
oo                   to ensure that the site has access to essential services
such as water, electricity and flood control will be
implemented. PERUMNAS will make full use of the
recent aerial photo maps (contoured) available from
the Director General Agraria's Office.
D. Feasibility Studies.
2.6.  Improved prefeasibility investigations will assist in the   Implemented.
feasibility study. As from October 31,1986,
PERUMNAS will ensure that topographic,
hydrological and off-site information is complete and
accurate before finalizing the feasibility study.
Advanced preliminary engineering designs will be
undertaken and costs based on these designs.
BRK review planning meetings will include Branch
3



No.                PROJECT AGREEMENT                                    STATUS
Office staff. Land use design and costing will be
supported by software at present in place or in the
process of acquisition. PERUMNAS will ensure that
feasibility teams include the experienced planners and
consultants necessary to this process.
3.    Revised Pricing, Marketing and Sales Procedures
A. Pricing
3.1. PERUMNAS will formulate and fix house and plot    Implemented.
prices on the basis of the detailed feasibility study
(Buku Rencana Kelayakan or BRK). These Prices can
be announced before construction starts to enable
prospective homeowners to save for a fixed
downpayment, payable either directly to PERUMNAS
or to BTN, using the downpayment savings program
Tabungan Uang Muka or TUM.
The BRK sales prices will contain both price
and physical contingency allowances, and include
price escalation factors through to the estimated
year sale.
PERUMNAS will continue to use its current pricing
formula which aims at full recovery of all capital costs
and financial charges and, through continuing design
and construction management improvements, will
ensure that unit costs remain low.
B. Immediate Sale Policy
3.2  PERUMNAS will ensure that the downpayment amount  Implemented.
and closing costs have been paid before occupancy
occurs.
C. Commitment Letters (CLs) from Bank Tabungan Negara
3.3. Commencing October 31,1986, PERUMNAS will
obtain from BTN a Commitment Letter (CL) for each



No.                PROJECT AGREEMENT                                     STATUS
project, regardless of whether or not it requires
construction financing for the project.
This is required to ensure early coordination
between BTN and PERUMNAS and to facilitate
mortgage loan processing for the project.
D. 'Selection of Beneficiaries, unit Allocation and
Mortgage Processing.
3.4. Mortgage loan applications from non-fixed-income   Implemented.
applicants are now permitted under the new mortgage
lending criteria established in Bank Indonesia's letter
to BTN dated September 9,1985. PERUMNAS will
revise the selection procedures for applicants by
October 31, 1986, to ensure equal access with
maximum administrative efficiency (i.e, implement an
automated random selection procedure for qualified
applicants). To streamline allocation and loan
processing and eliminate delays, PERUMNAS and BTN
will combine the responsibility, procedures and
appraisal forms required for unit allocation and
mortgage processing by October 31, 1986
E. Marketing Campaigns
3.5. Promotional and advertising campaigns will occur at    Implemented
the demand analysis phase (SKPR). Meeting with the
Walikota/ Bupati and local Government officials will be
required early in the life of the project, and local
cooperatives and target groups will receive promo-
tional material for their members regarding an up-
coming PERUMNAS project.
The BRK will contain one complete section devoted to
a marketing plan and selected target groups.
It is estimated that following a trial period, this work
will be standardized in the BRK reporting format by
October 31, 1986.
...... Kg, : . Z24:3.



No.                 PROJECT AGREEMENT                                      STATUS
F. Titling and Plot Measurement Problems
3.6.  PERUMNAS will establish joint task forces by October  Implemented.
31,1986, with the staff of the Director General
Agraria at the local level (Tingkat II), which will meet
periodically and resolve problems on site, if required.
PERUMNAS will also discuss policies and procedures
which are deemed inadequate with the Director
General Agraria and other policymakers.
4.    Revised Construction Policies and Procedures
A. Current Construction Program
4.1.  By October 31,1986, PERUMNAS will rank projects    Implemented.
under construction and develop a detailed action plan
showing:
a. the status of each project, including the value and
types of constracts required for completion, the
estimated completion date and any problems or
reasons for delay;
b. the likely demand for the project including a
marketing plan, the estimated sales program and the
timing of sales revenues;
c. from the estimated revenues and expenditures a
priority ranking will be prepared and projects will
be completed in accordance with their ranking;
and
d. the action plan will be updated on a quarterly basis,
showing the current construction and sales position.
6



No.                PROJECT AGREEMENT                                    STATUS
B. Detailed Design
4.2. PERUMNAS will immediately commence the develop-   - Standard Library not yet
ment of a systematic 'library of standards".      implemented.
The library will include standard specifications and  - Consultant selection system already
designs which have been tried and tested in use.  implemented.
These designs will be used both by PERUMNAS and    - Standard design already
its consultants. PERUMNAS will immediately examine    implemented.
its system of consultant selection to reflect the high
degree of competence expected.PERUMNAS will, in
the future, avoid customized one-of designs, except in
unusual circumstances, and will used standardized
designs, materials and speciffications.
C. Procurement
4.3. PERUMNAS will immediately commence the screening  Implemented.
of nationally qualified contractors for its short list,
00                      using its knowledge of contractors' ablilities. Where
possible, PERUMNAS will package work in packets
suited to Class A contractors. Such contracts, where
suitable, will be "General Contracts" for all aspects of
the work including material supply, thus reducing the
project management and work scheduling at present
undertaken by PERUMNAS.
Contracts awarded by PERUMNAS exceeding the
equivalent of US$ 5 million will be tendered by
international competitive bidding, where appropriate,
following prequalification of interested bidders.
PERUMNAS will immediately improve its bid evaluation
systems to ensure that the lowest responsive bid is
the recipient of the award. PERUMNAS will retain
control of subcontracting by ensuring that contract
documents afford PERUMNAS both the right of
approval and the right of nomination.
_@.Cs _@C,_.,441 2S                                                     )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



EM          ~        .                                  -- -   ___-                      Continued
No.                PROJECT AGREEMENT                                     STATUS
D. Construction Management and Supervision
4.4. In conjuction with the change towards contractor-  Implemented.
based construction management, PERUMNAS will
allocate site supervision staff in sufficient numbers
with experienced technical guidance. PERUMNAS will
proceed immediately with a site supervisor
training program, satisfactory to the bank, and will
ensure that site staff are competent to interpret
specifications, check contractors materials and work,
and have clear authority to reject unsatisfactory work.
PERUMNAS will immediately ensure that where quality
control, communications or other equipment is to be
supplied by the contractor, the items will be listed in
the contracts documents, prior to tender.
PERUMNAS will immediately improve quality control
audit. A team will visit sites unannounced from time to
time to detect problems and to assist in channeling
appropriate assistance.
E. Maintenance and Hand-over
4.5. PERUMNAS will ensure that discussions take place  Implemented
with local authorities during the planning stage and
that clear lines of responsibility for maintenance and
take-over are established. PERUMNAS recognizes that
low-cost system are often maintenance-intensive and
will establish a maintenance control system to ensure
properly supervised maintenance, thus avoiding delays
in take-over due to poor maintenance.
F. Monitoring and Programming
4.6  To provide continous technical guidance and control
troughout the construction process, PERUMNAS will
do the following.
1-:.-    03 Ij~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



.... "awe ,;_,_^fi2'  ~PROJECT AGREEMENT                                 STATUS
a. PERUMNAS will, whenever possible, appoint project  Not yet implemented
managers at the feasibility stage of the project;
b. PERUMNAS will consider, and if regulations permit,  Implemented
by October 1, 1 987, appoint a "chief engineer" or
"technical director" to control technical features and
the planning, design, construction and maintenance
process for all project; and
c. PERUMNAS will, by October 31,1986, introduce  Implemented
computer-assisted construction programs.
A monitoring program will be introduced to enable
each project to be monitored in detail from inception
to completion. Each stage of the program through
-                        feasibility, construction and sales will have detailed
subprograms capable of measuring performance
against predetermined standards. Personel will be
trained at both Branch and Head Offices in the
implementation of the program.
G. Project Construction Award Approvals
4.7. PERUMNAS is a publicly owned real estate developer,  Implemented
constructing housing projects from its own revenues
in competition with other developers.
PERUMNAS will, therefore, take immediate steps to
minimize the control and approvals required for
contract award which are currently in place with
the Department of Public Works and/ or other
authorities who have already been consulted in the
work program and annual bugdet process.
It is recommended that PERUMNAS should submit
to the Department of Public Works a quarterly report
on project activity and project expenditure, and not
be required to seek approval for every contract.



No.                PROJECT AGREEMENT                                     STATUS
5.    Land Acquisition
5.1  Current PERUMNAS estimates Indicate that a land    - Effort to borrow fund from Ministry
acquisition program of approximately 800 ha is     of Finance for land aquisition
required to meet the Repelita IV program. PERUMNAS    settlement not implemented.
will, therefore, immediately start identifying appro-  - Land acquisition method through
priate sites in key metropolitan areas, and initiate  Land Bank, Land consolidation,
demand survey and site selection programs. Since the    Land owner's partisipation
internal generation of funds from sales revenues may  not yet implemented.
not be sufficient to Finance such large-scale land
acquistion, PERUMNAS will attempt to obtain soft loan
funds for this purpose from the Ministry of Finance.
Cash flow projections for FY 1986/87 and FY 1987/88
indicating the shortage of funds, in view of the timing
of land acquisition, will be prepared by PERUMNAS for
submission to the Ministry of Finance. In the longer
term. PERUMNAS will need to rely on other funding
sources. Therefore, PERUMNAS will begin exploring
and developing schemes such as land bonds, guided
land development, land readjustment, land
consolidation and option purchase, as well as equity
participation with private landowners.
6.    Electronic Data Processing (EDP) Systems, Including
a Management Information System and Accounting System
6.1  PERUMNAS will officially establish an EDP subdivision   Implemented
in the Head Office before June 1,1987. PERUMNAS,
working with consultants, will undertake a conceptual
systems design and identify and prioritize areas which
would benefit from computerization.
Software applications will be developed by the EDP
consultants and a training program implemented.
6.2. PERUMNAS will take steps to ensure that implemen-
tation of the following systems have been completed
and are or will be operational.
10



Continued
No.                PROJECT AGREEMENT                                     STATUS
a. financial accounting (accrual basis) to include
branch office and project unit accounting system
(by October 31,1986);
b. a construction cost accounting system          Implemented
(by October 31,1986);
c. a budgeting system to be installed by October 1,    Implemented
1987 to assist budget preparations for FY 1987/88;
and
d. a MIS System (by July 1,1987).                 Implemented
6.3. PERUMNAS will ensure that its financial statements    Implemented
for the year 1984/1985 are completed and audited by
October 31, 1986. PERUMNAS will implement
procedures to enable future annual financial
statements to be audited within six months of the end
of the fiscal year. PERUMNAS will attempt to ensure
that an unqualified audit opinion can be obtained for
future years by systematically eliminating qualified
items contained in past BPKP audits. PERUMNAS may
attempt to hire independent external auditors if the
State Audit Agency (BPKP) cannot fulfill the work on
time.
7.    Corporate Manpower Plan and Training Program
7.1. PERUMNAS will, by December 31,1987, develop a      - Manpower plan reflecting company's
corporate manpower plan to reflect its three major  development, design and production
tasks                                               and marketing not yet implemented.
- Upgrading Programme already
(1) corporate planning; (2) design and production; and    implemented.
(3) marketing and sales. Technical staff requirements
and training programs to support the proposed
reorganization plan will be developed.



Continued
No.                PROJECT AGREEMENT                                    STATUS
8.    Communications Program to Assist Advertising,
Marketing and Sales.
8.1   Hardware and software for multimedia presentations    Implemented.
to support both the demand analyses and marketing
phases will be developed with consultant assistance.
A Communications program for the corporation to
include a review of all current marketing and consumer
information aids/ questionaires will be completed
by December 31, 1987.
12
.~4     4



95
PART III:  STATISTICAL & FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(Tables and Annexes)






BANK RELATED LOANS                                           Table 1
Loan No.            Loan Title                    Purpose            Year of                   Status
Approval                             |
Ln 1040    Jakarta Urban                Sites and Services               1974           Completed in 12/80
Development Project         in Jakarta
Ln 1972    Fourth Urban                 Sites and Services in           Mar-81          Completed in 1990
Development Project         Outside Jakarta - and



Table 2(i)
Loan Utilization
(USS Milion)
CATEGORY                                       I l  _  SAR  REVISED   ACTUAL
1. Sub Loans     X
Type A                                             62.00       44.30     46.39
Type B                                            141.00      100.80    101.27
Type C                                             60.00       42.90     40.39
2. Equipm ent                                       0.75        0.75      0.19
3. Consultant Services
a. Strengthen BTN _                               2.80       2.80       3.19
b. Strengthen PERUMNAS    _                       0.57       0.57       0.73
I~                                               _
c. Studies (Market, Post-Construction             1.20        1.20      5.81
Evaluation, Land Titling and  _
Policy Analysis)       T                        _   __
4. Unallocated              l                       6.68        6.681
TOTAL                                    2200.00    197.97



98
Table 200
Loan Disbursement
I _ _ _      I                      _ _ _ _ _
1987        1      2.7                0               0%
22              30.5             139%
1988              63.3              69.4            110%
|____ _  110          106.7             97%
1989 _           165.5             155.1             94%
I            206.3             192.8             93%
19901            236.5             192.8             82%
255.2            194.1              76%
1991        1   269.5              194.8             72%
______ I      275              196               71%
1992 _                             196.1             71%
l________  _______  ___ ___  __197  1   72%
1993                               197.5             72%
198              72%
Cancelled         |                 |      77              28%
,TOTAL         _        2751         1    2751             io0



Table 3
99
PROJECT TIMETABLE
.__ _ _   SAR     ACTUAL
ITEM                        DATE    I DATE
Identification              _________  Nov-83
Preparation       L                       ?
Preappraisal                              ?
Appraisal                              Oct-85
Negotiations                           May-86
Board Approval              _____6/23/86
Loan Signature                         6/26/86
Loan Effectiveness             9/25/86 12/16/86
Loan Closing                  12/31/91  12/31/92



I i * -A ,  ;I, I "                                        Table 4(i)
(A) HOUSING LOAN CHARACTERISTICS (Set)
MINIMUM
INTEREST  MAX. LN       iDOWN        LN. MAT.  BORROWER  MAX.             UNIT
TYPE    RATE %        (Rp)     PAYMNT (%)       (%)    INCOME        PRICE        SIZE
A __--   9 __3,900,000 __  __   __             20     __ 300,000  4,330,000 15-21IM2
B _       12       5,600,000     20            20            300,000  7,000,000 27-36M2
C         15 -5-601 87,0000      25            20            300,000  14,460,000 >36M2
(B)  BTN - MORTAGE FINANCING PROGRAM
g ~ ~~ 1:   'W---1-xII    -----'--1---- W7                           7               __
REPELITA III            REPELITA IV            REPELITA V (9/93)
TYPE    lEloi iSI    |VALUE                  h'ilv!LUE                            _
-A
B_
OTHER  _____ ___             ____                ____        _
192,736                  343,665                  299,8691



Table 4(ii)
101
HOUSING MORTGAGES FINANCED BY BTN: 1987/1991                         I
1__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   I _Total
1987      1988!    19891      1990!      1991IUnits
PERUM:                                            _                  i         F
Units                            7,158    20,025    22,002!   11,3821   10,440!   71,007
(Cumulative)                     7,158    27,1831   49,1851   60,567!   71,0071
[  _ _         _         _
Loan Value (Rp. Mill)           18,488    69,148:   88,4171   47,2381   55,0891
(Cumulative)                    18,488    87,636i  176,0531 223,2911  278,3801
NON-PERUM:                                      i_I_i_
Units                           52,318    70,061    91,5961   49,210    46,3201  309,505
(Cumulative)                    52,318   122,3791  213,9751  263,185!   309,505!
Loan Value (Rp. Mill)         241,496   331,159i  452,175!  241,8441  312,272_
(Cumulative)                  241,496   572,6551 1,024,8301 1,266,6741 1,578,9461
TOTAL                                                                 _         ___
Units                           59,476    90,0861  113,5981   60,5921   56,760i 380,512
(Cumulative)                   59,476   149,5621  263,1601  323,752j  380,512_
I~~                            ~ ~       ~ ~~~ ._   __     1       I'
Perum % Age                     12.0%     22.2%      19.4%1   18.8%      18.4%
(Cumulative)                    12.0%     18.2%1   18.7%1   18.7%1   18.7%
Loan Value (Rp. Mill)         259,984   400,3071  540,592!  289,08211 367,361
(Cumulative)                  259,984   660,291' 1,200,8831 1,489,9651 1,557,326 _____
0 ~      _  _ -i  i   _      I  _   _ i _     _
Perum % Age                      7.1%     17.3%!    16.4%i   16.3%!    15.0% i
(Cumulative) % age               7.1%     13.3%1   14.7%i    15.0%1   15.0%1
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _  _   _ _   _   _   ._       I   _ _ _      I      ' _  _
Average Ln Value Total            4.37      4.441    4.76!     4.771      6.47 i
(Rp. Million)                                                       { _ __.___|
Average Ln value -----Private     4.62      4.73      4.94.     4.911      6.741
Rp. mill/unit                                                        1.        I
Average Ln value-----Perum        2.58      3.451     4.021      4.15,     5.281
Rp. mill/unit                                    _        I



6lNtHtV.                                                                   Table 4(iii)
_____  _______                         Houswng Sedor Loan (27254IND; Boowe  Monwy   me Level (1io  and 138)        _
Upto Rp. 50,000      5Rp. 50,000 - Rp. 100,000      Rp 100000 - Rp. 200,000   >Rp. 200,000 - Rp. 300,000  Rp. 300,000-              TotI
Year       Units       Value (Rp. MR) Units      Value (Rp. Mi) UnKs       Value (Rp. Mi)  Units     Value (Rp. MR) Units     Value (Rp MI) Units      Value (Rp. MiQ
1988_
_8           _ __                                 _        _ _ _         ___,                   ___.._                                                    __     _
Perurn          930         3,531       3,233        10,392       8,313         27,919      3,594        20,370       1,770        6,202     17,840        68,414
Private        2,771       12,992       9,442        44,596      31.582         145,329     20,439      100.028       5,727       28,216     69.961       331,161
1                       ____                                                                                       ____
TOTAL          3,701       16,523       12,675       54,968       39,895        173,248     24.033       120,398      7,497        34,418     87,801       399,575
jCJ89- ____
Perurn          861         3,754       2,996        11,230        7,642         29,079      5.185       21,646       1,640        6,590      18,324       72,299
Private        3,194       15,735      10,885        54,017       36,599        176,273     23,561      121,161       6,605       34,184      80,844      401,370
o0
TOTAL          4,055        19,489      13,881       65,247       44,241        205,352     28,745       142,807      8,245        40,774     99,168       473,669
Nine months results.



I ( \:DSic V-s                                                                   Table 4(iv)
Borrowers' Monthly Incorne Level (1988 and 1989)
LL7 L-                                                                                 X=-II-
Civil servants     _            Army                  SOE Employees              Privately employed           Informal sector
Year        Units      |Value (Rp Mil) Units        Value (Rp Mil) Units        Value (Rp Mil)  Units       Value (Rp. Mil) Units      Value (Rp. Mil)
1988
Perum      __7,061 ____24,372              5,840 __   20,558  _        2,071 ____      7,625    _   931           3,316        3,877        12,542
Private        17,163        80,759       21,803        104,480        15,306          70,265      10,388        50,480        5,401        25,176
TOTAL          24,224       105,131        27,643       125,038        17,377  __    77,890        11,319        53,796        9,278         37,718
1989
Perum          2,805         10,752        2,383 _        9,069   _     1,080  _       4,713 _       406          1,462        1,580         5,536
Private         7,460        36,228        9.481         46,861         6,541         31,174        4,624        22,644        2,346        11,292
TOTAL          1 10,265      46, 980       1 1,864       55,930         7,621          35,887       5,030        24,106        3,926         16,828
Nine months results.



I 'ITr,''  S                                                        Table 5
SUMMARY OF KEY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STUDIES
AGENCY COST (US$
Mill.)
STUDIES                                                                                  RESULTS
1. Urban Housing Market Study                     MOH                        National Housing Policy and
Strategy (NHPS) Document adopted
2. Land titling Study                             MOH              5.81
3. Housing Policy                                 MOH
Analysis & Development
4. Post-Construction Evaluation                   MOH
of Low-Cost Housing
INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING
1. Develop EDP Systems, Accounting                BTN              3.19      Improved Automated Loan
Systems, Audit Systems, Human Resource                                       Administration
Development
2. Management Information System                  MOH                        PC Based System Installed
3. Management Advisory Services                   PERUM            0.73
(computerization, marketing, construction
costing)



?AG:     1                                                            105
East Asia and Pacific Region
EAPrS39-TOTAL TIME (STAFFwEEKS) RECORCED BY FISCAL YEAR/ACTIV!TY                Table 6(i)
FCR PROJECT: 4INSPA156 NAME: HCUSING SECTOR
(DiscOunted Lccal HL art Ccnsultants at 4:1 ratio)
(CnLy Regular Budget)
(Net of Overtirre, excluding Trust Fund Consultants)
PRE-
TASK    FY82    :Y82    ;v83    Fy34    FY85    FYS5    FY37    FY83    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94   TOTAL
. ...  ...   ---     ....    -   -    ....     ...-    . ...    -- -    - -   _   - -    -  -
LEN                                         1.7     6.7                                                                           8.3
LENA                                               36.2                                                                         36.2
LENN                                                8.1                                                                           8.1
LEYP                              11.3    24.4    23.1                                                                           59.3
PCR
SPN                                                  .2    32.4    27.4    12.3       7.9    10.1       2.2      1.5             94.1
TOTAL
11.8    25.1    7'.3    32.4    27.4    12.3        7.9    10.1      2.2      1.5            206.0
RUN DATE: 09/C3/;3



106
Table 6(ii): Use of Bank Resources
StaQe of Proiect Cycle                          Actual No. of Staffweeks
Through  Appraisal   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  8.3
Appraisal through Board Approval  . . . . . . . . . . .    36.2
Board Approval through Effectiveness  . . . . . . . . .    6Z.4
Supervision   .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...     .  94.1
Missions
No. of    Days        Specialization    Performance     Types of
Month/Year          Persons   in Field    Renresented   l/ Ratinc Status2/Problems3/
Through Appraisal:
November 1986         5          13       ENG,FNA,CON,OPO          1
Appraisal Through:
June 1986             8          18       EGR,ECN,OPO              1
Supervision:
November 1987         2          19       EGR,ECN                  2
February 1988         4          22       EGR,FNA,CON              2
March 1989            6          11       EGR,FNA,OPO              2
August 1989           7          11       EGR,ECN,CON              2
November 1989         5          15       EGR,OPO,FNA              2
June 1990             9          26       FNA,ECN,CON,             2
October 1992          1          15       FNA
'I     ECO . Economist; FNA - Financial Analyst; EGR . Engineer;
OPO . Operations Officer
2/     1 = Problem-Free or minor problems; 2 - Moderate problems;
3 * Major problems
3/     M a Management; T a Technical



Annex 1(a)
BTN - INCOME STATEMENT
(In Billion Ruplahs)
________      1986     1987     1988      1989     1990     1991      1992
I=                  =                    =_ __                    __._
INCOME:            _       __.       _
Interest on Housing Loans               105.45   140.67 _  146.31   215.65   249.77   286.33   320.71
Interest on Short-term Investments       20.14    29.91    49.78    61.25    80.49   124.06   283.98
Other Income      L        j             16.28    16.86    22.53    29.17    27.16    31.47    33.12
TOTAL INCOME                 141.87   187.44   218.62   306.07   357.42   441.86   637.81
_ _XPENSES:                                                                                   _=
Interest on Borrowings                   53.96    73.43    98.13   138.55    187.82   243.38   432.27
Payroll & Related Exp.                   17.02    20.24    21.30    26.83    42.05    47.21      59.89
Materials                                 2.27     3.25      3.39     4.56    11.01    11.71     13.26
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__2_.4                                  49_0   _49_. _2_  __ __
Provisions for Bad Debts   __ _          15.75    33.03    26.97    27.46    49.04    49.52    32.40
Miscellaneous                             7.09    11.34    16.92    28.81    42.93    51.60    52.94
_______ TOTAL EXPENSES  _               96.09   141.29   166.71   226.21    332.85   403.42   590.76
9~~~~_     1                                   __  _._ __.._                         __               __
Profit Before Tax                        45.78    46.18    51.99    79.87    24.56    38.43    47.05
Less: Corporate Income Tax        _  __12 82       9.31      7 99 _  32.65    1.   _17a85    22.43
NET PROFIT                  32.96    36.84    43.92    47.21    13.20    20.57    24.62
Source: BTN - Annual Audited Reports                                                        I



Annex 1 (b)
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS FOR BTN
(In Billion Rupiah)
____ 1_1    1986                 1987     1988      1989     1990     1991      1992
SOURCES:
Net Income                    __          32.95    36.87    44.00 =47.22    13.20    20.57    24.62
Provisions for Bad Debts                   4.09     3.59    26.97    27.46    49.04    49.52    32.40
Non-Cash Charges                           1.24    -0.74      1.75     3.43      8.48     9.56    11.75
Cash Generations                          38.28    39.72    72.72    78.11     70.72    79.65    68.77
Collection of Loans                _       0.00     0.00    157.56   200.40   218.12   314.54   457.59
GOI Contributions                        66.85      6.30    77.50    86.66    10.13    10.26    88.20
Bl Liquidity Credits  _                  144.16   161 50    24.91  _74.90    51.49   109.40    72.58
World Bank Loan                            4.14     0.00   140.97    61.74       0.25     2.29      1.27
co      Saving Deposits (Tabanas)      __           0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
Other Sources                             18.26    23.93      0.00    50.11    138.49    85.17    42.56
Sub. Total           .__  _            233.41    191.73   400.94   473.81    418.48   521.66   662.20
Total Sources                         _ 271.69   231.45   473.66 _ 551.92   489.20   601.32   730.97
APPLICATIONS:
Loan Disbursements __                   317.82   199 06   381.60   540.5    270 22 _415.48    632.90
Short-term Investments                     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
Fixed Assets              .                3.07     3.20      3.07     7.52    51.25    61.87    73.17
Dividends to GOI    _    _    _            9.51    13.18     15.00    17.60    18.89      5.04     7.82
Repayments     _ -         _    . _        0.00     0.00     30.00    34.51    52.68   102.83    116.36
Other _                                - 16.50 __  6.36    26.75    81.25    20.75   142.12    46.21
Total   _      _  _                      346.90   221.80   456.42   681.47   413.79   727.34   876.46
Change in Working C5apital _            -75.20  _4657   _ 17.27  -129.55       75.42  -126.02  -145.48
Total Applications                       271.69   231.45   473.67   551.92   489.20   601.32   730.97
Source: BTN - Annual Audited Reports              .



Annex 1(c)
109
BALANCE SHEETS OF BTN
(In Billion Rupiahs)
._   _ _  _ _   _   _ ._        _  _   I                  I                                  '  1l  
_________________________   ________  1986   19871    19881     19891     19901     1991      1992
ASSETS:            ,                    _              _                      i
.     .__ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ I_ __   I __ _ _ _        ,  ~  I___ _  .___ _  ;__ _ _  _ _ _
CURRENT ASSETS:              I        1 _         1
Cash/In Bank                               82.72!    59.471   53.09      93.78    115.781    27.07     31.45
Short-term Investments        _           123.01,   226.23i   320.41    551.77    294.96   1,092.9   904.63
Receivable        r _                      12.441    17.531    30.231    35.87     63.481     44.9    43.27
Current Maturity   ____________             0.001    0.00!    85021  112.42    135.871    155.2   195.18
Total Current Assets  _       _           218.17    303.231   488.75    793.841   610.09i  1,320.0  1174.53
Housing Loans (net)  _                   1,330.53  1,525.861 1,750.551 2,114.541 2,160.20   2,209.4  2398.59
(Less) Current Maturity       _                             _        |  . |              _
Provision for Bad Debts      I
Net Loan Portfolio                                                            1
Net Fixed Asets                            10.551    13.22     15.071   19.81      45.81     53.89    101.40
Other Assets                               26.611    57.73     61.19i    77.111   191.05    304.69    376.13
Sub. Totall I                               37.161    70.951    76.26    96.921   236.861       358.58    477.53
TOTAL ASSETS                              256.66: 1,900.041 2,315.561 3,005.30: 3,007.15   3888.00   4050.66
!                      j_                              ___iIJ    
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY:
CURRENT LIABILITIES           _
Savings/Deposits                          216.56    260.04    334.80    724.41    501.36   1330.67   1280.38
Payable  I                                 48.391    38.54    147.02    122.38|    92.601    78.80     87.93
Current Maturity                           21.35     23.271    41.98    102.221    97.43     96.80     75.72
Other                                      77.301    80.221    18.731    38.451    36.90     45.04    105.90
Total Current Llabilities                 363.601   402.07    542.531   987.461   728.29'  1551.31   1549.93
LONG-TERM LIABILITIES                           L          _                  |
Bank Indonesia                            879.25!   922.611   912.361   891.28,   899.10    948.90    974.58
World Bank                                  0.001   112.201   253.161   314.901   315.15    286.80    276.74
Other                                      42.571   73.721    53.461  154.371   315.66;  391.86    483.32
Total LUT Liabilities   ,T ~              921.821 1,108.53  1,218.981 1,36055  1,529.91   1627.56   1734.64
EQUITY:  I         I _        _                   _        _                   _         _         _
Paid-in Capital    L                   .  238.851   306.00    383.601   470.19l   480.19j   490.19    600.00
Reserves I|I                 _         i   27.91     45.831    68.331    66.771    85.661    90.701     0.00
Retained Eamings   _3357!    37.491    44.001    47.22                             20.24      0.46     14.20
Total_Equity       i_r            __      300.331   389.32'  495.931   584.181   586.091   581.35   614.20
TOTAL UABILMES AND           _          1,585.75! 1,899.921 2,257.441 2,932.191 2,844.291 3,760.22  3,898.77
EQUITY    I                   _         _         _       I         I         I          _I
Source: BTN - Annual Audited Reports            I                             I _                  _



Ann-' e  d)
BTN PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
L__________________________                      __    1986  f  1987         19881  19891199011991                    1992
OPERATIONS
Gross Income/T. Assets                      SAR          10,9        8,6       8,9        9,5       9,9 _
|- ___ -____-____ __                   ACT _  _    8,7        10,1        9,7      10,3       12,2       11,8     __
Adm. CostVT. Assets    ___                  SAR           2.8        2,8       2,9        3,0  _    3,1  ___
|______ ._              _       ._________   ACT           1,6   _   1,8        1,8        1,9       2,7        2,3  _
Financial Cost/T. Assets                    SAR_          2,2 __   2,4         2,8        3,2   _ 3,6  __        _
|_- __     _--      ____-  ___          _ACT              ____           _        .______                         __ ._
Housing LoansfT. Assets                     SAR          84,6       85,6      86,4       86,5      85,7  _         _
|_________    -___________ -__              ACT          85,2       77,5      79,3       72,6   _  72,8       58,8   __
Loan Collection/Housing Loans               SAR           1,6  __  1,5         1,5        1,5       1,9 _
ACT
Interest Income/LT Borrowing                SAR       _  9,3         8,4       8,7 ___ 9,6         10,3
i ___._. ___ ___   .         . ACT _   12,0       14.0      12,5       17,1      18,0       19,6 _
Financial Cost/LT Borrowing             |   SAR           4,2        4,7       5,3        6,0       6,7
ACT
Net Interest Spread                         SAR       _  5,2         3,7       3,4        3,5__    3,6
ACT__
PROFITABILITY        ___
Income Before Fin Cost/T. Assets            SAR           7,4        5,l       4,6        4,6       4,5
ACT
Profit Before Tax/T. Equity-                SAR        _ 15,7 _      8,4       6,8        6,0       5,2
ACT          15,2      11,9       10,5      12,6  __  4,2         6,6
NetProfit/T. Equi                           SAR          10,2        5,5       4,4  __   3,9        3,4
ACT          11,0       9,5        8,9 ___7,5           2,3       3,5
FINANCIAL POSITION
Current Ratios                          |  SAR         _  1,6        1,9       2,2        2,7       3,0 _  _           __
_____    _______             |ACT           _ 0,6        0,8  --_  0,9        0,8      _0,8        0,9  ___
Debt Service Ratios   _                     SAR           2,0        1,6       1,5        1,4       1,4
ACT                                                              ______
Debt/Equity Ratios                          SAR           3,1'       3,1       3,2        3,0       2,9    _
______._         -      ==                             = |ACT  __________



Annex 1(e)
BTN - MORTGAGE ARREARS MONItrORING
( RE. 000 000 )
YEAR            TOTAL           GROUP I         GROUP 11         GROUP III    GROUP IV
VALUE__I                      _                               I
1988                100.74            22.77            13.20            27.48            37.29
1989 _    _         163.51          _ 10.62            16.12    _       44.70  __ __ 92.07
1990                100.80            12.91           24.76             19.12 _44.01
_ 1991              113.10            11.79            19.06            10.60            71.65
1992                108.59             9.74            18.27            11.95            68.63
Sept.'93              126.95            25.20            23.07            11.09            67.59
NOI I
I(8S     -   I QSQ, , -   (1roti.i   I  2  -.  flm(1III
(iroupl) 11  =  -1 -   ( onlihs
G r ( L   I I    = I  7  17 n sllis
Group IV =[ IO IS IS montIhS
I09(J - I ()(, - GIoLIup I = I - 3 monlhk
Grou) II = I - 12 iioiIlis
G rLIu III  13 - 21 montIhs
(roLIp) IV = Liu) lo 21 mI rilohs



112                                    Annex 2(a)
PERUMNAS - INCOME STATEMENT
19861   19871   19881   19891   19901   1991    1992
REVENUE            l         l
Sales Revenue                  113.191  43.91   24.81  128.64
Other Revenue                    2.041   4.01    6.23    326
115.231  47.921  31.041 131.90
Costs:             '         I       I
Cost of Sales                   84.281  33.97   22.651 111.81
Gross Profit                 |  30.95   13.951   8.39   20.09
I_      _ _             l                .__ _
EXPENSES           I                 j
Personnel I                      5.18f   6.32    5.14    7.02
Other                        L   8.591   4.01    5.30    9.51
13.771   10.33   10.441  16.53
.                        _     j  i_              _
Net Income                      17.181   3.621  -2.05    3.56
Non-Operating Income             0.001   4.291   3.72    3.39
Income Before Tax               17.18    7.911    1.671   6.95
Provision for Tax                6.171   1.621   0.00o   2.21
,Income After Tax                1101    629    1.671  4_74            _        _



EA3 COVENANT DATABASE     PAGE      2 OF REPORT SOD40A  RUN DATE 12/27/93
INDONESIA
REVIEW OF LOAN COVENANTS
LOAN/CREDIT: L-2725 PROJECT: HOUSING SECTOR LOAN EFF: 12/16/86 APP: 06/23/86 SECTOR: URBAN WATER
(AS OF 12/27/93 1
AGREEMENT
---------               TYPE OF      UPDATE  CUR ST
SECTION               COVENANT    DATE    CODE    DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT                          CURRENT COVENANT STATUS DESCRIPTION
PA
ART. 4.03(A).          FS        05/26/89       4  LIABILITIES NOT LESS THAN 1.5.                   THAN 1. AS OF DEC. 31, 1989, IT IS APPROX.
0.80. HOWEVER, BTN HAS NOT HAD DIFFICULTY
MEETING ITS CURRENT OBLIGATIONS.
ART. 4.03(B)-(C).     F5         11/30/87       2  (PA W/BTN) FORECASTS TO BE PREPARED - IF         IN COMPLIANCE.
RATIO IN ART. 4.03(A) NOT FORESEEN FOR CUR-
RENT AND NEXT FY, THEN BTN TO TAKE ALL STEPS
TO MEET REQUIREMENTS.
ART. 4.04(A).         F5         11/30/87       2  (PA W/BTN) NO DEBT IF AFTER INCURRENCE OF        IN COMPLIANCE.
SUCH DEBT, DEBT/EQUITY RATIO IS GREATER
THAN 6:1.
*""STATUS CODES         * .........COVENANT TYPE CODES ...............           ...............COVENANT TYPE CODES*..................
1-UNAVAILABLE           INSTITUTION-  I-CREATE/REVISE/UPDATE ORGANI-                        F4-SELF-FINANCING RATIO
2-IN COMPLIANCE         NAL:             ZATIONS;IMPROVE MGMT 6 MIS;                        F5-DEBT/EQUITY RATIO; DEBT SERVICE RATIO
3-PARTLY COMPLIED                        AGREEMENTS BETWEEN OR WITH                         F6-PRICING OF PRODUCTS
4-NOT IN COMPLIANCE                      AGENCIES                                           F7-PROVISION OF LOCAL FUNDS
5-TO BE WAIVED/DELETED  MANAGER-      MI-SUPERVISION OF IMPLEMENTA-                         F8-PREPARE SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
6-NO LONGER RELEVANT    IAL:             TION (PLAN/ACTION/REPORTING                        F9-LEVEL OF OUTSTANDING ARREARS
7-TO BE AMENDED                          INCL. PROCUREMENT ACTION,                         FIO-ASSET REVALUATION; DEPRECIATION
8-NOT YET DUE                            DEVELOP ACCOUNTING SYSTEM)              TECHNIC-   Ti-CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
.........-------- .............       M2-ADEQUATE TRAINING POGRAM                CAL:       T2-LAND ACQUISITION & MAPPING
M3-WORK PROGRAM/BUDGET PREP'D                         T3-SITE SELECTION                                                      -
I-.
FINANC-      Fl-SIGNING OF SUBSIDIARY                              T4-DETAILED ENGINEERING
IAL:            AGREEMENT                                          T5-ENSURE 0 & M PLAN & FUNDING
F2-RATES OF RETURN                                    T6-ENVIRONMENT
F3-COST RECOVERY & INT. RATES              OTHERS:   OTH-OTHERS
.............................................            ............................................................................. .........................
0 0
m m
0
._ 
O 3



114                                       Annex 2(b)
PERUMNAS - SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
I  |      ;              19861   19871   19881   19891   19901   19911T99
. _aI a
SOURCES:                                           ___1                                 ______
Net Income          I                        11.01    6.291    1.67     4.741         __
Non-Cash Charges  I                           0.47F   0.661    0.55]    5.041         1
Other Income                             p   0.131    0.74;   0.061   0.451           !
From Operations                              1 1.61 i 7.691I  2.281  10.231           1
L ~   ~       ~      ~             _I_       _ _            _     _    _
From Long-Term Loans                         12.08!    8.801   13.921  27.461         1
From GovemmentlBl!                            0.15!    0.361    0.20    0.00          _
Other                                         0.00i   0.00i    0.00     o.           1
__ _ __ _   __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ,  ____1 _   I    __ _ _ _ I  I  I _ _ _ _   I _ __ _
TOTAL SOURCES                                23.841   16.851  16.40i  37.691
USES:               i                                      I        I '                _        _____
Fixed Assets                                  0.391    1.45i    1.04    1.49!         I
Addition to Receivable                        3.211   2.401   0.001  22.811           i
Other                                         0.151    0.261    0.00i  17.911         1
-423.751   4.11!    1.04    a2 2a1
i__ _          I         __                                __ i_21 i_                 __ I_   _!
Change in Working Capital                    20.091  12.74i   15.361   -4.521 
I                                  I                  ia          ~           ta
TOTAL USES          i                       23.84!   16.851   16.401  37.691
I~uc:  EUNA      nna  udtdR  ap                  I I                        I
Source: PERUMNAS - Annual Audited Reports         i         ____  ____    _______   ___



115                                  Annex 2(c)
_ _ _I  i__     _    _   _   _    _   _     i.                     I   I            I
_______                        ~~~~~~~~~~1986 i  19871   19881   19891   19901  19911  1992
_ _ _   _ _ _ _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _   _   I. _  _   I  _ _ _ _ _ _   I _ _   _ _ _  _   _
ASSETS I__        ___                                           I ji_
Cash/Bank                                 43.171  52.40i  16.74'  49.011 
Receivable                                53.79t  34.901  17.041  37.671 
Land/Construction in Progress            165.01 j 179.831 264.801 221.041
Other    f                                 4.371   6.911    6.101    9.621
Total Current                          ! 266.341 274.041 304.681  317.341
Non-Current                               12.601   14.871  14.711  18.54
i_     _ _    _  _    _  _     _  _ _       I      !_   _ _ [ _  _    __
Fixed Assets                               4.22!   5.241   6.101   7.01
Other Assets                               1.631   1.051   0.681   14.74
_____                                                  -   I                     z
TOTAL ASSETS                             284.791 295.201 326.171 357.631
LIABILITIES & EQUITY                           !                _
Accrued Expenses                          21.881  22.691  24.12   25.21 _
Payable  !                                19.001  14.261   9.451   9.341
Home Buyer Advances                        6.371   5.041  18.901  21.651
Other Liabilities  .                       1.571   1.591   5.791   15.40
Total Current      [48.82 -I-43.581[  58.261  71.601________   ___
____I __       _
Long-Term Loans                           21.90   30.701  44.621  72.081
Long-Term Other                            0.001   0.001   0.00i   0.001
I       I       I
TOTAL LIABILITIES                         70.721  74.281  102.881  143.68
EQUITY                                 '                 _       _               _
Paid-In Capital                          200.25: 200.62' 200.821 200.821 
Retained Eamings                          12.821   18.12,  20.821  12.111
TOTAL EQUITY                             213.071 218.74  221.641 212.931
TOTAL LIABILITIESEU EQUITY               283.79  293.02i 324.521 356.611
Source: PERUMNAS - Annual Audited Reports      I                                         _



EA3 COVENANT DATABASE      PAGE      1 OF REPORT SOD40A  RUN DATE 12/27/93
INDONESIA
REVIEW OF LOAN COVENANTS
LOAN/CREDIT: L-2725  PROJECT: HOUSING SECTOR LOAN  EFF: 12/16/86  APP: 06/23/86  SECTOR: URBAN WATER
(AS OF 12/27/93
AGREEMENT
---------                TYPE OF      UPDATE  CUR ST
SECTION                COVENANT    DATE    CODE    DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT                            CUlRRENT COVENANT STATUS DESCRIPTION
LOAN
ART. 3.02(B)           Fl         11/38/07       2  SUBSIDIARY LOAN AGREEMENT WITH BTN.               IN COMPLIANCE.
ART. 3.02(C)           Fl         11/30/87       2  SUBSIRIARY LOAN AGREEMENT WITH PER;lMNAS.         IN COMPLIANCE.
ART. 3.05(A)           Ml         07/31/89       2  BY 06/30/88 FURNISH STUDY RECOMMENDATIONS         IN COMPLIANCE.
(PART D.1), PREPARE & CARRY OlJT ACTION PLAN.
ART. 3.05(B)           Ml         07/31/89       2  BY 09/30/88 FURNISH UTUDY RECOMMEN8ATIONS         IN COMPLIANCE.
(PART D.2) PREPARE & CARRY OUT ACTION PLAN.
ART. 3.05(C)           Ml         07/31/R9       2  BY 02/28/89 FURNISH STUDY RECOMMENDATIONS         IN COMPLIANCE.
(PART D.3 - HOUSING MARKET, LAND TITLING,
LOW-COST HOUSING STUDIES), PREPARE AND
CARRY OUT ACTION PLAN.
ART. 6.01              Fl         11/30/87       2  A) SUBSIDIARY LOAN AGREEMENT WITH BTN.            IN COMPLIANCE.
B) SUBSIDIARY LOAN AGREEMENT WITH PERUMNAS.
C) BTN HAS EMPLOYED CONSULTANTS FOR PART B.
D) BOARD BTN APPROVED STATEMENT OF POLICY.
E) BTN HAS ENTERED INTO AGREEMENT IN 2.07
OF BTN PROJECT AGREEMENT.
PA
ART. 2.06.             Ml         08/30/90       3  (PA W/BTN) CARRY OUT INSTITUTIONAL ACTION         PARTIAL COMPLIANCE.  LOAN MANAGEMENT IS NOT
PROGRAM IN SCHEDULE 2.                           SATISFACTORY.
ART. 2.06..            Ml         09/30/87       2  (PA W/PERUMNAS) PERUMNAS TO CARRY OUT IN-         IN COMPLIANCE.
STITUTIONAL ACTION PROGRAM IN SCHEDULE
TO AGREEMENT.
ART. 2.07.             1          09/30/87       2  (PA W/BTN) ENTER INTO AGREEMENT WITN BI RE-    IN COMPLIANCE.                                                       a
LATING TO PROVISION OF MORTGAGE LOANS BY BTN
WHICH SHALL INCLUDE HI COMMITMENTS FOR 1986
THROUGH 1990 IN AN AMOUNT OF RP. 178.2
BILLION.
ART. 4.02(A).          F5         11/30/87       2  (PA W/BTN) NO DEBT UNLESS REASONABLE FORECAST  IN COMPLIANCE.
OF BTN REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES SHOW NET RE-
VENUES EQUAL TO AT LEAST 1.2 TIMES ESTIMATED
DEBT SERVICE REQUIREMENT.
ART. 4.03(A).          F5         05/26/89       4  (PA W/BTN) RATIO CURRENT ASSETS TO CURRENT        THE CURRENT RATIO HAS GENERALLY BEEN LESS
.-"STATUS CODES          * .........COVENANT TYPE CODES                            *--------------COVENANT TYPE CODES-..................
1-UNAVAILABLE            INSTITUTION-  I-CREATE/REVISE/UPDATE ORGANI-                          F4-SELF-FINANCING RATIO
2-IN COMPLIANCE          NAL:             ZATIONS;IMPROVE MGMT & MIS;                          F5-DEBT/EQUITY RATIO; DEBT SERVICE RATIO
2-PARTLY COMPLIED                         AGREEMENTS BETWEEN OR WITH                           F6-PRICING OF PRODUCTS
4-NOT IN COMPLIANCE                       AGENCIES                                             F7-PROVISION OF LOCAL FUNDS
5-TO BE WAIVED/DELETED  MANAGER-       Ml-SUPERVISION,OF IMPLEMENTA-                           F8-PREPARE SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
6-NO LONGER RELEVANT    IAL:              TION (PLAN/ACTION/REPORTING                          F9-LEVEL OF OUTSTANDING ARREARS
7-TO BE AMENDED                           INCL. PROCUREMENT ACTION,                           F10-ASSET REVALUATION; DEPRECIATION
8-NOT YET DUE                             DEVELOP ACCOUNTING SYSTEM)               TECHNIC-   Ti-CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS                                                  >
M2-ADEQUATE TRAINING POGRAM                 CAL:        T2-LAND ACQUISITION & MAPPING                                         a7 :
M3-WORK PROGRAM/BUDGET PREP'D                           T3-SITE SELECTION                                                      X X
FINANC-      Fl-SIGNING OF SUBSIDIARY                                T4-DETAILED ENGINEERING                                                   X
IAL:            AGREEMENT                                            T5-ENSURE 0 & M PLAN & FUNDING                                            Lo
F2-RATES OF RETURN                                     T6-ENVIRONMENT                                                         o
F3-COST RECOVERY & INT. RATES               OTHERS:   OTH-OTHERS                                                              pt
............................................               ..................................................



EA3 COVENANT DATABASE       PAGE     2 OF REPORT SOD40A  RUN DATE 12/27/93
INDONESIA
REVIEW OF LOAN COVENANTS
LOAN/CREDIT: L-2725  PROJECT: HOUSING SECTOR LOAN  EFF: 12/16/86  APP: 06/23/66  SECTOR: URBAN WATER
(AS OF 12/27/93 I
AGREEMENT
---------                TYPE OF      UPDATE  CUR ST
SECTION                COVENANT    DATE    CODE    DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT                              CURRENT COVENANT STATUS DESCRIPTION
PA
ART. 4.03(A).          F5         05/26/89        4  LIABILITIES NOT LESS THAN 1.5.                     THAN 1.  AS OF DEC. 31, 1989, IT IS APPROX.
0.80. HOWEVER, BTN HiAS NOT HAD DIFFIC-ULTY
MEETING ITS CURRENT OBLIGATIONS.
ART. 4.03(B)-(C).      F5         11/30/87        2  (PA W/BTN) FORECASTS TO BE PREPARED - IF           IN COMPLIANCE.
RATIO IN ART. 4.03(A) NOT FORESEEN FOR CUR-
RENT AND NEXT FY, THEN BTN TO TAKE ALL STEPS
TO MEET REQUIREMENTS.
ART. 4.04(A).           F5        11/30/87        2  (PA W/BTN) NO DEBT IF AFTER INCURRENCE OF          IN COMPLIANCE.
SUCH DEBT, DEBT/EQUITY RATIO IS GREATER
THAN 6:1.
--STATUS CODES           * *-*--'-'-COVENANT TYPE CODES ................             ..............COVENANT TYPE CODES      *------------------
1-UNAVAILABLE             INSTITUTION-  I-CREATE/REVISE/UPDATE ORGANI-                           F4-SELF-FINANCING RATIO
2-IN COMPLIANCE          NAL:              ZATIONS;IMPROVE MGMT & MIS;                           F5-DEBT/EQUITY RATIO; DEBT SERVICE RATIO
3-PARTLY COMPLIED                          AGREEMENTS BETWEEN OR WITH                            F6-PRICING OF PRODUCTS
4-NOT IN COMPLIANCE                        AGENCIES                                              F7-PROVISION OF LOCAL FUNDS
5-TO BE WAIVED/DELETED  MANAGER-       MI-SUPERVISION OF IMPLEMENTA-                             FB-PREPARE SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
6-NO LONGER RELEVANT    IAL:               TION (PLAN/ACTION/REPORTING                           F9-LEVEL OF OUTSTANDING ARREARS
7-TO BE AMENDED                            INCL. PROCUREMENT ACTION,                            FIO-ASSET REVALUATION; DEPRECIATION
8-NOT YET DUE                              DEVELOP ACCOUNTING SYSTEM)                TECHNIC-   Ti-CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
....................       -     -     K----2-ADEQUATE TRAINING POGRAM               CAL:        T2-LAND ACQUISITION & MAPPING
M3-WORK PROGRAM/BUDGET PREP'D                            T3-SITE SELECTION
FINANC-       Fl-SIGNING OF SUBSIDIARY                                 T4-DETAILED ENGINEERING
IAL:             AGREEMENT                                             T5-ENSURE 0 & M PLAN & FUNDING
F2-RATES OF RETURN                                       T6-ENVIRONMENT
F3-COST RECOVERY & INT. RATES                OTHERS:   OTH-OTHERS
* -*** ...... *.---.......... ........ -.      -        -. ................. ........       ......... ... ....-
0
N
foj



118
Chart 1
BTN   mortgages by developer' (table  4  (ii)
.   ,               ~     ~ ~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I,
1986     1987      1988!    19891      19901    1991j
PERUMNAS                 39528      7158.   20025.   22002!    11382!   10440
loan value (RP bill.)     112.5,     18.5     69.1'     88.41     47.2:    55.1
aver. loan/unit (Rp.mtll.)  2.85.    2.58     3.45      4.021     4.15!     5.28
_               ,                  I        ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~I .j
PRIVATE                  47112    52318    70061    91596    49210'   46320
loan value (Rp. bill.)    357.1    241 5    331.2;    452.2    241.81    312.3
aver. ioan/unit(Rp. mill.)  7.58.  4 62      4.73,    4.941      4.91i     6.74
i      , ~ ~         ~ ~~~~~ I  !
Housing production by developer
. K      . ~',100000l
~80000     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
L60000oo         PERUMNAS 
"40000
~2000    011 PRIVATE
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~ 200
L0
1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991



119
Chart 2
IBTN    Fund Mobilization              (Annex  1(b))
19861    19871    19881    19891    19901    19911        19921
GOI/BI contnbution    211.11    167.71    102.41    161.51    61.6!    119.71    160.81
IBRD             I      4.11       0 1     141      6 = 1.71   0.21      2.3!      1.31
Deposits/Others        18.31     23.91       oj     50.11    138.51     85.21     42.68
loan coil./ cash       38.31     39.71   230.31   278.51    288.81      3941    526.41
BTN Fund sources
800T
700 
c 800 }                                           11111 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~loan coil.! cash
-500 +EDeposits/Others
400i
300                                                                ZIBRO
= 300tLe1
200t       /                                                        GOI/BI contrbution
100                          -
Go  0      0             CN
Go    00    ao        a              a
I        I      .                     i ~ ~         ~ ~       ~ ~      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  j   I
Note:
The bulk of loan collections accounted for loans made prior to the
project (Ln. 2725-IND).
Annex l(b) provides the details.



