Do_ument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
a~' So s pv o B-z-'
Report No. P-4221-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt275 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
June 2, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00   =   Rp 1,100
Rp 1 million   =   US$909
FISCAL YEAR
GOI: April 1 - March 31
State Banks: January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
i square meter (m2)       =      10.8 squ re feet
] hectare (ha)            =      10,000 m  or 2.471 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BI            -    Bank Indonesia (the Central Bank)
BKPN          -    National Housing Policy Board
BPKP          -    State Audit Agency
BTN           -    Bank Tabungan Negara (a State Savings and Housing Bank)
GOI           -    Government of Indonesia
Kampung       -    Densely populated informal settlement areas
KIP           -    Kampung Improvement Program
KPR           -    Public Homeownership Credit
LPPI          -    Institution for the Development of Banking in Indonesia
PERUMNAS      -    National Urban Development Corporation
REPELITA      -    National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74;
Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84; Renelita IV,
1984-89; Repelita V, 1979-94)



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Republic of Indonesia.
Beneficiary Agencies:     Bank Tabungan Negara (BTN), and National Urban
Development Corporation (PERUMNAS).
Loan Amount:              US$275 million equivalent.
Loan Terms:               Payable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
On-Lending Terms:          The Government of Indonesia (GOI) would on-Lend
US$268.9 million equivalent to BTN for mortgage
financing at a fixed interest rate of 11.5Z with a
repayment term of 20 years, including 5 years of
grace. GOI would bear the foreign exchange and
interest rate fluctuation risks of the Bank loan.
The end-user interest rates for mortgage loans would
be 9-15Z with a 20 year repayment term.
Project Description:      The project would assist GOI in meeting its
objectives to: (a) expand access to housing finance
for low and middle income househ4olds; (b) reduce
overall subsidies and target the remaining subsidies,
to the lowest income groups; (c) reduce the reliance
of the housing finance system on government funds
and introduce new instruments for resource
mobilization; (d) stimulate the production of more
low-cost housing by both public and private
developers; (e) generate employment at low foreign
exchange cost; and (f) strengthen the key
institutions in the housing sector, namely BTN and
PERUMNAS, and assist the Office of the State
Minister for Housing in developing and monitoring
housing sector policies and programs. The project
comprises: (a) a credit line to BTN which would be
used to finance a share of total mortgage lending
commitments (195,000 housing units) during the last
three years of the Fourth National Five-Year
Development Plan (Repelita IV); and (b) technical
assistance and equipment for BTN, PERUMNAS and the
Office of the State Minister for Housing.
Project Risks:            The risks associated with this project include:
(a) the possibility that institution-building
efforts at BTN could be prolonged and consequently
Thb document ha a restncted disWibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutieL Its contents may not otherwise be disckmed without World Bank: authorization.



- ii -
BTN's effectiveness in performing the functions
assigned to it under the project would be reduced;
(b) the risk that BTN could not fully implement
GOI's new policies regarding the size distribution
of units and that its recent lending patterns would
continue; (c) the risk that because of loan
processing and other problems, PERUMNAS' delivery
capacity would be limited; and (d) the risk that
higher income groups would appropriate the housing
targetted for lower income groups, due to strong
demand and limited overall supply of housing. These
risks have all been taken into account in designing
the project and are believed to be manageable
through the proposed BTN Policy Statement, BTN and
PERUMNAS Institutional Action Programs, technical
assistance and the proposed periodic reviews of the
program.
Estimated Costs:
Local        Foreign         Total
(US$ million) - _
Housing Program                               962.1         240.5        1,202.6
Technical Assistance and Equipment              2.9           3.2            6.1
Total Project Cost /a                   965.0          243.7         1208.7
Financing Plan:
Beneficiary Downpayments                   272.7             -           272.7
Government Budget                          200.0             -           200.0
Bank Indonesia                              162.0            -           162.0
BTN                                        299.0             -           299.0
Bank loan                                   31.3          243.7          275.0
Total                                   965.0          243.7        1,208.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY          1987      1988      1989      1990      1991
(USs million)
Annual                            22.0      88.0      96.3      48.9      19.8
Cumulative                        22.0    110.0      206.3    255.2      275.0
Rate of Return: 15%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 6053 -IND, dated May 29, 1986.
Map: IBRD No. 19760.
/a   Including taxes and duties estimated at US$60 million equivalent.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR
THE HOUSING SECTOR
1.        I submit the following report and reconmmendation on a proposed
Housing Sector loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$275
million. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate. The Government of Indonesia (GOI)
would on-lend US$268.9 million equivalent to Bank Tabungan Negara for mortgage
financing at a fixed interest rate of 11.5: with a repayment term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace. The GOI would bear the foreign exchange and
interest rate fluctuation risks of the Bank loan. The end-user interest rates
for mortgage loans would be 9-15% with a 20 year repayment term. The
remaining US$6.1 million equivalent would be provided to BTN, PERUMNAS and che
Office of the State Minister for Housing for technical assistance and related
equipment.
PART I - THE ECONOMYW
2.        An economic report entitled "Indonesia:  Adjusting to Lower Oil
Revenues" (No. 6201-IND, dated May 20, 1986) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 27, 1986. Annex I gives selected social and economic
indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an arch'pelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion km . It now has a population of over 158 million, growing at about 2.2Z
p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two thirds of the population lives on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4% p.a. The 1983 estimate of GNP y7r capita is
US$560, which places Indonesia among middle-income countries.-/
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on a Highway
Maintenance and Betterment Project (No. P-4330-IND), circulated under
cover of R86-144, dated May 28, 1986.
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



-2-
Macroeconomic DeveLopments and Resource Management
4.        During the 1970s, the Indonesian economy grew at almost 8% p.a.
This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expenditures, total
investment and savings. Following the turbulence of the mid-1960s, the
Government of Indonesia took effective action to restore macroeconomic
stability, liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide
incentives for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant
external influence was the huge expansion, and significant variability, in
foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net earnings from oil and LNG exports
rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in 1980/81, when the
current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil and LNG also pro-
vided about 60Z of budget revenues by 1980/81 and helped finance a sustained
increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures helped foster diversified
growth. Of particular note has been the support for agriculture through
inves;ment in infrastructure and support services.  This supported an
agricultural growth rate of almost 4% p.a. and led to the recent achievement
of self-sufficiency in rice. Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth rate
during the 1970s (of about 14% p.a.), although this was from a very low base
and predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic market.
5.        Since 1981, the economy has been buffeted by unfavorable external
developments, especially for oil. Accordingly, the external terms of trade
have deteriorated by 18% over the past four years. In response, the
Government acted decisively to stabilize the economy and provide a basis for
longer-term structural adjustment. Related measures included: (a) restraints
on public investment and reductions in budget subsidies; (b) maintenance of a
flexible exchange rate policy (following a major devaluation in March 1983);
(c) wide-ranging structural reforms in the taxation and financial systems; and
(d) a major reorganization of customs, ports and shipping operations. These
measures have had a positive impact on the balance of payments, with the
current account deficit reduced from US$7.2 billion (8.5% of GNP) in 1982/83
to an estimated US$2.0 billion (2.6% of GNP) in 1985/86. Domestic inflation
has also been reduced to less than 5% in 1985. However, this stabilization
process has involved a heavy cost in terms of lower investment and growth.
Since 1981, GDP growth has averaged only 2.6% p.a.; adjusting for population
growth and the terms of trade loss, per capita incomes have fallen. The
industrial sector has been patticularly hard hit, with low rates of capacity
utilization and emerging financial problems in many enterprises.
6.        The economic outlook for Indonesia is dominated by the recent
collapse and uncertain prospects for world oil markets. Preliminary
indicators are that Indonesia's net oil/LNG export earnings could fall by
almost 60% during 1986/87. Because of the cautious management strategy
adopted by the Government in recent years, Indonesia is better placed than
most oil exporters to cushion the short-term impact of lower oil revenues.
External reserves stand at over US$10 billion (equivalent to nine months of
imports) and another US$2 billion is available in undrawn commercial
credits. However, the Government is still legitimately concerned about the
impact of a prolonged shortfall in oil revenues. Despite tight controls over
public external borrowing in recent years, the debt service ratio had reached
25% by 1985 and will rise further (even without new borrowing) over the next
few years. The scope, therefore, for additional borrowing to cover the
resource gap is limited. Instead, the Government has opted for further



- 3 -
cutbacks in government expenditure. Already, an austerity budget has been
announced for 1986/87, with total expenditure budgeted to decline by 7Z (22Z
for development expenditure). With continued prudence and some recovery in
oil prices, the current account deficit could be brought back to less than 3Z
of GNP over the next three years. However, economic Performance would remain
highly constrained, with GDP growth close to 22 p.a. and declining per capita
incomes.
Policies for Growth and Adjustment
7.        As already noted, the Indonesian Government, faced with lower oil
revenues, is acting to maintain balance of payments and domestic financial
stability through demand restraint. However, over the medium term,
Indonesia's ability to achieve its goals of sustainable growth with equity
will depend crucially on the skill with which it manages the transition from
oil dependency toward a more diversified, semi-industrial economy. Some of
the elements of this strategy, including structural reforms in the taxation
and financial systems, are already in place. However, successful adjustment
will require continued action in three key policy areas: management of the
public investment program (and improvements in the regulatory/policy environ-
ment for private investment), rationalization of the external trade regime and
development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards regional
development and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the
import content of investment while still meeting the Government's equity and
employment objectives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are estab-
lished to facilitate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment
program. Possible options include preparation of multiyear expenditure plans
(at least for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high
priority projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection proce-
dures. The Government is also considering ways to improve project implemen-
tation, so that investment returns can be realized more promptly.  Given the
budgetary constraints, it is expected that the private sector will be called
upon to play an increasingly important role in capital formation.  To
encourage this process, the Government recently announced simplifications in
investment approval procedures and a major internal reorganization of the
Investment Coordinating Board. These measures were followed, in May 1986, by
a package of regulatory reforms to make Indonesia more attractive to foreign
investments.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has cLearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist
measures and, most important, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and exchange
rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of export promo-
tion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready access to
finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing capacity.



Most recently, in May 1986, the Government announced a policy package designed
to ensure that exporters would have access 'o raw materials and intermediate
inputs at international prices. However, over the longer term, there is no
effective substitute for comprehensive trade reform. On the import side,
Indonesia's trade regime has historically been characterized by a predilection
for high tariffs and quantitative restrictions. In March 1985, the Government
announced a major reduction in the range and level of nominal import
tariffs. However, other actions including increased use of import quotas/bans
and regulations requiring higher local content in production have served to
promote some potentially costly and uneconomic investments which could prove
counterproductive to the export drive.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer '~erm, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For examplL. the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed among its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7Z of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the natur-
al increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside those of
their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the Other
Islands, of whom one million were resettled through the official transmigra-
tion program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita con-
sumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output. This
is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 572 to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid



in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, there was
a significant rise in real agricultural wages around 1980-81 associated with
the sharp increase in rice output and booming overall economic growth.
Increases in rural nonagricultural and urban wages also occurred at the
beginning of the 1980s. Despite the slowdown in economic growth and stabili-
zation measures since 1982, the limited available evidence suggests that wages
and incomes have held up, partly as a consequence of continued agricultural
growth.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. The labor force is expected to grow
at about 2.3Z p.a. over the next decade, while economic growth will be lower
than in the 1970s. The resultant squeeze in the labor market could lead to
stagnant or declining labor income, especially in rural areas and the urban
informal sector. Given the balance of payments constraint facing the country,
Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the pattern of economic
growth, and in particular the extent of labor absorption in the commodity-
producing sectors. Although over the long term the structural shift in
employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in
nonfarm activities. This will require continued priority to agriculture in
the form of supportive pricing and investment policy, with some shift in
emphasis toward the Other Islands. On Java, attention will need to be paid tG
issues of agricultural diversification and the pace of mechanization. With
respect to the industrial sector, the development of an efficient, relatively
export-oriented pattern of production can also contribute to significant labor
absorption in the medium to long term, especially in Java; this wili involve a
continuing major role for small-scale firms. If a favorable evolution of the
employment situation is to occur, there will also need to be an appropriate
pattern of public expenditure and supportive policies for the urban informal
sector; finally, the transmigration program can make a substantial contribu-
tion, provided it is closely coordinated with complementary agricultural
inve3tment programs, in tree crops, wate- resources and livestock development.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achie.ed and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now abour 35%. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to De a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a
substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole system.
In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities, notably
at the subdistrict level, but continued investment and an improvement in
quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75%,
respectively, for 1990.



-6-
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term, despite
the impact of lower oil revenues. Even so, continued resource transfers from
abroad will be essential to sustain modest GDP growth (2% p.a.) over the next
three years. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$4.8 billion p.a. from 1986/87 to
1988/89, including about US$2.4 billion p.a. of official development assis-
tance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the Government's record of economic management is good and a
comfortable cushion of external reserves has been rebuilt over the past two
years.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1985 is estimated at
US$28 billion, with an additional US$15 billion of undisbursed commitments.
Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance (including
nonconcessional multilateral aid) accounts for 48% and obligations at variable
interest rates for only 21%; there is no short-term public debt. The average
maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1985 is estimated at 16 years. The
Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudently. Until 1981,
Indonesia had succeeded in maiataining its public debt service ratio, based on
gross exports, at below 10%. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export
receipts over the past three years, the ratio rose to about 20% in 1985. With
the projected levels and composition of borrowings and export earnings,
Indonesia's public debt service ratio would rise to about 28% in 1986 and then
gradually decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, the total
debt service ratio would rise from 25% in 1985 to around 33% in 1986 and then
decline again. While debt management will require careful attention in the
coming years, the projected debt service ratios are not excessive by inter-
national standards.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 3/
17.       As of March 31, 1986, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling US$896.49 million (less cancellations) and 107 Bank loans amounting to
US$8,149.54 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled
US$163.2 million. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and
IFC investments as of March 31, 1986. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was
13.1%, and the Bank's share of debt service 10.3%, compared with 13.3% and
7.9%, respectively, in 1982. From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia
was made through IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness follow-
ing the commodity and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's
3/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Highway
Maintenance and Betterment Project (No. P-4330-IND), circulated under
cover of R86-144 and dated May 28, 1986.



- 7 -
lending in the remainder of the 19709 W2S through IBRD loans, with a modest
amount of IDA lending being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per
capita CNP was well below the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued
in FY80. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmi-
gration) for employment, food security and exports, over one third of Bank
Group-assisted projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans
andcredits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, industrial developmert financing (including small-scale
industry), power, telecommunications, population and nutrition, and technical
assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meeting the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the Bank's economic work, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic developments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alleviate
poverty. This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on
reforms that have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the
economy, mobilize domestic resources to finance needed investments and
recurrent expenditures, and foster a policy envireament conducive to the
achievement of required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high level of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on economic policy that has
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with the Government for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic
work is being given to trade and industrial issues, development of the finan-
cial system, and public resource management. In the lending program, agricul-
ture continues to receive the most attention. However, the program is broadly
based, and includes increasing emphasis on education and human resource deve-
lopment. Continued attention is being given to power and energy, where the
Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base,
rationalize pricing and improve sector planning. In transportation, the Bank
is focussing on efficiency improvements in the maritime sector and on improv-
ing the national network of highways and rural roads. In urban development



- 8 -
and water supply, lending is being directed more and more to developing inno-
vative low-cost solutions, providing for cost recovery and strengthening local
institutions, in order to minimize demands on the government budget and decen-
tralize the responsibility for addressing basic needs. In all, the Bank's
lending program is intended to contribute about 20% of Indonesia's capital
requirements during the next 3 years and is expected to be an important
catalyst in attracting other funds. Where possible, we are seeking also to
widen the impact of Bank lending through technical assistance, as well as
complementary investments and coordinated policy dialogue with other donors.
This is especially true in our lending programs for power, urban development,
water supply and transportation.
20.       There has4,een an improvement in the last few years in the
disbursement ratio - from a low of 13% in FY80 to over 17% in FY85. The poor
FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commit-
ments during the FY77-79 period, when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122% compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83%. However, it also
reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's budget-
ary, procurement and payment procedures, as well as the severe shortage of
managerial and technical manpower in Indonesia.  A number of steps have been
taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recom-
mendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The Government
and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures
to identify general and project-specific problems and work out corrective
measures. Procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979,
November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, the
government has taken measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and
financial procedures affecting project implementation. In addition, in order
to reduce disbursement delays due to initial project implementation difficul-
ties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a
later stage in the project cycle. The combiaed effects of all of these acti-
vities are reflected in the increase in disbursements from US$206 million in
FY79 to US$728 million in FY85. It is nevertheless clear that continued
efforts to improve project implementation and the pace of disbursements are
required, as Indonesia continues to show a disbursement ratio below the Bank-
wide average. A number of initiatives are underway. The Bank is helping the
Government in a special effort to identify problems in the construction indus-
try with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions and policies, as
weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been identified as one of
the major causes of implementation problems in Indonesia. Efforts are also
underway to develop standardized tender documents in order to speed the
procurement process, and to improve project monitoring and land acquisition
procedures. It is the Bank's and the Government's intention to devote conti-
nued attention to these and other aspects of project implementation in the
coming year, in order to ensure that maximum benefit is realized from the
Government's investments, Bank-assisted and other.
4/   The ratio of actual disbursemenzs during the fiscal year to the
cumulative undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



- 9 -
PART III - THE HOUSING SECTOR
21.       Housing Demand and Supply.  The urban population of Indonesia
increased at a rate of about 4% per year during the decade of the 1970s,
reaching 33 million in 1980, which represented 22% of the country's total
population of 147 million. The urban population is expected to continue grow-
ing at a rate of more than 4% per year (almost twice the overall population
growth rate) during the next two decades, leading to an urban population of
76 million or 36Z of the total by the year 2000. Every year, an estimated
2.2 million new urban residents (or 400,000 households) will require housing
and urban services. In addition, nearly two thirds of the urban housing stock
in 1980-81 was built out of semipermanent or temporary materials (often with a
useful life of less than 10 years). The upgrading and replacement of these
existing dwellings constitutes a significant qualitative backlog. Moreover,
about 16% of the estimated 6.2 million urban households in 1980 shared their
dwelling unit with at least one other household, indicating a considerable
quantitative backlog as well.
22.       The supply of housing is segmented into (a) a formal or regulated
supply produced in accordance with government regulations by private and pub-
lic sector developers who have legal access to land and institutional finance;
and (b) an informal or unregulated supply produced by individuals and builders
lacking legal access to land and finance and providing an often physically
deficient and legally insecure shelter.  The annual output of the formal
housing developers has ranged from about 40,000 to 65,000 units during the
past five years, with private developers accounting for an increasing share of
the total (more than 80% Gf total output in 1984-85). This annual output
represents less than 20% of estimated annual household formation during this
period. Moreover, supply patterns have been shifting during the last five
years towards more profitable larger units, and therefore do not correspond to
the structure of demand, which is heavily weighted towards the low cost units
affordable by the bulk of the population. In view of the limited formal
housing supply, most urban households have relied on informal builders and
creditors to meet minimal shelter requirements. Informal housing construction
has been quantitatively very significant, but the widening gap between formal
supply and demand has generated a large qualitative and quantitative backlog
of unsatisfied demand for housing (para. 21). To reduce this backlog, the
total volume of new housing needed during the next two decades will signifi-
cantly exceed the estimated 400,000 units per year required to accommodate new
households.
23.       Housing Policies, Institutions and Programs.  Ove: the past decade,
government housing policies and programs have evolved from a relatively margi-
nal activity to a key component of social policy. The Government's first
policy initiatives in the housing sector began in 1974 with the establishment
of the National Urban De-zelopment Corporation (PERUMNAS) to produce low cost
housing, the National Housing Policy Board (BKPN) to coordinate housing
policy, and a homeownership financing program (KPR) for purchasers of PERUMNAS
housing, through the State Savings and Housing Bank (Bank Tabungan Negara or
BTN). Although the scale of PERUMNAS' program remained quite limited in rela-
tion to overall demand, PERUMNAS steadily expanded its output from 50,000
units constructed during Repelita II to approximately 80,000 units built
during Repelita III. More than half of these were core units of 15-21 m



- 10 -
built on serviced sites with design standards and costs affordable by low
income urban families.
24.       Government housing policy was ezpanded in 1978 when BTN was autho-
rized to provide mortgage finance for housing units built by private deve-
lopers and construction finance was made available through the state comuner-
cial banks for up to 75% of total construction costs. In addition, the
Government created a Junior Minister of Housing position under the BKPN (sub-
stantially upgraded to full state ministry status in 1982) to more effectively
formulate and coordinate housing policy, in collaboration with the Ministry of
Public Works. BTN processed only a few thousand mortgage loans during
Repelita II but its mortgage lending operations increased rapidly during
Repelita III when it processed loans for more than 190,000 units (of which 45%
were built by PERUMNAS).
25.       By the end of Repelita III, BTN and PERUMNAS had become the dominant
institutions in the housing sector, under the general guidance of the Office
of the State Minister for Housing and the Ministry of Public Works. The basic
policy framework established over the previous decade was to build or provide
mortgage financing for housing aimed at households between the 20th and the
80th percentile of the urban income distribution (equivalent to monthly
incomes of about Rp 80,000 and Rp 300,000 respectively in 1985) with the
Kampung Improvement Program (KIP) addressing the need for shelter-related
services for those below the 20th percentile. In general terms, PERUMNAS
housing was aimed at those below the median income and the privately built
units financed by BTN catered to the needs of those above the median income
(approximately Rp 175,000 per month in 1985). The housing finance system has
continued to be dominated by BTN, designated as the main financial interme-
diary in the sector. Other institutional sources of housing finance, such as
a semiprivate mortgage institution (P.T. Papan Sejahtera) established in 1980,
cater to a higher income clientele (over Rp 300,000 per month) on a very
limited scale, averaging less than 1000 loans per year. Apart from BTN and
P.T. Papan, there are no other specialized mortgage lending institutions in
Indonesia, though some large employers and commercial banks reportedly provide
housing loans to their employees and clients.
26.       In accordance with Government policy, BTN has provided mortgage
loans for up to 90-95% of the value of housing units at highly concessionary
interest rates ranging from 5-9X over a 5-20 year term. These high loan to
value ratios and low lending rates have been made possible by an annual flow
of government funds into BTN to finance the housing program. The funds used
by BTN to finance PERUMNAS housing have been obtained from yearly budgetary
allocations, and since 1982 all funds for PERUMNAS have been channelled
through BTN as mortgage finance rather than directly as construction
finance. BTN's mortgage lending for privately developed units has been
financed by low cost (3%) liquidity credits from Bank Indonesia and to a much
lesser extent (about 10Z of funding requirements) from the Tabanas savings
program, through which BTN mobilizes individual savings, largely via the post
office network. Housing is one of the priority programs qualifying for Bank
Indonesia liquidity credits, through which the Governmenr has traditionally
channeled its financial savings into the banking system to achieve a variety
of development objectives. The low cost of these funds has enabled BIN to
maintain low mortgage lending rates, following government policy in the
sector.



- 11 -
27.       Sectoral Issues and Constraints.  Although the government policies
and programs described above have led to a significant increase in housing
production and mortgage financing during the past five years, a variety of
constraints have limited the impact and potential for expansion of these
steps. First, artificially low mortgage lending rates have been maintained by
BTN through an almost complete reliance on government funds. These lending
rates have in turn sharply limited BTN's capacity to mobilize nongovernment
resources in order to expand mortgage finance. Therefore, the availability of
housing finance, and hence the supply of housing, has been heavily constrained
by government lending policies.
28.       Second, the subsidies implied by BTN's lending Lrms have not been
closely targetted to the lowest income groups. From the outset, a wide range
of income groups has had access to subsidized mortgage finance. Moreover, due
to t2e shift in BTN lending in recent years towards the larger units (45-
70 m ) produced by private developers, the bulk of the subsidies have in fact
been received by higher income households. Although PERUMNAS expanded its low
cost housing program considerably during Repelita III, BTN mortgage lending
for privately constructed units increased much more rapidly, in response to
the strong demand for housing finance generated by developers building highly
profitable larger units. Hence, BTN funds have been increasingly directed to
the corresponding narrower segments of the housing market (i.e., those with
incomes above the median). This trend in the composition of BTN's lending
program continued into Repelita IV, raising questions about the allocation and
distribution of government resources.
29.       In addition to the above-mentioned constraints, a number of problems
of a policy, institutional or regulatory nature have limited the effectiveness
of the Government's housing policies. PERUMNAS' lack of autonomy with regard
to project selection, pricing, allocation and sales policies, coupled with
BTN's loan processing bottlenecks led, inter alia, to the following: (a) slow
mortgage loan processing for PERUMNAS beneficiaries, resulting in e large
backlog of unsold units by the end of Repelita III, and a slowdown in the pace
of construction due to the lack of sales revenue; (b) preferential treatment
to certain occupational groups (i.e., civil servants) in the allocation of
units; and (c) construction of housing for which there is limited demand, such
as flats in larger cities, and projects in a large number of small cities to
further the Government's geographical equity objectives. Land and regulatory
bottlenecks have also constrained the supply of housing. Cumbersome proced-
ures for land acquisition, combined with land speculation, have increased the
time and cost required to secure adequate land for housing construction.
Moreover, the restrictive regulations affecting private land and housing
development (e.g., prohibiting developers from building small units or requir-
ing a minimum plot size) and the difficulty and delays in obtaining land
titles have limited access to formal housing finance and restricted investment
in housing.
30.       Recent Policy Developments.  In September 1985, after extensive
discussion of sectoral constraints (para. 27-29), the Government took several
policy initiatives designed to improve sector performance. These measures
included: (a) an upward revision of mortgage lending rates to a range of 9-
15Z; (b) raising downpayment requirements to 10-40% of house values; (c) the
explicit redirection of BTN's lending program for the remaiuing three years of
Repelita IV towards smaller mortgage loans affordable by lower and middle



- 12 -
income groups; (d) the introduction of a fully blended system of funding which
limits low cost government funds for BTN and encourages BTN to mobilize non-
government resources; (e) giying developers other than PERUMNAS permission to
build house types below 36 m ; and (f) guaranteeing access to government-
supported housing to any person whose income is below the prescribed ceiling
(Rp 300,000 per week) without restrictions based on occupational status. In
addition, the Government recently initiated specific measures to strengthen
sector institutions, including managerial, procedural and other institutional
changes involving BTN and PERUMNAS.
31.       The new higher lending terms represent a major change which would
reduce the magnitude and improve the targeting of interest subsidies, while
allowing BTN to mobilize more nongovernment resources. Although the new
interest rates remain below commercial lending terms (e.g., 18% for
P.T. Papan's mortgage loans), with local inflation rates projected at 6% or
less in the foreseeable future, interest rates of 9-15Z would clearly be
positive in real terms, in contrast to negative mortgage lending rates over
the past three years. Moreover, this upward revision of mortgage lending
terms constitutes an important step in the context of an overall financial
sector strategy of reducing the excessive reliance of priority credit programs
on Bank Indonesia (BI) liquidity credits (Indonesia, Policies and Prospects
for Long-term Financial Development, Report No. 5501-IND dated July 10, 1985).
32.       The reorientation of BTN's lending program would completely reverse
recent trends and channel more than two thirds of BTN loans and almost half of
the mortgage funds for the remaining three years of Repelita IV to the low-
cost units affordable by households at or below the median income (para.
42). The changes in the composition of the program would enable BTN to reach
more households at a lower total program cost and target interest subsidies
more closely to the lowest income groups. To address the large demand for
housing the Government plans to provide mortgage finance for some 325,000
units in Repelita IV, of which about 130,000 have already been financed in the
first two years. The remaining three-year program of 195,000 units would be
distributed in accordance with th2 recently announced policy changes (i.e., at
least 135,000 units would be 36 m units or smaller, affordable by households
at or below the median income). To achieve this distribution, the Government
announced that in addition to PERUMNAS, piivate developers will now also be
permitted to build house types below 36 m . This very important regulatory
change may not be enough to induce private developers to build a large amount
of low-cost housing, but it eliminated a key regulatory restriction in the
sector. Further modifications in the regulatory and incentive system faced by
housing developers are espected to emerge from a housing market study to be
carried out under the proposed loan, which would examine demand patterns and
supply processes for housing and identify specific constraints and solutions.
33.       The recent measures taken by the Government, formally announced in a
Ministerial Decree dated September 10, 1985, and a letter to BTN's Board from
BI dated September 9, 1985, represent a very significant turning point in the
evolution of Indonesian housing policy. These changes in sector policies and
related regulatory and institutional measures constitute an important step in
the longer term process of sector rationalization and provide the basis for
the proposed Bank loan. To provide a broader context for these measures, the
Government has prepared a Housing Sector Policy Statement which outlines
current and future objectives as well as arrangements for implementation and



- 13 -
monitoring of recent policy changes. The objectives that the Government
intends to pursue include: (a) further reducing reliance of the housing
finance system on Government funds; (b) expanding access to home ownership to
a broader range of income groups; (c) targetting subsidies more efficiently;
(d) eliminating regulatory controls which adversely affect the housing market;
and (e) introducing more competition in the mortgage financing market.
34.       Experience with Past Bank Lending.  Bank involvement in Indonesia's
housing sector dates back to the intitial sites and services component
included in the Jakarta Urban Development Project (Loan 1040-IND) which
financed some 8,000 serviced residential lots (most with a core unit) and also
provided start-up assistance for PERUMNAS and BTN housing activities. The
project was completed in December 1980 and the Project Performance Audit
Report was issued in June 1983 (Report No. 4620). The report noted early
disagreements over design standards and allocation criteria, but concluded
that the project largely achieved the objective of demonstrating that sites
and services with core units represented a viable approach to the provision of
low income housing. This approach, with a minimum habitable core house on
each site, was accepted by Government and became an integral part of the
PERUMNAS program. In the Fourth Urban Development Project (Loan 1972-IND),
the Bank renewed its assistance to the housing sector with a component which
financed some 11,000 core units in eight cities as well as substantial
technical assistance for PERUMNAS and BTN. This project is under
implementation and quantitative physical targets and institutional goals have
now been nearly attained. A major lesson of this project has been the
importance of adequate policies (e.g., regarding project selection, pricing,
allocation and sales) to complement the increased construction capacity of
PERUMNAS. In addition, the establishment of close links between PERUMNAS and
BTN, and more generally the institutional development of BTU, have been shown
to be important elements of successful sector performance. These lessons have
been incorporated in the design of the proposed Loan.
35.       Future Lending Strategy.  The Bank's approach to the housing sector
has evolved from the financing of pre-identified site-specific operations, as
in the First and Fourth Urban Development Projects, to taking a more global
perspective on the sector and its relationship to the Indonesian economy.
Specifically, in processing future lending operations, the Bank expects to
focus most of its attention on issues such as overall program composition,
lending terms and conditions, resource mobilization, regulatory constraints
and institutional development, and their links to macroeconomic and financial
sector concerns. This lending strategy would address not only the Govern-
ment's quantitative goals in the sector, but also key policy and institutional
aims, such as the consolidation of a housing finance system with mortgage
lending rates that permit the mobilization of non-government resources, as
well as further strengthening of the key sector institutions. The proposed
loan would be the first operation in Indonesia financed by the Bank focussing
exclusively on the housing sector, and has emerged from a two-year dialogue on
sector issues and significant policy changes have already taken place during
the process of preparation (paras. 30-33). The rationale for the Bank's
involvement would be to continue to act as a catalyst for sector policy and
institutional changes.



- 14 -
BANK TABUNGAN NEGARA (BTN)
36.       Organization and Management.  Bank Tabungan Negara (BTU) was created
by Presidential Decree under the State Savings Bank Act (Act No. 20) of
1968. Its original objective of stimulating savings was amended in 1974, when
the Ministry of Finance assigned BTN the responsibility for mortgage financing
of housing units built by PERUMNAS. This new objective was expanded further
in 1978 when BTN was authorized to provide mortgage financing for housing
units built by private developers. Under the supervision of Bank Indonesia
and the Ministry of Finance, BTN has now become the country's only major
housing bank, with its key function being the provision of mortgage financing
to both publicly and privately developed housing units. BTN is managed by a
Board of Directors comprising a President Director and two other Managing
Directors all of whom are appointed by the Government for a five-year term.
The current Board was appointed in March 1985 and includes a member of the
previous Board as President Director as well as the former head of BTN's
Finance and Accounting Department and a third Managing Director who is new to
BTN. The Board members act as Chief Executive Officers making all major
policy decisions and supervising their implementation through various "biros"
or departments in BTN's head office in Jakarta as vell as BTN's 11 branches
located around the countrY.
37.       Staffing.  Currently BTN has 1,733 staff members, about 20% of which
are employed in its head office and the remainder in the 11 branch offices.
Only about 100 staff members are university graduates and over 1,000 are high
school graduates. About 75Z of university graduates are employed in BTN's
head office with the branches having a maximu;m of four and in some cases no
university graduates at all. Thus BTN's staff, especially at the branch
level, has a relatively low level of educational attainment. BTN's new Board
recognizes that more intensive efforts need to be made to attract qualified
staff and to train the existing staff in order to implement more effective
systems for handling BTN's present and projected volume of operations. Con-
firmation was obtained at negotiations that BTN will, as part of its
Institutional Action Program (para. 38), induct newly recruited university
graduates and finalize arrangements with the Institution for the Development
of Banking in Indonesia (LPPI) to provide trainers and assistance to BTN's new
Training Department. BTN has also designated staff in each branch who will
act as counterparts to consultants assisting BTN in the implementation of new
manual and automated systems. Consultant assistance would also be provided
under the proposed loan to develop a comprehensive manpower development plan,
which would identify in detail BTN's recruitment and training needs.
38.       Policies and Procedures.  A Policy Statement spelling out key guide-
lines and safeguards related to BTN lending and financial operations was
agreed upon at negotiations. The Policy Statement, which would be formally
adopted by BTN as a condition of loan effectiveness, covers, inter alia, the
following: (a) BTN adherence to objectives of GOI's housing program,
including the composition of the program and financing terms; (b) BTN
financial policies, to be monitored through key financial ratios; (c) internal
policies which ensure attainment of objectives; and (d) reporting
requirements. Although the internal policies and procedures followed by BTN
are well established, its operational experience with mortgage lending is
largely limited to the past five years. With the rapid growth of lending



- 15 -
volume, deficiencies in several areas of BTN's performance have become
increasingly apparent. Although BTN appraisal and supervision of private
developer projects is quite detailed despite the large number of projects
processed, branch staff is generally not adequately tkained to perform these
functions analytically. As a result, the substantial volume of information
generated during this process is not summarized selectively to facilitate
management review and there is evidence that BTN's past rules roncerning,
inter alia, the size distribution of units within projects and maximum unit
prices and applicant incomes have not been followed. Generally lax enforce-
ment of BTN's rules and regulations by a Largely untrained staff, lack of
uniform procedures among branches and inadequate safeguards and information,
have therefore led to a situation where corporate goals and objectives have
not been satisfactorily achieved. Moreover, the lack of systematic loan
accounting and follow-up procedures has led to increasing payment arrears on
BTN's loan portfolio (para. 45). To improve BTN's operational performance,
its new Board has already taken steps to gain better control of branch opera-
tions (e.g., efforts to improve arrears management) and provide expanded staff
training. Measures to strengthen its operational performance and specific
changes in certain practices have been agreed with BTN's management and are
incorporated into the Institutional Action Program, with technical assistance
provided under the proposed loan for new systems implementation, manpower
planning and a management adviser. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that BTN would implement the program according to a schedule agreed with the
Bank and BTN would periodically review with the Bank progress made in the
various areas.
39.       Links with PERUMNAS.  BTN's initial mortgage lending activities were
closely linked to the public housing program built by PERUMNAS, and until
1982-83, PERUMNAS accounted for more than half of BTN's annual lending opera-
tions. However, due to the bottlenecks described below, loans for units built
by PERUMNAS have declined in the past three years, and the resulting sales
backlog and drop in sales revenue has slowed the PERUMNAS construction pro-
gram. In contrast to its treatment of private developers, BTN has until
recently processed loans for the beneficiaries of PERUMNAS projects without
appraisals or commitment letters for these projects. However, after 1982,
PERUMNAS stopped receiving budgetary funds directly and therefore required
BTN's commitment letter in order to obtain construction finance for its pro-
jects. Since BTN has been receiving budgetary funds earmarked for PERUMNAS
mortgage loans, it has given commitment letters without requiring detailed
project appraisals. However, BTN has raised questions at later stages about
PERUMNAS projects and beneficiaries, slowing down loan origination even though
the units were in most cases already allocated. In mid-1985, some 43,000 com-
pleted PERUMNAS units were awaiting mortgage loan processing by BTN, although
this backlog was stibstantially reduced in early 1986 by an emergency sales
program (para. 40).
40.       There are several reasons for the operational problems which arose
between BTN and PERUMNAS, including: (a) a lack of early contact between
PERUMNAS and BTN staff regarding project and beneficiary selection; (b)
inadequate BTN staff for loan processing at the required time and place; (c)
delays by PERUMNAS in establishing the sales price of the units, since until
recently this was done by its parent Ministry (Public Works); (d) the lack of
an immediate sale policy (i.e., the practice of allowing beneficiaries to move
in before loan processing); (e) unmarketable units built by PERUMNAS in small



- 16 -
towns due to external pressures; and (f) a variety of specific problems
ranging from irregular plots which differ from those indicated in the original
commitment letter to inadequate downpayments and disagreements over the
creditworthiness of some PERUMNAS beneficiaries. These problems have now been
identified in detail and regular meetings are now caking place between the
Boards and senior staff of the two institutions to resolve them. BTN has
specifically committed itself to create, inter alia, "flying brigades" to
supplement local branch staff if necessary, and initiate regular appraisals of
PERUMNAS projects as part of the commitment letter process in order to ensure
early interaction with PERUMNAS and facilitate subsequent loan processing.
PERUMNAS has developed and discussed with BTN a detailed inventory of all
projects and the specific bottlenecks affecting loan processing in each. In
addition to this ongoing emergency sales program to clear the backlog of
unsold units, PERUMNAS management has agreed to implement an Institutional
Action Program which incorporates measures to prevent future backlogs and will
improve the agency's operational and financial performance for the remainder
of Repelita IV and beyond. The content of this Action Program and a detailed
timetable for implementation and review was agreed at negotiations.
41.       Past Operational Performance.  BTN's lending operations during
Repelita III expanded at a remarkably fast pace, as the demand for housing
finance increased rapidly and funds were made available from GOI's budget and
Bank Indonesia. BTN's mo-tgage loan portfolio increased sharply from only
5,260 units financed du:ng Repelita II for a mortgage value of Rp 11.6 bil-
lion to 191,938 units during Repelita III for a total mortgage value of
Rp 593.1 billion. Due to the bottlenecks mentioned above (para. 40), BTN's
lending operations during t!Lis period were increasingly directed to the larger
and higher cost housing units built by private developers rather than the low
cost housing built by PERUMNAS. Of BTN's total mortgage lending during
Repelita III, only 41% of the Ioans and 18X of the funds were for the smaller
core housing units (below 36 m ) which were affordable for households at or
below the median urban income. More than 85% of the PERUMNAS units financed
by BTN during this period were core housing units while only 5Z of privately
developed units were in thi s category. The remaining units financed by BTN
ranged in size from 36-70 mi, and 36X of the total funds disbursed were
directed at units in the 60-70 m range, which were affordable only by
households above the 80th percentile.
42.       Repelita IV Program.  BTN's lending program for Repelita IV calls
for the financing of some 325,000 housing units, of which about half would be
built by PERUMNAS and the remaining half by private developers. In the first
two years of Repelita IV, BTN has financed about 130,000 units (of which 37%
are PERUMNAS units) for a total of Rp 728.7 billion. Of this total, only 39%
of the loans and ibout 14% of the funds have been directed to the smaller
units (below 36 m ), affordable by households ai or below the median income,
while the largest units ranging between 60-70 m consumed about 40% of the
funds. BTN's lending program for the remaining tF ee years of Repelita IV
comprises financing commitments for nearly 195,000 housing units for a total
of about Rp 1,023 billion in current prices. Based on decisions taken at the
highest level in c-overnment (paras. 30-33), the future lending program has
been significantly reoriented and targetted towards smaller, lower cost units
affordable to lower and middle income groups. Specifically, more than two
thirds of the total number of units to be financed by BTN in the rpmaining
three years of Repelita IV would be the smaller units below 36 m2 affordable



- 17 -
at or below the median income under the new lending terms and conditions.
About one half of the mortgage funds to be disbursed by BTN would be
channelled to households in the bottom half of the income distribution. An
agreement was reached at negotiations that BTN's lending program would be
reviewed periodically with the Bank and revisions or corrective mfeasures
taken, if needed, to ensure compliance with the agreed overall composition of
the program.
43.       Recent Financial Performance.  Between FY1981/82-FY1984/85, BTN's
total assets more than tripled to Rp 991 billion in FY1984/85.  BTN's mortgage
loan portfolio was valued at Rp 817 billion by the end of March 31, 1985,
representing about 82% of its total assets. BTN's lending operations have
been funded primarily from GOI contributions in the form of quasi-equity and
Bank Indonesia liquidity credits with a concessional interest rate of 3% p.a.,
in addition to the funds mobilized through its own resources. BTN mobilized
the largest amount of the funds through liquidity credits from Bank Indonesia,
which funded 68% of the total housing loan portfolio in FY1984/85, followed by
GOI contributions (20%) and BTN's own resources (12%).
44.       BIN's income increased more than fivefold between FY81/82 and
FY84/85 to Rp 78 billion in FY1984/85. BTN's operations, which reached the
break-even level in FY81/82. showed a significant profit of Rp 5.2 billion in
FY82/83 and this profit further increased almost fourfold to Rp 19.8 billion
in FY1984/85. The return on equity increased steadily over this period and
reached 8.6% in FY84/85 as compared to 0.2% in FY81/82 and 5.8% in FY82/83.
This performance was primarily due to a decline in the cost of funds relative
to interest income and a considerable decrease in the ratio of payroll costs
to income. In FY1984/85 BTN earned an average interest income of 7.9% on
average total assets and its average cost of funds was 3.0% of total assets,
yielding an interest spread of 4.9Z in FY1984/85 as compared to 3.0% in
FY1981/82. This substantial increase in its interest spread, due to a greater
proportion of low cost funds being used for the more profitable larger units,
clearly contributed to BTN's increased profitability over this period.
45.       Regarding the quality of BTNs loan portfolio, arrears in principal
and interest on its portfolio amounted to Rp 11.7 billion as of March 31,
1985, representing 1.4% of the entire outstanding portfolio. These arrears
figures probably overstate the problem since they include payment delays of
one month and do not take into account unrecorded aggregate payments received
by BTN from paymasters and other banks for which loan accounts have not been
clearly identified. Nevertheless, BTN's loan portfolio affected by arrears
increased considerably from 0.8% in March 1982 to 1.4% in March 1985. Signi-
ficant risks to BTN's cash flow and financial position would arise if these
arrears on installments receivable continued to grow and, more important, if
they reflected uncollectable loans which needed to be written off. The reori-
entation of its portfolio to lower cost units targetted at lower income house-
holds could well increase the risk of growing arrears. BTN recognizes this
potential problem and has initiated a "crash" program to collect overdue
installments, as well as a more systematic effort to improve arrears manage-
ment which has been agreed with BTN as part of its Institutional Action
Program.
46.       Future Financial Performance.  It is estimated that new housing
Loans valued at Rp 470 billion were disbursed by BTN in FY85/86, and a further



- 18 -
Rp 1,023 billion would be disbursed during the program period (FY86/87-
FY89/90). BTN's net housing loan portfolio of Rp 817 billion in FY84/85 is
projected to increase to Rp 2,033 billion by the end of FY89/90, representing
more than 85% of the total assets throughout the program period. Interest
income from housing loans will increase substantially over the program period
(FY86/87-FY89/90), reflecting the recent change in interest rates on BTN's new
housing loans. However, since BTN will be relying less on low-cost government
resources, its cost of funds is also expected to increase. BTN's financial
projections indicate that BTN's spread and profitability will remain at a
satisfactory level over the program period despite its increased cost of
funds. The net interest spread would be at least 32 over the next few years
and net working capital would increase steadily as the current ratio reaches
2.7 by the end of FY88/89. Over the project period, BTN would maintain its
sound financial position, as indicated by the current, debt service, and
debt/equity ratios. The current and debt service ratios would be maintained
above a minimum level of 1.5 and 1.2 respectively, while the debt/equity ratio
would remain below a maximum of 6.0. The projections assume that BTN would
take all necessary actions to improve the collection of principal and interest
receivables and to avoid arrears on mortgage loans to a maximum extent during
the project period.
47.       Resource Requirements.  BTN's projected resource requirements on a
disbursement basis amount to a total of fp 1023.4 billion for the project
period FY86/87-FY89/90. The resources from GOI, BI and IBRD would cover about
68% of the financing requirements, with BTN covering the remaining Rp 329 bil-
lion. BIN will rely mainly on savings operations and internal cash generation
through its lending operations to meet its share of the projected resource
requirements. The financial projections indicate that BTN should be in a good
position to meet these requirements. Although these projections show a com-
fortable level of cash reserves, in view of GOI's budgetary limitations, BTN
may face some uncertainty regarding the expected GOI contributions. The
detailed financing plan for the period FY86/87 to FY89/90 was reviewed and
confirmed during negotiations. In the future, BTN intends to mobilize addi-
tional non-government resources through several new instruments, including
time deposits aimed at institutional investors and a saving-for-housing scheme
for the general public. These new instruments are now being designed and
tested by BTN and are expected to make a significant contribution to financing
BTN's lending in the medium-term.
PART IV -- THE PROJECT
48.       Project Origin and Formulation.  The proposed project was identified
in the context of a sector review in November 1983. This review identified
the key areas of policy reform needed to enable GOI to achieve its objectives
and targets. The recommendations of this review were a subject of extensive
discussion between the Bank and the Government over a period of nearly two
years. In September 1985, the Government announced significant changes in
sector policies (paras. 30-33). The project was prepared by the Office of the
State Minister for Housing, with BTN and PERUMNAS assistance.  The project was
appraised in October 1985, and a postappraisal mission visited Jakarta in
February/March 1986. Negotiations were held in Washington, D. C. on May 5-9,
1986. The Indonesian delegation was Led by Mr. Oskar Surjaatmadja, Director



- 19 -
General for Domestic Monetary Affairs, Ministry of Finance. Supplementary
Project Data are in Annex III. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6053-IND) is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
49.       Project Objectives and Description.  The objectives of the proposed
project, in line with GOI goals for Repelita IV, would be to: (a) expand
access to housing finance for low and middle income households; (b) reduce
overall subsidies and target the remaining subsidies to the lowest income
groups; (c) reduce the reliance of the housing finance system on government
funds and introduce new instruments for resource mobilization; (d) stimulate
the production of more low-cost housing by both public and private developers;
Ce) generate employment at low foreign exchange costs; and (f) strengthen the
key institutions in the housing sector, namely the BTN and PERUMNAS, and
assist the Office of the State Minister for Housing in developing and
monitoring housing sector policies and programs. The proposed loan would have
the following components: (a) a credit line to BTN which would be used to
finance a share of total mortgage lending commitments during the last three
years of Repelita IV (para. 42); and (b) technical assistance and computers
and other equipment for BTN and PERUMNAS to strengthen their operational per-
formance and management, and for the Office of the State Minister for Housing
to develop its capacity for housing policy formulation and monitoring. The
technical assistance for BTN and PERUMNAS would include: assistance in the
implementation of new systems, manpower planning studies and advisory services
for management, project monitoring and computerization. The technical assist-
ance for the Office of the State Minister for Housing would include a study of
housing market behavior in urban Indonesia focussing on demand patterns and
supply constraints, a postconstruction study of low-cost housing projects, and
advisory services for housing policy analysis and a study of land titl.ng
bottlenecks for BTN-financed housing. Detailed terms of reference have been
agreed upon for technical assistance. BTN consultants would be appointed
before loan effectiveness.
50.       Project Costs.  The total cost of the housing program for which
financing commitments would be provided during the period 1986-1987 to 1988-89
(described in para 42) is estimated at Rp 1,322.8 billion (US$1,202.6
million), of which US$169.3 million, or 20%, are estimated to be direct and
indirect foreign exchange costs. Taxes and duties are estimated at about
Rp 66 billion (US$60 million). The base cost estimates for the housing
program (expressed in December 1985 prices) are based on unit sales prices for
housing units of the type to be financed under the project, which are in turn
based on the actual experien e of recent PERUMNAS projects and the annually
revised maximum prices per m set by the Directorate General of Human
Settlements (Cipta lCarya) of the Ministry of Public Works and followed by
BTN. Costs for the technical assistance component (US$6.1 million) include
about 600 man-months of consultant services, of which about 145 are foreign
consultant services, as well as equipment and training (US$.8 million).
Estimated price increases over the project period amount to about 13% of base
costs. Price increases for local costs are estimated at 6% p.a. and for
foreign costs at 7.2% for 1986, 6.8% for 1987 and 1988 and 7.0Z for 1989.
51.       Financing Plan and On-lending Terms.  The proposed Bank loan of
US$275 million would finance the housing program's full foreign exchange cost
of approximately US$240.5 million and US$28.4 million of local costs, as well
as the full cost (US$6.1 million) of technical assistance. In addition to the



- 20 -
Bank's 23% sharep the other sources of funds which would finance the balance
of the program include beneficiary downpayments (23%) liquidity credits from
Bank Indonesia (13%), budgetary funds from the Ministry of Finance (16%) and
resources mobilized by BTN itself (25Z). The proposed Bank loan would be made
to the Government, which would on-lend to BTN the portion earmarked for
mortgage Loans (US$268.9 million) under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The on-
lending rate for BTN would be fixed at 11.5% with a 20-year term, including 5
years of grace. The Government would bear the foreign exchange and interest
rate fluctuation risks of the Bank loan which are expected to be covered by
the spread between the Bank's current rate and the proposed on-lending rate to
BTN. The remainder of the Bank loan (US$6.1 million), which would finance
consuLtant assistance and equipment, would be passed on to the Office of the
State Ministry for Housing, and to BTN and PERUMUAS under Subsidiary Loan
Agreements. The signing of the Subsidary Loan Agreements with BTN and
PERUMNAS would be conditions of effectiveness. These on-lending terms and
conditions were confirmed at negotiations. In addition, arrangements between
BTN and Bank Indonesia for provision of Bank Indonesia financing of US$162
million equivalent in liquidity credits at a rate of 3% p.a. for a 20-year
term, would be formalized as a condition of loan effectiveness.
52.       BTN would use the proceeds of the Bank loan to finance loans to
eligible borrowers at its new lending terms and conditions. BTN's lending
terms are of three types, differentiated according to mortgage loan size:
Type A: 9% interest over 20 years with a 10% down payment, applicable to
mortgage loans of Rp 3.5 million or less (1985 prices); Type B: 12% interest
over 20 years with a 20% down payment, applicable to mortgage loans of between
Rp 3.5 and Rp 5.0 million; and Type C: 15% interest over 20 years with a 25%
down payment, applicable to mortgage Loans of between Rp 5.0 and Rp 7.7 mil-
lion. The mortgage size ranges to which the above terms would be applied
correspond2to various house types. Type A terms would apply to housing units
of 15-21 m , Type B terms would apply to units of 27-36 m , and Type C terms
would apply to the remaining units in the program, although down-payment
requirements would differ for the largest (70 mO) units and the flats included
in the program. The mortgage loan sizes to which the different terms would
apply would be updated periodically to take into account revisions in Cipta
Karya's maximum unit price guidelines, and in consultation with the Bank.
53.       Eligibility, Review and Approval Procedures.  Eligibility for BTN
financing would be determined through the appraisal of projects and individual
loan applicants. BTN's eligibility criteria would be revised in accordance
with GOI's new policies, including, inter alia, the following specific revi-
sions: (a) the required size distribution of units wi 2hin projects would be
modified to at least a 70/30 ratio between small (36 m and below) and large
houses; and (b) monthly income of the borrowers receiving mortgage loans would
not exceed Rp 300,000 (roughly equivalent to the 80th percentile) and all
applicants meeting this income criterion would be eligible, regardless of
occupation. The revised criteria would be incorporated into BTN's Policy
Statement. All developer projects and individual mortgage applicants who meet
BTN's revised eligibility criteria would be eligible for Bank financing. In
addition, steps would be taken under the PERUMNAS Institutional Action Program
to adopt a lottery system for allocation of units to eligible applicants.
Most of the approximately 300 privately developed subprojects appraised and
financed by BTN annually in the past 2 years comprise between 50 and 300
units, with total financing ranging from about Rp 250 million (US$227,000) to



- 21 -
Rp 2.1 billion (US$1.9 million). About half of PERMUNAS' 30 new projects per
year comprise more than 300 unitsi but the individual loans are typically
lower, so total financing costs are in the same range. Initially, all
subprojects with a total financing cost exceeding Rp 1.3 billion (US$1.2 mil-
lion) or exceeding 250 housing units (whichever is lesa) would be reviewed and
approved by the Bank prior to approval by BTN. BTN would, before approving a
comuitment to a developer, submit a completed Subproject Appraisal Summary to
the Bank (in an appraisal format agreed at negotiations) for each subproject
above this free limit. For subprojects below this limit, BTD would also
complete and retain a Subproject Appraisal Summary and these subprojects would
be subject to a posteriori review by the Bank on a sample basis. However, if
the first 20 projects reviewed are acceptable, the Bank would consider
increasing the subproject free limit during the loan period. The Bank would
also review the proposed annual programs of PERMUNAS and a periodic sample of
individual subloans for different types of units.
54.       Procurement.  About 99% of the proposed loan would finance BTN
mortgage disbursements, and would thereby indirectly finance civil works and
goods contracts for infrastructure and housing construction.  For all con-
tracts indirectly financed by the loan, procurement procedures specific to
each type of developer, public and private, would apply. PERUMNAS, which is
expected to account for about half of the loan would award most civil works
contracts following Local Competitive Bidding procedures which are satisfac-
tory to the Bank and lead to ef_cient housing construction. Individual
contracts placed by PERUMNAS typically do not exceed about US$1 million, due
to its practice of subdividing construction on individual sites into several
contracts tailored to suit local contracting capacity. Where possible,
PERMUNAS will package work in general contracts suited to larger contrac-
tors. Contracts exceeding the equivalent of US$5 million would be tendered
under International Competitive Bidding procedures, where prequalification of
interested bidders shows that foreign bidders can be expected to compete.
PERUMNAS has already acquired suitable sites to fulfill most of the Repelita
IV housing program and has initiated land acquisition arrangements for the
estimated remainder of 800 ha. Private developers, which are expected to
account for the other half of the loan, typically use a mixture of outside
contracting and in-house workforces to execute construction. Following
procurement practices laid down by BTN, they are required to engage a licensed
architectural/engineering firm to prepare designs and certify construction
compliance with specifications, and both BTN and the relevant local authority
building inspectorate scrutinize design and construction practices. About
US$6.1 million of the loan would be used to finance technical assistance and
equipment for institutional development. Equipment would be procured either
by local prudent shopping or directly from manufacturers to ensure
compatibility with existing equipment on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Consultant services would be procured following Bank guidelines.
55.       Disbursement.  The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan of US$250
million would be committed over a period of three years (mid-1986 to mid-
1989), and expected to be fully disbursed in four and one half years, with the
closing date set at December 31, 1991. The disbursement projections are based
on actual and expected performance in the sector. However, the pace of actual
disbursements would be a function of the ability of PERUMNAS and private
developers to generate projects and BTN's capacity to process the associated
loan volume. In view of the large number of small subloans, disbursements



- 22 -
would be made by the Bank periodically on a reimbursement basis, covering
about 29% of BTN's total eligible mortgage disbursements over the program
period, against Statements of Expenditure for an aggregate value of not less
than US$500,000 submitted by BTN. The supporting documents would be retained
by BTN and be available for inspection by the Bank. Disbursement percentages
would be linked t? the size of units financed by BTN, i.e., 50% for the
smallest (15-21 m , Type A loans), 45% for the medium-size (27-36 m2, Type B
loans) and 40Z for the larger (45-54 m2, Type C loans).  Disbursements for
mortgages of type C would not exceed US$60 million (22% of total loan pIoceeds
on-lent to BTN), and the Bank would not disburse against loans for 70 m
units, flats or dormitories. Retroactive financing of up to US$15 million
would be provided, to cover BTN disbursements between April 1, 1986 and the
date of loan signing. Disbursement for consultant services would be 100% of
expenditures. For equipment, the disbursement rate would be 100Z of foreign
expenditures; or 95% of local expenditures (ex-factory); or 65% of
expenditures for locally procured items.
56.       Accounts and Audits.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
BTN would maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor the progress of
its operations and financial condition. BTN's accounting systems and internal
control procedures are presently deficient and need to be improved. BTN's
1983 and 1984 financial statements were given a qualified audit report by the
State Audit Agency (BPKP), due mainly to discrepancies in financial accounts
between headquarters and branches, and there have been substantial delays in
the submission of the 1984 audited financial statements. However, the 1984
audit report showed significant improvement, reflecting steps taken to address
these deficiencies by appointing a special audit team to review and clarify
the discrepancies in certain accounts, training internal audit staff, and
appointing a public accounting firm to assist in strengthening internal audit
and control functions.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that BTN
accounts would be auditied by independent external auditors satisfactory to
the Bank, apart from the assistance being contracted for its internal auditing
unit, and that the auditors' reports, together with BTN's audited financial
statements, would be submitted to the Bank not later than nine months after
the close of each financial year. Under the proposed loan, technical
assistance would be provided to BTN- to strengthen, inter alia, its accounting
and auditing practices, particularly in the area of Loan accounting.
57.       PERUMNAS has also received qualified audit reports in recent
years. For PERUMNAS, the principal qualification has been insufficient
documentation of financial transactions incurred in the period 1975/76-
1982/83. Steps have been taken to review and determine the amount of these
accounts by a special audit team appointed by BPKP and the management of
PERUMNAS. Other steps to be taken have been included in the Institutional
Action Program for PERUMNAS and involve implementation of new accounting
systems with ongoing consultant assistance.
58.       Monitoring Arrangements.  The Bank would monitor the progress of the
proposed program with the help of quarterly reports, financial statements and
supporting documents which would be submitted to the Bank by BTN and the
Office of the State Minister for Housing within one month after the end of
each quarter. The format of these reports and the related reporting
procedures were agreed at negotiations. In addition, BTN would prepare and
submit annual operating plans covering all of its activities. These



- 23 -
monitoring procedures would be supplemented by supervision missions.
Supervision effort would initially concentrate on monitoring BTN's adherence
to new policies and procedures in its lending operations and on the
Instititutional Action Programs of BTN and PERUMWAS. In addition to BTN's
reporting requirements to the Bank, the State Minister for Housing would chair
a Coordinating Comittee which would monitor the program. The Office of the
State Minister for Housing, in collaboration with BTN and PERUMNAS, would
prepare the Project Completion Report.
59.       Project Benefits.  In quantitative terms, the project would provide
mortgage finance for nearly 195,000 housing units built by the public and pri-
vate sector, thus easing one of the key constraints to a larger housing
supply. Moreover, the project would reorient the housing program by modifying
the size distribution of the units financed towards the smaller units afford-
able by lower and middle income households, in sharp contrast to the recent
pattern of mortgage finance (paras. 41-42). Specifically, more than two
thirds of the units and half of the morLgage funds would be directed to bene-
ficiaries with incomes at or below the median. The social or impact of the
project would therefore be very significant. It is estimated that at least
one third of the more than one million people benefitting from the project
would be below the urban relative poverty threshold for Indonesia (estimated
at US$245 per capita in 1983 prices). Moreover, it is estimated that housing
investment of the magnitude proposed under this project would generate roughly
340,000 person-years of direct employment and approximately 135,000 person-
years of indirect employment in the building materials industry.
60.       Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return for the pro-
ject was calculated using the following assumptions regarding project benefits
and costs. Imputed rents were estimated using data on market rents for dwell-
ings of various sizes in three urban locations in Indonesia. Using this
measure of benefits, as well as the total costs of the housing program (net of
taxes) and annual maintenance costs, the economic rate of return was estimated
at 15Z. More exte,nsive and reliable rental data would probably yield a much
higher economic rate of return due to the limited supply and strong demand for
well-located low-cost housing units. In addition, the economic justification
of the project would be enhanced by considering the incremental benefits of
subsequent housing improvements made by beneficiaries, the benefits brought by
che project to low income people who rent space from the beneficiaries and the
possible lowering of the rate of increase of housing rents due to increased
supply.
61.       Project Risks  The major risks associated with this project
include: la) the possibility that institution-building efforts at BTN could
be prolonged and consequently BTN's effectiveness in performing the functions
assigned to it under the project would be reduced; (b) the risk that BTN will
not fully implement GOI's new policies regarding the size distribution at
units and that its recent lending patterns will continue; (c) the risk that
because of loan processing and other problems, PERUMNAS' delivery capacity
will be limited; and (d) the risk that higher income groups will appropriate
the low-cost housing targetted for lower income groups, due tc strong demand
and limited overall supply of housing. These risks have all been taken into
account in designing the project and are believed to be manageable through the
BTN Policy Statement, Institutional Action Programs, technical assistance and
periodic progress reviews.



- 24 -
PART V    RECOMMENDATION
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment
June 2, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-25-                                      NNEX I
Page 1 of 6 pages
%M%n   Evwn ai_               im)5 
NM                       (MR ugcw ow) #
iwtooL     twob unms               ASIA & *ACIPtC         L.r. AIRICA4 CO
i- t.uhafl g. 0
TOTAL                            l1ol.3      191o.3     1919.3
MRIOILTU3|a.                  296.W       307.1      31.35
PM cQ            (go)                 *- *                  60.0             1011.1                   1875.9
tZIlo    OPr OUl .IQUIVALT)        U.O        93.0       191.0             536.8                    913.6
Pormatil ND* VIRAL 31A!13110
POPULATION.MD-TRAR CTMOU3*ANDS)  94480.0   114201.0    1 53469.0
0334 POPULATION C OF TOTAL)        14.6        17.1       24.1               33.9                     67.7
POPIILATIOU PUOZRCTIOU
POPULATION IN Tan 2000 (CILL)                          212.0
STATIORI POPULATION CHILL)                             368.0
POPULTION HONIUDI                                        1.3
POPULATION DES111I
PR 3Q. Ml.                       49.3        60.5       61.1              386.9                     44.0
mm sq. M1. AR. LAN              319.3       375.4      483.4             1391.2                     91.1
POPULATION Ml9 STuCTU3it (3)
0-14 1TA                        40.7        4.0        40.6               33.2                     38.3
15-64 13.                        36.2       53.4        55.0              57.7                      57.1
65 AMD AS0                        3.0         2.3        3.5                3.5                      4.2
POPULATION G1OlS Ra  CZ)
TOTAL                             2.1         2.0        2.2                2.3                      2.4
uRBA                              3.7         3.6        4.3                4.1                      3.6
CRUDE 3III Ra   (MER iNOUS)       44.2       41.0        34.0              30.1                      30.9
*UDE ORATE uam  (M    s)           22.9        17.6       12.S                9.4                      *.0
-23 BR3UucTIOU RATE                 2.7         2.7        2.1                1.9                      2.0
FAIL PLNINFLAM
ACMOEB.  TIAL       U0)           ..        13l.      3051.0 /.
usas CZ or  *REIR  WuN)           ..          ..        58.0               56.5                     45.3
FOOD AM 02IUW
1I1 0K  OOD roPa. PE CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      93.0       102.0      123.0              124.4                    109.6
PR CAPA SUPLr OF
C*LORIES (Z 0F 1R1TS)            79.0       92.0       112.0              115.7                    113.2
p31ms (cam  M DAY)               34.0       41.0        53.0              60.3                      69.4
OF HIIIH ANDIL AND PUE           6.0        6.0         7.0 /A            14.1                     34.2
CEIILD (AGZS 1-4) DRA13 RATE       21.9        13.1       13.0                7.2                      4.8
LIFE 31Cr. AT SI2D (SM)            41.2       47.0        53.5              60.6                      64.3
IN=A   M . RATE (M THWS)          150.0       121.0      101.0              64.9                      59.7
ACSS TO SAVE NATE (CR0?
tOAL                              ..          3A        23.0              *4.0                      65.3
URN                               ..         10.0       40.0              57.6                      76.5
RURAL                             ..          1.0       18.0              37.1                      44.2
ACCZeSS TO EXCRT& DI3POSAL
(I o POFPULATIOUI
TOTAL                             ..         15.0       23.0              50.1                      56.3
URBAN                             ..         19.0       20.0              52.9                      73.4
58*L                              ..        14.0        24.0              ".7                      25.5
POPULATICO PE PRSICIA           46760.0    26510.0    11530.0 /            7751.7                   1909.7
POP. Pm NUS N  PERSON            4310.0 L   7680.0      2300.0            2464.8                    303.2
POP. PER OSPITAL RED
TOTAL                          1360.0      1650.0     1720.0 h           1112.1                    362.0
WUAN                            250.0         ..       700.0 J           651.4                    422.0
RURAL                             ..          ..      3160.0            2596.9                   2716.7
ADNISSICUS PER EDSPITAL IED         ..          ..         ..               41.1                     27.5
AVIRAGE SUZE OF HOOSENOLO
TOTAL                             4.4        4.3
URBAN                             4.         5.3         ..                 .
RURAL                             4.3        4.7
AtERAGZ N0. Or PRSOKS/ROOK
TOTAL                             ..          1.5
IURBA                             ..         1.6
RDURL                             ..          3.5        .                  ..
PRCUrITMCE OF MIELLINGS VIT- ELCT.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
ORN                               ....
38*1                              ..         ..          .                  ..



AMNEX I
- 26 -                                       Page 2 of 6 pages
INDONESIA              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHECT
INONESIA                             REFERZNCE CROUPS (EIGUITED AVERAES) /a
HN;T                     (MOST RECENT ESTINATE) /b
1sso/-k    197n1bRECECNT             MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960t!    STiIT/b  ASIA 4 PACIFIC       LAT. AMERICA S CAR
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                   71.0        77.0      I00.0              100.7                     106.7
MALE                   16.0        03.0       106.0             104.4                     108.5
FENALE                 58.0        71.0       94.0               97.2                     104.6
SECNDARY: TOTAL                   6.0         15.0       33.0               47.8                      46.2
MALE                   10.0        20.0        38.0              50.6                      42.7
FEMALE                  3.0        10.0       27.0               44.8                      44.9
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDART)         20.4       22.1        13.9               18.4                      13.3
PUPIL-TEAZE  RATIO
PRIUARY                           39.0       29.0        29.0               30.4                      29.9
SECONDARY                         14.0        13.0       16.0               2Z.2                      16.7
COUTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP          1.1         2.1        4.4 ic            10.1                     46.0
RADIO RECEIrERS/THOUSAND FOP        7.2         21.9      131.2              172.9                     328.3
TV RXCEIVElISTIUWSAD POP             0.1        0.8        22.6               58.5                     112.4
MUSPAPER (DAILY GUIRAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER TIIOUSAND POPULA?ION           11.0        ..         14.9               65.3                      91.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA      2.8        ..          1.0 Ic             3.4                      2.4
1M   FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TOWS)         34791.0    41090.0    54417.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 27.8        30.9        29.3               33.6                      23.6
AGRICULTURZ (PERCET               75.0        66.0       58.0 Ic            52.2                      31.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                8.0         10.0       12.0 T             17.9                      24.3
FARTICIPATION RATE (PERCErN)
TOTAL                             36.7        35.4       35.0               38.9                      33.5
MALE                              54.2        49.5       49.6               50.8                      51.3
FEMALE                            20.0        21.6       20.4               26.8                      15.9
ECONMIC DEPENDENCE RATIO             1.2         1.3         1.3               1.1                       1.3
loca= DISUIUTIS
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCQZ
tECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5S OF MOUSEOLDS           ..          ..        23.5 I..
HIGHEgr 20X OF DOSEOLWDS           ..         ..         49.4               48.0
LWEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..         ..          6.6                6.4
LOWEST 4*O  oF HOUSEHOLDS          ..          ..        14.4 7i            15.5
ESTDIATED ABSOLTE POVERTY INCOM
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URDUM                              ..        124.0 /h    124.0 /h            ..                      280.3
RWUAL                              ..        106.0ok th  10.o 7iT          151.9                     185.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY lNCOM
LEVEL (USS PEL CAPITA)
URU                                ..         ..         119.0 /b          177.9                     519.8
RURAL                              ..         ..         98.D 7            164.7                     359.7
ESTMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL CE)
URN                                ..        51.0 /h    26.0 /h             23.5
RURL                               ..         59.07S     44.o7i;            37.8
NOT AVAILABLZ
NOT APPLICALE
N O T E S
/a   The group avarages for each inadcator are population-weighted aritbeetic fmana. Coverage of countries
aong the indicators depends on availability of data aad is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwose noted. 'Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betveen
1969 and 1971; and data for 'Most Recent Estimate" between 1981 and 1983.
/c  1980;  /d 1977:  /a 1979; /f 1962; /I 1976;  lh 1980 pric".
JUNE, 1985



-27-                                       ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6 pages
DW ITUfmm      OF SOCIAL M11CA101111
e_pibi hi. od ts lack ofiadm  dhlou md oseu   _ad by iin  omui h uhtqsedn.l.da  m  isil,id
d~KMrob aiu of inexiiinda. indin. oNMb NaW chsmmhainsl .qfto  dhfinmb.".a oommul&
no u      romp am (I) ft-womtry pow of ido meW.' ineany am (2) a *iUy VWg   nub Asmauh, ar  nr asp I_o,_  tam thu any
jo.hsaue_in). 1. thu _ os      dma se awa ampoar uimws aishmd a  fir  nicaso,   _ ouly wyw  t
(th.coutin inaroep emudaa Ibrtb tbha im eSlmtheonwra tof counirimamoqthe tadlr dapuudlav.i tilsy ofdad ad not unia..
eaion m_umbei iusad in   agum efoanndlnsarsao4mThsavamps_ o amonly mmlii ocorpariag  wa  f m laideCAo  adt aiM
td cay and N I  amnosn
AREA (dtousand sq.im.)                                        CMd* hB   Rare (pw rthno)-Numberoflive birts in the year
rbrd-Total surfae  ame compnrnS land area and inland waer    per tousnd of mid-yar popudaion 1960.1970. and 193 data.
1960.1970 and 1983 dat.                                      Cr;* Dend R.m (pr c1lm.and)-Number of deat  in the year
gF             -Estime of agricultual are used temporaily or  per thoused of mild-yer popWlatio  1960. 1970.  d 1983 data.
peranenldy for crop. patures, market and kitchen grdens or to  Graso Aproin RdeC -Average number of daughters a woman
le fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                          wiu bear in her normal rproductive period if she expene
prment age-dfciic fility rat.; usuay five-year averages erding
GNP PER CAPfTA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at curt         in 1960.1970. and 19113.
arket pnces cakulated by same conversion method as World      F               A         A       (dWaamto-Annual fum-
0amt Atha (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                         berof acceptors of birth-contrd devic  underauspiceosf national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparnt                  famiy plning progamn.
consumption of commrial prinary energy (coal and lgnite.      Faup Pf*--wrVs  (pormto of morrinnewp-The peren-
petroleum natural gas and hydro-. nudear and geothernal cec-  tage of mauied  ome ofchild-bering age wbo are practcing or
tncity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  who  husbands are pracicing any form of conutrpton. Women
1982 data.                                                   of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countr#is contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                               group.
oterelalisfIati. M id- Yedr (thousands -As of July I; 1960. 1970.  FOODANDN      ON
and 1983 data.                                                FO    N    UR O
Urban ?qai.m (pem  of rota)-Ratio of urban to total           In  ef Fd ePdRwde  Ai.r Cdpa (150-71 - IJOrJ-lndex of per
populaton different definitons of urban areas may affect compar  capta annual producton of all food commodities Productio
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.   ixdudes annal feed and seed for agricultr  Food commodities
include primary commodities (eg.g sugarcane instad of sugar)
,pdaprie. Pnjeaim                                             which ae edible and contai nutrients (eg. coffee and tca are
Pop,raoin   year 2000-Thc projection of population for 2000.  exduded); they ompri  cereals, root crops, pulis  oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetabes. fruits. nuts. susucane and sugar bet  livesock and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. nortality rates. and  livstock products. Aggreapte production of each country is based
inernational migation in the base year 1980. these parmeters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projcted at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data
assumptions until the population became stationary.            - CO,s. Siff& efclmi  (perct e f{u mnuJ-comput-
Stationaw populatian-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-spcific  per capita per day. Available supplies comnprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replaceent klvel  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
inet reproduction rate- II. In such a population. the birth rate ts  exelude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requiremnents were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperaturz. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribuuon of population, and allow.ng 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                   waste at household kvel; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popldation omenrtu-ls the tendency for population growth to  Pr Caita Sipply of Pwma{ (graa per deryj-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-leve fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirerents for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is mcasured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to tbe populaiion in  day and 20 grms of animal and puise protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replae-  should be aninal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
rnent lcvd from year r onward. 9S5 data.                      75 grms of total protein and 23 graun of aninal protein as an
Popuiron Degity                                               average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.kn-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data
tares) of tota area 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                hr Cvatka Prtemin S&  Frohm AtaSin mod Fhlse-Protern supply
Per sqAm. agriczdftrlanmd-Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 dat.
Pepakfiou Age Srrncre (prce)-Children (0-14 years). work-    Ca   (ages 1.4) Dea* Roe (per thousad)-lNumber of deaths of
ing age (I5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 14 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year. For most developing countres data derived
14,p.hti. Growth Rat (percemn)-r.eal--Annual growth rates of  from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALTH
Poplnim Growth Rae (percent)-wh.a-Annual growth rates        Lf Eqeesacy at Brt (pws)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.   infant would five if prevailing patterns of mortality ror al people



ANNEX I
- 28.-                                  Pag 4 of 6 papea
at the tme of of In birth weo wutay the in dthroughout is Ufe;  APWUechw  Atdo - prbWy, wd secoW7-Tothl students en-
1960,  70 and 1983 data.                                     rolbd In primry nd uonduy  velb divided by numbers of
li6_ Mu,1t  Roe (.Nur   of Iafnts wbo die                     aeSin i. th corrponding lmb.
before fahng onm year of ae per thousad Ive birth In a Siva
year, 1960.1970 and 1933 dati.                                CONSUMPrION
Acta to * SO    am. (jwerl q' p.  _    I        im,d          hsqw C.. (Pm. enmt       d p    hr cr cam-
rwel-Number of peopb (to4L u li u  d urnal with r_onbl        pdr  motor crs seti  le ta   iht po   excludes bul
acmcge to safe water sp*Pl (clude tueated surfbe wtrs or      ances, heums amd milita  vehiclel.
vaounted but uncom Inated w     such    that from protectd   Rob R.KmP o     ,m. tuhuaendp.p.-AdIm)-AI type of rever.
boreholes, sp    d a  sanitay web) a pemrnta  of their repec  for radio broadcuts to g    pubic per thousand of population;
tive popultn  In an urbn ar  a public froutain or   gt xcludes unliened  nceivers in countris and in yrs when
locatd not more tan 200 meterrom a hous may be cosideredon  ounuiesoand in yu fot
u being within rasnble akm or that hous. In rarl u              rstmon of adio  t was in el ct data for -it yer my
masonable scem would imply that the houewife or membas of h  not be cmparble sn  most countrie abohed lcensing.
household do not have to spend a dispropoionae part of the day  TVRqm.(pm.         dpepdatm)-TV river for broadct
in retching the filys wter need_                             to  dg  public per thond populatin exludes unleed TV
A feto  hEx faiYl    (pom fo_                               reevers in countrie and in year whn reitaion of TV ms wu
mid  ral-Number of people (totaL urban, and ural) served by   in elec.
eceta disposal u pentags of their rpecte populatou.   (prm.                               u    teu IY  * howstheaver-
Excrt dispowl may include the collection and disposaL with or  ae crcultion of Idaily genal intet newspp,- dened u a
without treatment, of human exce and waste-water by water-   peiodica pubicaton devoted primarily to rcording geesl nes.
bome systems or the use of pit privies and similr installations.  It is consided to be "daily" if it appWS at beat four time. a  e.
AP.I1t1dn     Phyuideas-fpulation divided by number of prac-  CinmJ  A_Iae Atsmndm   per Cqpea per Yem.-Bued on the
tising physicia  qualified from a medical school at university kvd.  number of tickets sold during the yem  indcuding admiions to
Pepultln per Nusn Pmwso_.-lpulation divided by number of     dunvein cinemau and mobile units.
prticing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practcl nures and nursng auiliis.                                OR FORCE
Populae p. Hopl Brd--tei4 .           ad rwa -P pulation      TotlW Labor Fom (Shoussuds)-Economically active persns, in-
(total, urban, and  ural) divided by their repective number of  cludig anmed forces and unemployed but excluding houewives,
hospital beds available in puablc-and private. general and specialied  students. ecm, covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hosptals and rhabiitaton center Hospitals are establishmts   vaious countries are not compamrble 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently stffed by at klet one physician. Establishments prov-  Fewsk (perAnt)-FemaLe labor fore a percentage of toul labor
ding principa0y custodial cae are not induded. Rural hospitals  form.
however. ioncude health and medical centers not permanenty staffed  Agvkare (pecen)-Labor force in fiarming forsy, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical asistant. nurse midwife. etc.)    and fishing u percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970and 1980
wwhi ofTer in-pant aommnodation and provide a limited nrn    data.
of medical facilities                                        Inustry (pamcent-Labor force in mining, consrcM, manu-
Adusso wr  oespiea Bed-Total number of admissions to or      facruring and eleticity water and ps as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospial divided by the number of beds.       force: 1960, 1970 and 1980 data
Pkpdti Rate (pect x-ta-l k,_dun
HOUSING                                                      or activity  tes ore computed as total, mal, and female bor fore
A,e Size of HoehdW (pen. per heseUl)-lot, when,              as percentags of totaL male and fmale population of al ages
andraral--A household consit of a group of individuals who shar  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These a  bued on ILO's
living quartm and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participati  atos reflecting aeset suctue of the population. and
may not be included in the household for staical purpowe     long dme rend. A few esimates are from national soures.
Average Number of Pesn pr Roorm-otal. wien, and Pert-        Ecnomic Dependewy Rati-Rado of population under 1S, and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural   65 and over, to the working agc population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exdude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DSERIBUTION
Percntge of DweEngs wit Elescier -tot d, wn, ad nr-  PSerent   of Teot Dspesaek ntm   (both in ca ed ktndJ)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as pecen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively.      hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVETY TARGET GROUPS
A4wtrd Ewafivo Rados                                         The foflowing estmtes are very approxinate meaures of poverty
Rrmary schoo - toaL mgale and fenale-Gross tot&L male and     evels, and should be interpreted with consideable cauon.
female enroUment of aU ages at the primy level as perntag  of  Esdwed Abs r Povery Incom  Leed (US pe  ep          _
rspetiv pnmary school-ag populations While many couni        and rwaL-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 year others do not The  below which a minimal nutritionaUy adequate diet plus essential
differences in countzy practices in the ages and duration of shool  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countnies with universl  Estdmeed Relahe P1vet Inoc.r Levd (U.=per capita)-urien
educaonm gross enrollment may exceed 100 pct nce some       nod  raL-Rural reativc poverty income kvel is one-third of
pupils are beow or above the country's standard primary-school  avema  per capita peson income of the country. Urban level is
ageB                                                         derived from the mral level with adjusment for higher cost of
Secory sciool - tos. mak and femlue-Computed as above;    living in urban ara
secondary education r5quires at les four years of approved pni-  Estimed Ppult. Beow Absollute Pory Ineo   Lvd l(pe-
mary instrucon provides gneraL vocaionaL or teacher training  ceand ua-   f- Prcent of populaio (urban and rurl
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of ae: correspond-  who are 'absolute poor."
ence courss are gerlly excluded.
Vocanal Emiolbmen (percent of secondry)-Vocational insdtu-             Compaive AnalysIs and Data Divion
tions include tchnical industrial or other progams which opeate     Economic Analyss and Projectio  Dearment
indepeadently or as deparents of secondary intituions.                               June 1985



- 29-                                                         M.I I
INNENIIA - EOIIIC INICATIE                                              Page 5 of &
Pepsltiam     a  155.U2 million  loid-IM
UIP per Capita,  UISO II3 Ustiutel
lasal gratb ratSI  n(t contant I3 prilesi
usot                                                 ------------------- ----- -_- - -___ ----------------.................. - ---- -_ ---
(milli" US4 at                         ktual                     Est.                       Projected
cwrrzt  prc   )           -                                        ---    ----------       ._   _.   _ ----    .__ -------_-- ...
Indicator                        19313                   9111     IM2      1903     19m9     1983     1936     1937     1913     1939     199       1995
NATIONAL ACCEJTS
Grua  dwstic product la           9I,076               7.4    -0.3        3.3      6.6      1.1      1.0      2.0      3.2      3.0      3.6       5.0
Agrliclture                     19,468               4.8       1.1      1.9      5.9      3.2      2.5      2.5      2.7      3.0       3.0      3.0
Industry                        29,457               5.0    -3.2        Z.O     11.4    -3.3       1.1      2.7      3.7      2.0      2.4       2.2
Services                        32,152              12.1       7.4      5.3      5.3      4.0      0.0      1.0      3.0      4.0       5.0      0.0
C.asaptiol                        53,712              11.7       2.1    -0.1       1.0      2.1    -0.9       0.9      2.9      3.5       4.4      *.1
gros Innvstas.t                   22,187              32.9      9.3    -10.4       6.1    -7.2    -12.3      -1.4      2.2      4.9      2.6       6.4
Enports of WNFS                   21,949              -9.5    -10.9      14.6      4.8    -2.2       7.7      6.3      5.1      2.1      2.9       1.3
laprts of SNFS                    21,773              20.5      4.4   -11.1   -10.1    -9.9    -13.6          0.4      3.9      5.2      t.2      5.9
Gross national  avings              17,567              -1.7   -11.3       12.0    23.2       0.3     14.1      3.3      2.9      3.0       2.2      2.5
PRICES
P deflatrr 11913200)                                    92       U        100      109      114      125      137      148      157       166      215
Exchange rate 1Np   r WUl                              632      661       909     1026     1111
Shur of GW  at arwkt prices (I)                              Avrage anvual increase (11
fat current prices) lc                              fat cnstant 1983 prices)
1970      97      1930     23       19o      2995            1970-75  1975-90   9190-85  1985-90  1990-5
erms domstic product                          100      100       100      100      100      too               9.4      7.4      3.6      2.6      4.2
Agriculture                                  47       32       25       24        25       23               4.1      3.3      3.4     L27       3.0
Industry                                     10       34       41       35        35       31              12.0      9.9      0.6      2.4       1.9
Servicus                                     35       35       35       40        40       45               9.7      9.5      b.B      2.6      6.7
Cenusption                                     99       79       71       H9        he       71               9.4      9.2      3.2      2.1      5.2
Gross in cstt                                  14       20       23        25       21       22              19.3     12.2      5.0     -1.0      5.2
Espots prf WS                                  13       73       32       26       29        25               9.2      2.9    -1.1       4.9       1.2
mports of 6IFS                                -16      -22      -27      -20      -to      -2S               22.1     14.0    -LO       -0.3      4.5
Gross  satiosl savings                          9       17       25       25       29       25               23.1     14.2      3.9      5.0      2.3
As I o4 GDP
1970              1975              1900              19E4
PIILIC FINANE lb
Current revnuem                                                                   10.1              17.4              20.9              19.6
Currnt expsnditures                                                                9.4               9.9              11.9              11.0
Surplus                                                                            1.6               7.5               9.0               7.6
Capital expenditure                                                               5.0               11.3              12.1              11.t
Foreign financing                                                                  3.5               3.7               3.1               4.0
1970-75          1975-90            1910-1O           198590            190-95
OTam  INDICA-liS
Ainual W1P growth rate I21                                               7.6                7.1               3.4               2.9               4.4
baal GNP per capita grouth rate it)                                      5.1               4.7                1.2               0.9               2.3
Anual osrgy conusuptin growth rate ID2                                   11.2              11.0              N.A.              N. A.             N.A.
icES                                                                     2.2               3.3                7.9               9.5               5.0
Nrpinal savings fate                                                     0.48              0.29              0.27              0.51              0.15
Import elasticitv                                                        2.9              0.94              -0.55             -0.10              1.07
la At sarket price
lb  Central  ovarnmnt only, on an April-to-March fiscal yer  basis.
7c At cemstant prices fr 1980 osn.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Bav 19B6



mmmii - tNtAEO -ieMISa, (DIE  CeVTL a m R nu...
HUm sill.  at cant lucaS
Paonataiu,    a  303.62 miliii. WaId El
DIP Pr Capita.   054   IllS aulasatel
.. ... .. ..__........ .... ... __............ _. ........_. __... ... ..... _... . . ...    __ ..... . ...... ... . ....... . .. .. .......
ctual                 i'lit.                   Prjecte
, ._._ __ _~~~~~~~~.  ..__ ... _........ .. . . ........... _... . _._ .__ ..... . _..
It13 l   112      1tt3 l    114      I3      I91b     LIM1      19111    39m     I 39' me   m
--------- --.--------. . ........ I........ ..................._ ............... _............ .............. .. .. . ..... . .......... ................... .... . .....
uLa Iif Pawelg r
............ ...............
1    ' wiets                                          2.m1   39,372   20,J2n   20,921   36,65   10,1611  ,nm    20,n             22,m    2-5,01   35,mnt
iII ail WA  La  totsl                             11,21   14,140   14,0W   14.029   12,425    1,4          9,722   11,151   12,5I    3,13I    11.T1t
lb) k..i1                                          4.110    3,921   5,30    5,901    5,101    A,=2    1,114    1,113    1,21    10.396   11 3,6
Iti IFS                                              III      500       01z      51       All      n1         20      952    1,131    1,251    2,134
:.  Irt,                                              22,M    22,339   2,12    n1,n4   31,14   15,209   11,104  11,t3&   19,521   21,212   32,13
.al ail  ftw                                       5,401      ,1102    3,1     2.495    3,109    3.0       3,3 115    3,,    2M,94     4,2n    *,124
llop b.o     aowta                                14,536   15,124   14.2t    12,15   10125    9,992   30,0k   13,655   12,111   140,92    21,301
itti 01                                            2,931.221          2,142    2,147   2,240    2,22S    2,33    2,s521    2.144    2,11    4,15
S. Onnorc      e tall.                                    424    3,11471    115    3,t91    2,213      ;3121   3,314    3,151    ,4t1    3,25t   4,715
4. factuw sar.ict                                      11.2301  13,4201  C4.3291  15,0459  10,1121  1 3,h5I  14,251  14,1311  15,t231  13,2521  4,5211
.al  Iuc.agtm                                      2,1n    1,209        19       910      9I4   tlI    9,0"0          "5    3,023       1935      II
061 Payots                                        i4,90    i4,r29,  15,642 %4,0411  i5,114   1,5401  15,2II        Is,9o     11,00    1.ll   a211
5.  C tal ireta                                            41      105       9n       ot0      130      IO        1350     150      I30       351      150
I ISaa c.  ca rren  t C_.."                            12,1171   .1,a2l  14,210)  11,060   11,960    15,S51  12,5191  112911  11,4311   11,243   111.421
l,rKt r reap aie.vt.at                               1al      311       939      245      21        230      125       425      49t      ioo      909
0. Patl  ii t LI Ian                                    1,321    3,00    3,11 3    2,.20    1,151    3.12    '2,914    311i   3,.493        I5   1.212
9   Ot lr ctttIal 26011                                   6143     031    2.15        42    1,051       416    l119      113OI    15121    12211      35
13. Ctmae is raw,.",  - msac rl                          9      3,M350   11.19      94293    14141        4        lo0     I        IlI      12    11aw
It. 30   flcial raiwrn                                 6.354   3.04    4n 3    5.312    5.111    5.6           5.312    5.1103    3.119   5,19      5.110
mwets . WS                                         4.4      :         3.5      4.3      54.       5.1       .4 M    L         4.5      4.1      2.1
Parade Its
..... .. .....
Nt Ireo p  sct' of tle
bakting systma lb                               IT,=      *.::      1.4 6.   *,531    0,5914    9,900   9t60    9,0 3.      4 I,.30     Ior7   36.2117
Total rarrws is *auth d
ani  I uports  IIWS                                 7.3     0 2       .2       1.1      9.1       9.17     9.1       9.5      71        7.3      4.1
EITEMtiL  WITn, a  NO    IC
Gras laiburanta                                       2.1n    0., 12    4.,14     3.846    3.524
CacsaY     l Lam                                         194     in        itS    5S2        130
lIlartal                                              1I      402      141       48R      523
3ts                                                   1        7r       40        54       5e
Other                                                  I         I        a       39       31
srcmnaoisal Lam                                        1,1      3,503    4,357    3.213    2.t9
Ofical mport credit                                  Il      531       63       4"a      121
iOO                                                  33       505       40       m        13
.ler Mlt3latWral                                      is       12tb    ith       143      li
Pravata-swrce                                      13,      2,336    3,220   13,9        1,1
ealarlal Dalt #d
al eatstadaal A daswid                            35JIG0  3s,515   21.687   22.,12   24,462
OFllcaalWtce                                    10,5    11.11:   12,031   12,821   3,914
Prnvatre-re                                      5j111    7,402    9,44l  11,001   3 1,18
aedlsS ad 6.bt                                    33,37   12.670   13.11    13 .971   330n
DMt Sar,ara
total wirne   arornts                              2,007   2.244    2,5481  3S251    4,039
Iaterest                                          I94)  11,1451  (.255   11,1241  11t4541
Poygts n t 1 iparts ia                                1.2     11.1     12.0     14.6      11.1
Total SaDt w.ace ratio If                            30.4   134.4      3.7      19.    23.4
Araqe   lIatrni  atae as Pa Los. III                    S.7      9,2       1.1      9.1      1.1
111itll-,owcs                                        1.1      1.1       1.7      8.1      1,4
PriaOte-sfoigrc                                      94       9.5       1.1      9.9      0.5
hwaqs Ilataraity of aM LosM (lsl                        15.5     13.2     15.     15.9      15.9
Of4acalimrcs                                        20.5    20.4       22.3     20.9     21.1
Pritato-.uco                                         11.1     11.1     13.3      9.2      7.4
.__ - --__ .__,_._ -------                ___ .... .                                                                 . . _ ___ ........... ___._ ___._.__.._______.........
As I ci dolt sotstsandag at ad 4 1965
Itoraty ott ct.w' of dsalt StOtdaal-
atrLthn daratain 3 . rs ar                                                           3
RIatritin doa alths  10 vra                                                          47
lattret structr df debt atst anidf
Interest rn e  ithi  first vor                                                      4.5
1. ID a  Aerii1-aIich fiscal coa bna.
b   II esn, foaep amidt of daose t aay bIsi  ia aiditat   to offacral rn es.
re bImlaas priito d rnr,qarntad Lass me LO a.siam.
Id It ad af wartD.
to  3bl nports trcatod an  ross bous.  EaWts iaclade srnasn. DOlt u re acldd                  praoyat ol nadacatcd LaoM asn  903.
14   Irclados varate  uiwq,rootd   ams.
East ouia Ad pactiac iqisat OI4ace
Ia, 191



-31 -                        ANNEX rI
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1986) /a
Loan/                                                          Amount (USs million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Forty Loans and forty-four Credits fully
disbursed                                                1,971.86   777.89         -
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                             109.00      -         22.96
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II            50.50      -         10.40
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                       53.60      -          9.14
1707    1979   Transmigration II                             90.00      -         75.49
1708    1979   Eighth Power                                 175.00      -         37.34
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                           35.49      -          4.87
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                    -      12.00        5.50
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III           92.00      -         23.85
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                            -      37.60        5.53
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II               -      39.00       19.26
L811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                        116.00      -         36.55
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV            30.00      -         15.69
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research                35.00      -         35.00
1014    1980   National Agriculturai Research                  -      30.00        0.56
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                  253.00      -         65.46
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development               25.00      -         10.51
1904    1981   University Development                        45.00      -         31.26
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                  250.00      -         10.97
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                             22.00      -         11.70
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                      43.00      -         19.66
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V            134.00       -        80.69
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                      85.00       -        66.60
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                               170.00       -        39.42
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                  15.00      -          9.34
la  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



-32-                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (Less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                 185.00       -        65.84
2083    1982   RuraL Roads Development                       85.00       -        32.27
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                       79.59       -        64.19
2102    1982   Second Textbook                               25.00       -        21.22
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                          37.00       -        15.66
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java             70.00       -        36.31
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution              66.00       -        31.35
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI            55.50       -        43.77
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                  25.00       -        14.56
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering        5.50       -         4.03
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                                300.00       -       223.08
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII          138.90       -       136.43
2235    1983   Provincial Health                             27.00       -        23.25
i2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation               22.40      -         19.22
2248    1983   Transmigration III                           101.00       -        54.16
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development             30.00       -        24.74
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                        30.60       -        17.35
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                                208.90       -       131.24
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                             63.50       -        59.14
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                           107.40       -       105.47
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                             279.00       -       171.84
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                   63.30       -        52.43
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar          79.20       -        47.84
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                   43.00       -        34.89
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.             89.00       -        60.31
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                           240.00       -       185.23
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                       39.25       -        35.45
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development           204.65       -        96.73
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                      65.00       -        62.73
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                             210.00       -       196.07
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND)                                 50.00       -        19.75
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                   78.00       -        73.58



- 33                         ANNEX rI
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation           11.30       -        11.27
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development I1            131.00       -       131.00
2529    1985   Fourth Population                             46.00       -        46.00
2542    1985   Second Health (Manpower Development)          39.00       -        39.00
2543    1985   Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and
Irrigation                                156.00      -        156.00
2547    1985   Second University Development                147.00       -       147.00
2560    1985   West Tarum Canal Improvement                  43.40       -        43.40
2577    1985   National Ports Development                   111.00       -       111.00
2578    1985   Transmigration V /a                          160.00       -       160.00
259-9   1986   Science and Technology Training               93.00       -        93.00
2628    1986   Smallholder Cattle Development /a             32.00       -        32.00
2632    1986   Second East Java Water Supply /a              43.30       -        43.30
2636    1986   Second Nutrition and Community Health         33.40       -        33.40
2638    1986   Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Support /a          33.00       -        33.00
2649    1986   Central and West Java Irrigation /a          166.00       -       166.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits          8,149.54   896.49
Of which has been repaid                   -577.51   -23.38
Total now outstanding                     7,572.03   873.11
Amount sold to third party         28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24         -
TotaL now held by Bank and IDA /b         7,572.03   873.11
Total undisbursed /c                                           4,053.25
/a  Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.
/c Includes loans not yet effective.



- 34 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1986)
Fiscal                                                                 Loan  Equity  Total
year   Obligor                              Type of business          -- (US$ million) --
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                    10.6    2.5    13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                          Textiles                   2.5    0.8      3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia            Textiles                   2.0    0.5      2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia                 Cable                      2.8    0.4      3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                      4.5    1.5      6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel              Tourism                    9.8    1.6    11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                     5.4    0.7       6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia            Textiles                   2.0    0.3       2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan                    Electronics                0.9      -      0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                           Dev. fin. co.               -      0.5      0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                        Textiles                   2.4    0.6       3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                     5.0    1.5       6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                      -      1.1     1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                      0.4      -      0.4
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                        Textiles                   1.3    0.2       1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                         Textiles                   0.9      -      0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera                 Capital market             4.0    1.2      5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American Industries        Glass dinnerware          11.1    0.9    i2.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas Indonesia         Cement and construc-
tion material          48.0    5.0    53.0
1982/5  P.T. Saseka Celora Leasing           Capital market             5.0    0.3      5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                    25.0      -     25.0
Total gross commitments                                       143.6   19.6   163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                           110.8    7.3   118.1
Total held by IFC                                              32.8   12.3    45.1
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)                   1.0             1.0



- 35 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:          22 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:          Office of the State Minister for
Housing, with BTN and PERUMNAS
assistance
(c) First presentation for Bank
consideration:                          November 1983
td)  Completion of the appraisal             October 1985
(e)  Completion of negotiations:             Hay 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          October 1986
Section II:  Special Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) BTN would adopt a Policy Statement and carry out an Institutional
Action Program satisfactory to the Bank, and periodic progress
reviews would be carried out with the Bank (para. 38);
Cb) PERUMNAS would carry out an Institutional Action Program
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 40); and
(c) Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i)   formal adoption of the Policy Statement by BTN's Board of
Directors (para. 38);
(ii)   appointment of required consultants by BTN (para. 49);
(iii)   the signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between GOI and BTN
and between COI and PERUMNAS (para. 51); and
Civ)   formalization of financing arrangements for provision of Bank
Indonesia liquidity credits to BTN (para. 51).



t_-    ,THAILAND    6til;                                                                tD 
BEnda n ceb A                                                                                                           *.c;-  .
13                  MALAYSIA            South  Chi:a  Sea                     BRUNEi
*M~1 -                                                                                   I  . , / ,   w>\//
12    9    -              I                                 MALAYSIA  /           17   0
-  ,, 'INGAPORE                                 *-,>.
knb.Pekmib.-r'   r
9                          POak,IU         KALI    AN    A N                          /
Paclang                                                4 
*                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 5
1 D.K.I JAKARTA  -          A      A   ,-                                     P; Pag-u \_)
2 JAWA BA RAT  -'                    P ng .                                                     -.            20
~ AWA TENGAH              7      8      U                                                                 -
0.1 Y**OGYAKARTA                                  BEJTuHGI                                 .16
5 JAWA TIMUR         Bengkulua_                          -' Beni n16
BENGKULU                                 6                                                                              L.
V   a SUMATERA SELATAN
1JAM TRIAungkngf                                                         Java  Sea          UJungndn        im
10 JAMBI                                                                                                      % 1
11 SUMATERA BARAT                      .  r ,- .
12 SUMATERA UTARA
13 OIACEH 
14 KALIMANTAN BARAT                                           -   3
15 KALIMANTAN TENGAH                       -:                     3 : -----
t6 KALIMANTAN SELATAN                           ,    0-'-  a. ;t.
17 KALIMANTANTIMUR                                                 - -         Surabara
18 SULAWESI TENGAH                                                  *        5 2SWMAWA
1g SULAWESI UTARA                                                            5                           'X WBA--A
20 SULAWESI SELATAN                                                4          -        lutatam-' (- Y'    r'-  -
21 SULAWESI TENGGARA                                              4
22 BALI                                                                                                     /     L
10o 23 NUSATENGGARABARAT                      Indian  Oceac 23
24 NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR
25 MALUKU                    *            ,e 1    =2
26 IRIAN ,JAYA                                                                                                           24~a~i.   ~w~~.m
27 TIMORTIUR Wj R .
1.                      I06                      11C0                     11F                     120



IBRD 19760
120'                       12S'                      130'                      130'1                      140'
I io-                                                                          455
-1--.    s   PHILIPPINES
INDONESIA
BANK TABUNGAN NEGARA
(                             Manado
*                                         0  ~~~~~~~~~PMAONc H&4QMRIB
J       "                    tR~~~~~~ALAo/AAHERA                         N  ONO
19
*id&       '18
Palu                                 25
Jay*pur1ao--,
_j.ULAWYLWESI  \                                                                                     i
.-' 21                                    <                                         - eN IRIAN JAYA
20  SULAWESI                                                       I~-.   CEm 
-Kendari               BURU Ambw                                                    26              !
B2anda Sea                                                                           a.
.                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
FLORES                                                                                                  X
-- _I ;     UMOR                      Q      100    200    300    400    500                  10
W0I.ES
24    Kupang          27                              0  100  200 300  400  500  S00  700  800
KILOMETERS
12D                        120'                        130                       13'                         140'
JUNE 1985






