Docwnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6053-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
May 29, 1986
Urban and Water Supply Division
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1985)
Currency Unit   Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1      =   Rp 1,100
Rp 1 mln  =   US$909
FISCAL YEAR
GOI: April 1 - March 31
State Banks: January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 sq meter (sq m)         =       10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 hectare (ha)            =       10,000 sq m or 2.471 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BI             -    Bank Indonesia (the Central Bank)
BKPN           -    National Housing Policy Board
BPKP           -    State Audit Agency
BTN            -    Bank Tabungan Negara (a State Savings and Housing Bank)
CL             -    Commitment Letter
GOI            -    Government of Indonesia
KIP            -    Kampung Improvement Program
KPR            -    Public Homeownership Credit
LPPI           -    Institution for the Development of Banking in Indonesia
MOF            -    Ministry of Finance
PERUMNAS       -    National Urban Development Corporation
REPELITA       -    National Five Year Development Plan
TUM-KPR        -    Downpayment Savings Scheme



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Republic of Indonesia.
Beneficiary Agency:        Bank Tabungan Negara (BTN) and National Urban
Development Corporation (PERUMMAS).
Loan Amount:               US$275 million equivalent.
Loan Terms:                Standard variable interest rate and 20 year term
including 5 years of grace.
On-lending Terms:          The Government of Indonesia (Got) would on-lead
US$268.9 million equivalent to BTN for mortgage
financing at a fixed interest rate of 11.5% with a
repayment term of 20 years including 5 years of
grace. COI will bear the foreign exchange and
interest rate fluctuation risks of the Bank loan.
The end-user terms for mortgage loans would be 9-15X
interest rates with a 20 year repayment period. The
remaining US$6.1 million would be provided to BTU,
PERUMNAS and the Office of the State Minister for
Housing for technical assistance and related
equipment.
Project Description:       The key project objectives are to:  (a) expand
access to housing finance for low and middle income
households; (b) reduce overall subsidies and target
the remaining subsidies to the lowest income groups;
(c) reduce the reliance of the housing finance
system on government funds and introduce new instru-
ments for resource mobilization; (d) stimulate the
production of more low-cost housing by both public
and private developers; (e) generate employment at
low foreign exchange cost; and (f) strengthen the
key institutions in the housing sector, nawely BTN
and PERUMNAS, and assist the Office of the State
Minister for Housing in developing and monitoring
sector policies and programs. The loan comprises:
(a) a credit line to BTN which would be used to
finance a share of total mortgage lending
commitments (covering 195,000 housing units) during
the last three years 'f the Fourth Five Year Plan or
Repelita IV (1986-(7 to 1988-89); and (b) technical
assistance for BTN, PERAMNAS and the Office of the
State Minister for liBuirtg.
Thi document has  restrictd distribution and may be ued by rcipients onb in the prfomnce
of their offci duties. its contents may not otherwse be discOed without World Dank autrination.



- ii -
Project Risks:            The risks associated with this project irllude:
(a) the possibility that institution-building
efforts at STU could be prolonged and consequently
BTU's effectiveness in performing the functions
assigned to it under the project would be reduced;
(b) the risk that BTU will not fully implement GOI's
new policies regarding the size distribution of
units and that its recent lending patterns will
continue; (c) the risk that because of loan
processing and other problems, PERUMNAS' deliv'iry
capacity will be limited; and (d) the risk that
higher income groups will appropriate the housing
targetted for lower income groups, due to strong
demand and limited overall supply of housing.  These
risks have all been taken into account in designing
the project and are believed to be manageable
through the proposed STU Policy Statement, BTN and
PERUMNAS Institutional Action Programs, Technical
Assistance and the proposed periodic reviews of the
program.
Estimated Costs:
Local        Foreign        Total
-         IJS$ million--------… --
Housing Program                            962.1         240.5        1,202.6
Technical Assistance and Equipment           2.9            3.2           6.1
Project Cost /a                          965.0         243.7        1,208.7
Financing Plan:
Beneficiary Downpayments                 272.7            -           272.7
Government Budget                        200.0            -           200.0
Bank Indonesia                           162.0            -           162.0
BTU                                      299.0            -           299.0
World Bank                                31.3         243.7          275.0
Total                                   965.0         243.7        1,208.7
Estimated Disbursements   FY         1987     1988      1989      1990      1991
Annual                            22.0     88.0      96.3      48.9      19.8
Cumulative                        22.0    110.0     206.3    255.2      275.0
Rate of Return: 15S
/a Including taxes and duties estimated at US$60 million equivalent.



- iii -
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. THE HOUSING SECTOR.     . ...... ......     .....-...... *             1
A.  Housing Demand and Su               p     p      l     y           1
B.  Housing Policies, Institutions and Programs..............          2
C.  Sectoral Issues and Constraints..........................z 3
D.  Recent Policy Developments.,.......... e..e...........o.           4
E. Experience with Past Bank Lending and Future Lending
Strategy .... . v........ ...... .......... ......... .................5
II.  THE BANK TABUWGAN NEGARA (BTN)...............................          6
A.  Legal Status, Objectives and Functions..ctions...........          6
B.  Organization, Management and Staffingaffing..............          6
C.  Policies and Procedures........... .........,..e.e.....o.          7
D. Links with PERIUMAS         .................. ....... * . o.       8
E.  Operational Performance. ....,..o.......................          10
F.  Financial Performance.... ...... e...... ......e.e. *...          11
III.  THE PROJECT .......... O..........                                     13
A.  Project Origin and Formulation ...........................        13
B.  Project Objectives, Description and Costs................         14
C.  Financing Plan and On-Lending Termse         r    ms..................  15
D.  Eligibility, Review and Approval Procedureso........o...o         17
E.  Procurement and Disbursements..o...o......eo.e..o....oo..         17
F.  Accounts and Auti                              t       s          18
G.  Monitoring and Supervisionp e rv i si............on..........     19
IV.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS..... ............. . ....... ....   .       19
V.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMME NDATIONS..............            21
This report is based on the findings of a Pre-appraisal Mission
(July/August 1985) consisting of Messrs. J. Riderman (Mission Leader),
N. Munjee and N. Rovshen (Consultants) and a Post-Appraisal Mission
(February/March 1986) consisting of Messrs. J. Biderman (Mission Leader),
T. lizuka, J.F. Tandeau, S. Malpezzi and N. Rovshen (Consultant).
Messrs. B. Babson, F. Ford and P. Stott and Ms. K. Nordlander also
participated in the Post-Appraisal mission. Ms. F. Fernandes assisted in
preparing the report.



- iv -
1.   Detailed Program Composition and Affordability Analysis
2. BTN's Projected Financial Statements
3.  PERUMNAS
4. BTN Policy Statement
5.   STN Institutional Action Program
6.   PERUMNAS Institutional Action Program
7.   Technical Assistance
8.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9.   Documents Available in the Project File
10. G0I Housing Sector Policy Statement
MAP
Location of BTN Branches.



INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
I. THE HOUSING SECTOR
A. Housing Demand and Supply
1.01     The urban population of Indonesia increased at a rate of about
4Z per year during the decade of the 19709, reaching 33 million in 1980, which
represented 22X of the country's total population of 147 million. The urban
population is expected to continue growing at a rate of more than 4% per year
(almost twice the overall population growth rate) during the next two decades,
leading to an urban population of 76 million or 36Z of the total by the year
2000. Every year, an estimated 2.2 million new urban residents (o., 40O,C3O
households) will require housing and urban services. In addition, nearly two-
thirds of the urban housing stock in 1980-81 was built out of semi-permanent
or temporary materials (often with a useful life of less than ten years). The
upgrading and replacement of these existing dwellings constitutes a signifi-
cant qualitative backlog. Moreover, about 161 of the estimated 6.2 million
urban households in 1980 shared their dwelling unit with at least one other
household, indicating a considerable quantitative backlog as well.
1.02      The supply of housing is segmented into (a) a formal or regulated
supply produced in accordance with government regulations by private and
public sector developers who have legal access to land and institutional
finance; and (b) an informal or unregulated supply produced by itndividuals and
builders lacking legal access to land and finance and providing an often
physically deficient and legally insecure shelter. The annual cutput of the
formal housing developers has ranged from about 40,000 to 65,000 units during
the past five years, with private developers accounting for an increasing
share of the total (more than 801 of total output in 1984-85). This annual
output represents less than 20% of estimated annual household formation during
this period. Moreover, supply patterns have been shifting during the last
five years towards more profitable larger units, and therefore do not corres-
pond to the structure of demand, which is heavily weighted towards the low
cost units affordable by the bulk of the population. In view of the limited
formal housing supply, most urban households have relied on informal builders
and creditors to meet minimal shelter requirements. Informal housing
construction has been quantitatively very significant, but the widening gap
between formal supply and demand has generated a large qualitative and
quantitative backlog of unsatisfied demand for housing (para 1.01). To reduce
this backlog, the total volume of new housing needed during the next two
decades will significantly exceed the estimated 400,000 units per year
required to accommodate new households.



-2-
B. Housing Policies, Institutions and Programs
1.03      Over the past decade, government housing policies and programs have
evolved from a relatively marginal activity to a key compionent of social
policy. The government's first policy initiatives in the housing sector began
in 1974 with the establishment of the National Urban Development Corporation
(PERUMMAS) to produce low cost housing, the National Housing Policy Board
(MNI) to coordinate housing policy, and a homeownership financing program
(KPR) for purchasers of PEfUMNAS housing, through the State Savings Bank (Bank
Tabungan Negara or BTN). Although the scale of PERUMNAS' program remained
quite limited in relation to overall demand, PERUMNAS steadily expanded its
output from 50,000 units constructed during Repelita II (1974-79) to approxi-
mately 80,000 units built during ReRelita III (1979-84). More than half of
these were core units of 15 to 21 m' built on serviced sites with design
standards and costs affordable by low income urban families.
1.04      Government housing policy was expanded in 1978 when BTN was
authorised to provide mortgage finance for housing units built by private
developers and construction finance was made available through the state
comercial banks for up to 75% of total construction costs.  In addition, the
Covernment created a Junior Minister of Housing position under the BKPN
tsubsequently upgraded to full State Ministry status in 1982) to more
effectively formulate and coordinate housing policy, in collaboration with the
Ministry of Public Works. BTU processed only a few thousand mortgage loans
during Repelita II (1974-79) but its mortgagj lending operations increased
rapidly during Repelita III (1979-84) when it processed loans for more than
190,000 units (of which 45% were built by PERUMNAS).
1.05      By the end of Repelita III, BTN and PERUMNAS had become the dominant
institutions in the housing sector, under the general guidance of the Office
of the State Minister for Housing and the Ministry of Public Works. The basic
policy framework established over the previous decade was to build or provide
mortgage financing for housing aimed at households between the 20th and the
80th percentile of the urban income distribution (equivalent to monthly
incomes of about Rp 80,000 and Rp 300,000 respectively, in 1985), with the
Kampung Improvement Program (KIP) addressing the need for shelter-related
services for those below the 20th percentile. In general terms, PERUMNAS
housing was aimed at those below the median income (approximately Rp 175,000
per month in 1985) and the privately built units financed by BTN catered to
the needs of those above the median income. The housing finance system has
continued to be dominated by BTN, designated as the main financial interme-
diary in the sector. Other institutional sources of housing finance, such as
a semi-private mortgage institution (P.T. Papan Sejahtera) established in
1980, cater to a higher income clientele (over Rp 300,000 per month) on a very
limited scale, averaging less than 1,000 loans per year. Apart from BTN and
P.T. Papan, there are no other srscialized mortgage lending institutions in
Indonesia, though some large employers, insurance companies, and commercial
banks provide housing loans to their employees and clients.
1.06      In accordance with Government policy, BTN has provided mortgage
loans for up to 90-95% of the value of housing units at highly concessionary
interest rates ranging from 5 to 9% over a 5 to 20 year term. These high loan



- 3 -
to value rEtios and low lending rates have been made possible by an annual
flow of government funds into BTU to finance the housing program. The funds
used by BTU to finance PERUMNiS housing have been obtained from yearly budge-
tary allocations, and since 1982 all funds for PERUMNAS have been channelled
through BTU as mortgage finance rather than directly as construction finance.
BTN's mortgage lending for privately-developed units has been financed by low
cost (3X) liquidity credits from Bank Indonesia and to a much lesser extent
(about 10% of funding requirements) from the Tabanas savings program, through
which BTU mobilizes individual savings, largely via the post office network.
Housing is one of the priority programs qualifying for Bank Indonesia
liquidity credits, through which the government has traditionally channeled
its financial savings into the banking system to achieve a variety of develop-
ment objectives. The low cost of these funds has enabled BTN to maintaib low
mottgage lending rates, following government policy in the sector.
C. Sectoral Issues and Constraints
1.07      Although the government policies and programs described above have
led to a significant increase in housing production and mortgage financing
during the past five years, a variety of constraints have limited the impact
and potential for expansion of these steps. First, artificially low mortgage
lending rates have been maintained by BTN through an almost complete rel.ance
on government funds. These lending rates have in turn sharply limited ITN's
capacity to mobilize non-government resources in order to expand mortgage
finance. Therefore, the availability of housing finance, and hence the supply
of housing, has been heavily constrained by government leading policies.
1.08      Secondly, the subsidies implied by BTN's lending terms have not been
closely targetted to the lowest income groups. From the outset, a wide range
of income groups has had access to subsidized mortgage finance (para. 1.05).
Moreover, due io the shift in BTN lending in recent years towards the larger
units (45-70 m ) produced by private developers, the bulk of the subsidies
have in fact been received by higher income households. Although PERUUNAS
expanded its low cost housing program considerably during Repelita III, BTN
mortgage lending for privately constructed units increased much more rapidly,
in response to the strong demand for housing finance generated by developers
building highly profitable larger units. Hence, BTN funds have been
increasingly directed to the corresponding narrower segments of the housing
market (i.e., those with incomes above the median). This trend in the
composition of BTN's lending program continued into Repelita IV, raising
questions about the allocation and distribution of government resources.
1.09      In addition to the above-mentioned constraints, a number of problems
of a policy, institutional or regulatory nature have limited the effectiveness
of the government's housing policies. PERUMNAS' lack of autonomy with regard
to project selection, pricing, allocation and sales policies, coupled with
BTN's loan processing bottlenecks (para. 2.08 and Annex 3) led, inter alia, to
the following: (a) slow mortgage loan processing for PERUMEAS beneficiaries,
resulting in a large backlog of unsold units by the end of Bepelita III, and a
slow4own in the pace of construction due to the lack of sales revenue;
(b) preferential treatment to certain occupational groups (i.e., civil
servants) in the allocation of units; and (c) construction of housing for



- 4 -
which there is limited demand, such as flets in larger cities, and projects in
a large number of small cities to further the government's geographical equity
objectives. Land and regulatory bottlenecks have also constrained the supply
of housing. Cumbersome procedures for land acquisition, combined with land
speculation, have increased the time and cost required to secure adequate land
for housing construction. Moreover, the restrictive regulations affecting
private land and housing development (e.g., prohibiting developers from
building small units or requiring a minimum plot size) and the difficulty and
delays in obtaining land titles have limited access to formal housing finance
and restricted investment in housing.
D. Recent Policy Developments
1.10      In September 1985, after extensive discussion of sectoral con-
straints (para. 1.07-1.09), the government took several policy initiatives
designed to improve sector performance. These measures included: (a) an
upward revision of mortgage lending rates to a range of 9-15X; (b) raising
downpayment requirements to 10-40X of house values; (c) the explicit redirec-
tion of BTN's lending program for the remaining three years of Repelita IV
towards smaller mortgage loans affordable by lower and middle income groups;
(d) the introduction of a fully blended system of funding which limits low
cost government funds for BTU and encourages BTN to mobilize non-government
resources; (e) giving developers other than PERUMNAS permission to build house
types below 36 m'; and (f) guaranteeing access to government-supported housing
to any person whose income is below the prescribed ceiling (Rp 300,000 per
month) without restrictions based on occupational status. In addition, the
government recently initiated specific measures to strengthen sector institu-
tions, including management, procedural, and other institutional changes
involving 8TU and PERUMNAS.
1.11      The new higher lending terms represent a major change which would
reduce the magnitude and improve the targeting of interest subsidies, while
allowing BTN to mobilize more nongovernment resources. Although the new
interest rates remain bnlow commercial lending terms (e.g., 18% for
P.T. Papan's mortgage loans), with local inflation rates projected at 6X or
less in the foreseeable future, interest rates of 9-15% would clearly be
positive in real terms, in contrast to negative mortgage lending rates over
the past three years. Moreover, this upward revision of mortgage lending
terms constitutes an important step in the context of an overall financial
sector strategy of reducing the excessive reliance of priority credit programs
on BI liquidity credits (Indonesia, Policies and Prospects for Long Term
Financial Development, Report No. 5501-IND dated July 10, 1985).
1.12      The reorientation of ITNts lending program would completely reverse
recent trends and channel more than twc. thirds of BTN mortgage loans and about
half of the mortgage funding commitments for the remaining three years of
Repelita IV to the low-cost units affordable by households at or below the
median income (para. 2.12). The changes in the composition of the program
would enable BTU to reach more households at a lower total program cost and
target interest subsidies more closely to the lowest income groups. To
address the large deriand for housing the government plans to provide mortgage
finance for some 325,000 units in Repelita IV (1984-89), of which about



-5-
130,000 have already been financed in the first two years. The remaining
three year program of 195,000 units would be distributed in accordance with
the recently announced policy changes (i.e., at least 135,000 units would be
36 m units or smaller, affordable by households at or below the median
income). To achieve this distribution, the government announced that in
addition to PERUMNAS, ?rivate developers will now also be permitted to build
house types below 36 m . This very important regulatory change may not be
enough to induce private developers to build a large volume of low-cost
housing immediately, but it eliminated a key regulatory restriction in the
sector. Further modifications in the regulatory and incentive system faced by
housing developers are expected to emerge from a housing market study under
the proposed loan, which would examine demand patterns and supply processes
for housing and identify constraints and solutions.
1.13      The recent measures taken by the government, formally announced in a
Ministerial Decree dated September 10, 1985 and a letter to BTN's Board from
Bank Indonesia dated September 9, 1985, represent a very significant turning
point in the evolution of Indonesian housing policy. These changes in sector
policies and related regulatory and institutional measures constitute an
important step in the longer term process of sector rationalization and
provide the basis for the proposed Bank loan. To provide a broader context
for these measures, the government has prepared a Housing Sector Policy
Statement (summary attached as Annex 10) which outlines current and future
objectives as well as arrangements for implementation and monitoring of recent
policy changes. The objectives that the government intends to pursue include:
(a) further reduction and better targetting of subsidies; (b) the elimination
of regulatory controls which adversely affect housing supply; and (c) the
introduction of more competition in the mortgage financing market.
E. Experience with Past Bank Lending and Future Lending Strategy
1.14      Bank involvement in Indonesia's housing sector dates bank to the
intitial sites and services component included in the Jakarta Urban Develop-
ment Project (Loan 1040-IND, 1974) which financed some 8,000 serviced residen-
tial lots (most with a core unit) and also provided start-up assistance for
PERUMNAS and BTN housing activities. The project was completed in December
1980 and the PPAR was issued in June 1983 (Report No. 4620). The PPAR noted
early disagreements over design standards and allocation criteria, but
concluded that the project largely achieved the objective of demonstrating
that sites and services with core units represented a viable approach to the
provision of low income housing. This apptoach, with a minimum habitable core
house on each site, was accepted by government and became an integral part of
the PERUMNAS program. In the Fourth Urban Development Project (Loan 1972-IND,
March 1981), the Bank renewed its assistance to the housing sector with a
component which financed some 11,000 core units in 8 cities as well as sub-
stantiai technical assistance for PERUMNAS and BTU. This project is under
implementation and quantitative physical targets and institutional goals have
now been nearly attained. A key lesson of this project has been the impor-
tance of adequate policies (e.g., regarding project selection, pricing,
allocation and sales) to complement the increased construccion capacity of
PERUMNAS. In addition, the establishment of close links between PERUMNAS and
BTN, and more generally the institutional development of BTN, have been shown



- 6 -
to be key elements of successful sector performance. These lessons have been
incorporated in the design of the proposed project.
1.15      The Bank's approach to the housing sector has evolved from the
financing of pre-identified site-specific operations, as in the First and
Fourth Urban Development Projects, to taking a more global perspective on the
sector and its relationship to the Indonesian economy. Specifically, in
processing future lending operations, the Bank expects to focus most of its
attention on issues such as overall program composition, lending terms and
conditions, resource mobilization, regulatory constraints and itistitutional
development, and their links to macro-economic and financial sector concerns.
This lending strategy would address not only the government's quantitative
goals in the sector, but also key policy and institutional aims, such as the
consolidation of a housing finance system with mortgage lending rates that
permit the mobilization of nongovernment resources, as well as further
strengthening of the key sector institutions. The proposed housing sector
loan would be the first project financed by the Bank in Indonesia focussing
exclusively on the housing sector, and the first housing operation through a
financial intermediary in order to maximize the impact of Bank intervention.
The project has emerged from a two-year dialogue on sector issues and
significant policy changes have already taken place during the process of
project preparation (para. 1.10-1.13). The rationale for the Bank's
involvement would be to continue to act as a catalyst for sector policy and
institutional changes,
II.  THE BANK TABUNCAN NEGARA (BTN)
A. Legal Statust Objectives and Functions
2.01      The beneficiary of the proposed loan, Bank Tabungan Negara (BTN),
was created by Presidential Decree under the State Savings Bank Act
(Act No. 20) of 1968. Its original objective of stimulating savings was
a-nded in 1974, when the Ministry of Finance assigned BTN the responsibility
for mortgage financing of housing units built by PERUMNAS. This new objective
was expanded further in 1978 when BTN was authorized to provide mortgage
financing for housing units built by private developers. Under the
supervision of Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance, BTN has now become
the country's only major housing bank, with its key function being the
provision of mortgage financing to a range of income groups for both publicly
and privately developed housing units.
B. Organization, Management and Staffing
2.02      BTN is managed by a Board of Directors comprising a President
Director and two other Managing Directors all of whom are appointed by the
'4overnment for a five year term. The current Board was appointed in
March 1985 and includes a member of the previous Board as President Director
as well as the former head of BTN's finance and accounting department and a
third Managing Director who is new to BTN. The Board members act as Chief
Executive Officers making all major policy decisions and supervising their
implementation through various "biros" or departments in BTN's head office in
Jakarta as well as BTN's eleven branches located around the country. The



-7-
three Board members divide responsibility for various departments, with the
current President Director responsible for Personnel, Branch Operations and
Internal Audit, another Director responsible for Loans, Funding and Planning
and the third Director supervising Financial and Economic Affairs, Adminis-
tration, Training and Automation. Branch managers report directly to the
Board of Directors, though they also have functional working relations with
the heads of the various head office departments, particularly the Loan
department which is responsible for appraisal and supervision of projects and
individual loans (Annex 5, Chart 1).
2.03      Currently BTN-has 1,733 staff members, about 20% of whom are
employed in its head office and the remainder in the eleven branch offices.
Only about 100 staff members are university graduates and over 1,000 are high
school graduates. About 75% of university graduates are employed in BTN's
head iffice with the branches having a maximum of four and in some cases no
university graduates at all. Thus BTN's staff, especially at the branch
level, has a relatively low level of educational attainment. BTN's new Board
recognizes that more intensive efforts need to be made to attract qualified
staff at the middle management level and to train the existing staff in order
to implement more effective systems for handling BTN's present and projected
volume of operations. BTN recently recruited and will soon be strengthened by
90 new graduates with accounting and other needed skills.
2.04      BTN has a newly completed residential training campus in Jakarta
which offers training programs for new and existing staff and is currently
providing extensive training for all internal audit personnel (a high priority
for the Board). Since personnel quality is essential for the success of BTN
and the proposed loan, confirmation was obtained at negotiations that BTN
will, as part of an Institutional Action Program (Annex 5), induct the newly-
recruited university graduates and finalize agreements with LPPI (Institution
for Banking Development in Indonesia) to provide trainers and assistance to
BTN's new Training Department. BTN has also designated staff in each branch
who will act as counterparts to consultantd assisting 8TN in the implementa-
tion of new manual and automated systems. Consultant assistance is also
provided under the loan to develop a comprehensive manpower development plan
which will identify in detail BTN's recruitment and training needs as well as
remuneration packages required to attract and retain qualified staff (Annex 7).
C. Policies and Procedures
2.05      A Policy Statement spelling out key guidelines and safeguards
related to BTN lending and financial operations was agreed upon at negotia-
tions. The Policy Statement (Annex 4), which will be formally adopted by BTN
as a condition of loan effectiveness, covers, inter alia, the following:
(a) BTN adherence to objectives of GO1's housing program, including the compo-
sition of the program and financing terms; (b) BTU financial policies, to be
monitored through key financial ratios; (c) internal policies which ensure
attainment of objectives; and (d) reporting requirements. Although the
internal policies and procedures followed by BTN are well established, its
operational experience with mortgage lending is largely limited to the past
five years. With the rapid growth of lending volume, deficiencies in several
areas of BTN's performance have become increasingly apparent (para. 2.06



-8-
below). Measures to strengthen its operational performance and specific
changes in certain practices have been agreed with BTN's management and are
incorporated into an Institutional Action Program (Annex 5). A, urances were
obtained at negotiations that BTN will implement the program at rrding to the
schedule agreed with the Bank, and that it will periodically review with the
Bank progress made in the various areas.
2.06      BTN's mortgage Lending activities concentrate on the appraisal and
supervision of housing projects and individual loan applicants. BTN has in
the past treated PERUMNAS projects (para. 2.07-2.09 below) quite differently
from those of private developers. With regard to private developer projects,
BTN's branches perform an appraisal of each project, which provides the basis
for BTN's commitment to provide mortgage finance for the eventual purchasers.
With BTN's commitment letter, the developer obtains construction finance from
a commercial bank and builds the project, under BTN supervision. BTU
processes individual buyers for mortgage loans before the construction work on
the project is completed, and after loan disbursement, administers the
individual loan accounts. Although BTN appraisal and supervision of projects
is quite detailed despite the large number of projects that are processed,
branch staff is generally not adequately trained to perform these functions
analytically rather than mechanically. As a result, the substantial volume of
information generated during this process is not summarized selectively to
facilitate management review and there is evidence that BTN's past rules con-
cerning, inter alia, the size distribution of units within projects and
maximum unit prices and applicant incomes have not been followed. Generally
lax enforcement of BTN's rules and regulations by a largely untrained staff,
lack of uniform procedures among branches and inadequate safeguards and
information have therefore led to a situation where corporate goals and objec-
tives have not been satisfactorily achieved. Moreover, the lack of systematic
loan accounting and follow-up procedures has led to increasing payment arrears
on BTN's loan portfolio (para. 2.16). To improve BTN's operational perfor-
mance, its new Board has already taken steps to gain better control of branch
operations (e.g., efforts to improve arrears management) and provide expanded
staff training. As indicated above, BTN's management has also agreed to
implement an Institutional Action Program (Annex 5), with technical assistance
provided under the proposed loan for new systems implementation, manpower
planning and a management adviser (Annex 7).
D. Links with PERUMNAS
2.07      BTN's initial mortgage lending activities were closely linked to the
public housing program built by PERUMNAS, and untit 1982-83, PERUMNAS account-
ed for more than half of BTN's annual lending operations. However, due to the
bottlenecks described below and elaborated in Annex 3, loans for units built
by PERUNNAS have declined in the past three years, and the resulting sales
backlog and drop in sales revenue has slowed the PERtUMNAS construction pro-
gram. Until recently, BTN processed loans for the beneficiaries of PERUMNAS
projects without appraisals or commitment letters for these projects. How-
ever, after 1982, PERUMNAS stopped receiving budgetary funds directly and
therefore required BTN's commitment letter in order to obtain construction
finance for some projects. Since BTN has been receiving budgetary funds
earmarked for PERUMNAS mortgage loans, it has given commitment letters without



-g-
requiring a detailed appraisal of its projects. However, BTU raised questions
at later stages about PERUMNAS projects and beneficiaries which slowed down
loan origination, even though the units were in most cases already allocated.
In mid-1985, some 43,000 completed PERUNNAS units were awaiting mortgage loan
processing by BTN, although this backlog was substantially reduced in early
1986 by an emergency sales program (para. 2.08).
2.08      There are several reasons for the operational problems which arose
between BTN and PERUMNAS, including: (a) a lack of early contact between
PERUMNAS and BTN staff regarding project and beneficiary selection; (b) inade-
quate BTN staff for loan processing at the required time and place; (c) deLays
by PERUMNAS in establishing the sale price of the units since until recently
this was done by its parent ministry (Public Works); (d) the lack of an imme-
diate sale policy (i.e., the practice of allowing beneficiaries to move in
before loan processing); (e) unmarketable units built by PERUMNAS in small
towns due to external pressures; and (f) a variety of specific problems rang-
ing from irregular plots which differ from those indicated in the original
commitment letter to inadequate downpayments and disagreements over the
creditworthiness of some PERUMNAS beneficiaries. These problems have now been
identified in detail and regular meetings are now taking place between the
Boards and senior staff of the two institutions to resolve them. BTN has
specifically committed itself to, inter alia, create "flying brigades" to
supplement local branch staff if necessary, and initiate regular appraisals of
PERUMNAS projects as part of the commitment letter process in order to ensure
early interaction with PERUMNAS and facilitate subsequent loan processing.
PERUMNAS has developed and discussed with BTN a detailed inventory of all
projects and the specific bottlenecks affecting loan processing in each. In
addition to this ongoing emergency sales program to clear the backlog of
unsold units, PERUMNAS management has agreed to implement an Institutional
Action Program (Annex 6) which incorporates measures to prevent fu.ure
backlogs and will improve the agency's operational and financial performance
for the remainder of Repeliti IV and beyond. The content of this Action
Program and a detailed timetable for implementation and review was confirmed
at negotiations.
2.09      Starting in April 1986, BTN introduced a contractual savings scheme
(referrec to as TUM-KPR) designed to help prospective borrowers for PERUMNAS
and other projects accumulate towards their downpayment. The scheme has been
tested for four months in three locations and some rigidities in the original
design have been removed in the process.  In the short run, the scheme is not
expected to generate large resources, but it is expected to help resolve
several problems including: (a) the lack of early contact between PERUMNAS
beneficiaries and BTN which has delayed loan processing in the past; (b) the
difficulty of establishing creditworthiness, particularly for those with
nonfixed incomes and no record of regular payments, and (c) the biases in
beneficiary selection (i.e., civil servant preferences) which have been part
of the PERUMNAS and BTN programs. Since this approach represents a change
from the voluntary savings (Tabanas) on which BTN has been relying to date,
BTN has been advised to proceed cautiously with expanding a contractual
saving-for-housing scheme that carries large lending commitments. The scheme
will be refined further as part of BTN's Institutional Action Program, and
will be closely monitored.



- 10 -
R. Operational Performance
2.10      Past Performance.  STN's lending operations during Repelita III
(FY79/80-FY83184) expanded at a remarkably fast pace, as the demand for hous-
ing finance increased rapidly and funds were made available from GOI's budget
and Bank Indonesia. Details on BTN's past and projected operations are pro-
vided in Annex 1. BTU's mortgage loan portfolio increased sharply from only
5,260 units financed during Repelita II (PY1974175-FY1978/79), for A mortgage
value of Rp 11.6 billion to 191,938 units during Repelita III (PY79/80-
FY83/84) for a total mortgage value of Rp 593.1 billion. In geographical
terms, BTN's operations concentrated in its four largest branches, namely,
Jakarta, Surabaya, Jogjakarta and Bundung, which originated more than 70Z of
its loans and disbursed more than 801 of the total loan value. The annual
number of housing units financed by STU reached a peak of 64,000 units in
FY82183 but decreased to 50,000 units the following year.  Thi. decline in the
annual number of housing units financed by BTN was largely attributable to the
reduced financing of PERUMMAS units due to the bottlenecks mentioned above
(paras. 2.07-2.08). BTN's lending operations during this period were
increasingly directed to the larger and higher cost housing units built by
private developers rather than the low cost housing built by PERUMNAS. Of
BTN's total mortgage lending during Repelita III, only 41X of the lons and
181 of the funds were for the smaller core housing units (below 36 m ) which
were affordable for households at or below the median urban income. More than
851 of the PERUMMAS units financed by BTU during this period were core housing
units while only 5S of privately developed units were in this catlgory.  The
remaining units financed by BTU ranged in size from 36 m  to 70 m , and 36X of
the total funds disbursed were directed at units in the 60-70 m2 range, which
were affordable only by households above the 80th percentile.
2.11      Repelita IV Program.  BTN's lending program for Repelita IV
(FY1984/85-FY1988189) calls for the financing of some 325,000 housing units,
of which about half would be built by PERUMNAS and the remaining half by
private developers. In the first two years of the Repelita (FY1984/85 and
FY1985/86), BTU has financed over 130,000 units (of which 371 are PERUMNAS
units) for a total of Rp 728.7 billion. Of this total, only 391 of the loans
and about 201 of the funds have been directed to the smaller units (below
36 m ), affordable by households at oi below the median income, while the
largest units ranging between 60-70 m consumed about 401 of the funds. Table
1 below summarizes and contrasts the actual program for the first two years of
Repelita IV and the projected program for the remaining three years.



- 11 -
Table 1: BTN MORTGAGE FINANCING PROCRAM FOR REPELITA IV
Actual program (1984/85-1985/86)  Projected program (1986/87-1988/89)
Type of        No. of         Loan amount          No. of           Loan amount
unit/a          units    X   (Rp billion)    2    units        Z    (Rp billion)    Z
< 36 M2         52,248   39      144.70        20   136,402   70         562.09       55
37-49 M2        26,577   20      159.16        22    26,795   14         186.91       18
50-59 M2         19,478   15     135.01        18    23,539   12         200.85       20
60-70 H2         34,572   26     289.87        40     8,124    4           73.57       7
Total        132,875  100      728e74       100   194,860  100      1023.42       100
/a   Includes flats and dormitory units which have been allocated to the
appropriate size category.
2.12      Future Performance.  BTN's lending program for the remaining three
years of Repelita IV (FY1986/87-FY1988/89) comprises financing commitments for
nearly 195,000 housing units for a total of about Rp 1,023 billion in current
prices. Based on decisions taken at the highest level in government (para.
1.10-1.13), the future lending program has been significantly reoriented and
targetted towards smaller, lower cost units affordable to lower and middle
income groups. Specifically, more than two-thirds of the total n!mber of
units to be financed by 8TN would be the smaller units below 36 m , affordable
at or below the median income under the new lending terms and conditions.
Hence, about one-half of the mortgage funds to be disbursed by BTN would be
channelled to households in the bottom half of the income distribution. The
detailed program and affordability analysis is presented in Annex 1. An
understanding was reached at negotiations that BTN's lending program will be
reviewed periodically with the Bank and revisions or corrective measures
taken, if warranted, to ensure compliance with the agreed overall composition
of the program.
F. Financial Performance
2.13      Recent Performance.  BTN's summarized financial statements (Income
Statements, Balance Sheets, and Sources and Application of Funds) reflecting
its actual performance for the period FY1981/83-FY1984/85 and the correspon-
ding performance indicators are presented in Annex 2. Between FY1981/82-
FY1984/85, BTN's total assets more than tripled to Rp 991 billion in
FY1984/85. BTN's net mortgage loan portfolio was valued at Rp 817 billion by
the end of March 31, 1985, representing about 82% of its total assets. BTN's
lending operations have been funded primarily from GOT contributions in the
form of quasi-equity and Bank Indonesia liquidity credits with a concessional
interest rate of 3Z p.a., in addition to the funds mobilized through its own
resources. BTN mobilized the largest amount of the funds through liquidity
credits from Bank indonesia, which funded 68Z of the total housing loan
portfolio in FY1984/85, followed by GOI contributions (20%) and BTN's own
resources (12%).



- 12 -
2.14      BTN's income increased more than fivefold between F'81/82 and
FY84/85 to Rp 78 billion in FY1984/85. Of this total income, 34% derived from
interest income on housing loansp 13% from investments in sho.t-term instru-
ments and the balance 3% from various commissions, fees and administrative
charges. BTN's operations, which reached breakeven level in FY81/82, showed a
significant profit of Rp 5.2 billion in FY82/83 and this profit further
increased almost fourfold to Rp 19.8 billion in PY1984/85.  The return on
equity increased steadily over this period and reached 8.7% in FY84/85 as
compared to 0.2% in FY81/82 and 5.8% in FY82/83. This performance was
primarily a consequence of two factors: (a) interest charges and other fund
raising expenses, although increasing significantly in absolute terms,
declined steadily from more than 48X of total income in FY81/82 to 38Z in
FY84/85, and (b) payroll and related expenses declined even more rapidly from
42Z of total income in FY1981/82 to 17% in FY1984/85. As indicated in Annex
2, in FY1984/85 BTN earned an average interest income of 7.9% on average total
assets and its average cost of funds was 3.0% of total assets, yielding an
interest spread of 4.9% in FY1984/85 as compared to 3.0% in FY1981/82. This
substantial increase in its interest spread, due to a greater proportion of
low cost funds being used for the more profitable larger units, clearly
contributed to BTN's profitability over this period.
2.15      Regarding the quality of BTN's loan portfolio, arrears in principal
and interest on its portfolio amounted to Rp 11.7 billion as of March 31, 1985,
representing 1.4% of the entire outstanding portfolio. These arrears figures
probably overstate the problem since they include payment delays of one month
and do not take into account unrecorded aggregate payments received by BTN
from paymasters and other banks for which loan accounts have not been clearly
identified. Nevertheless, BTN's loan portfolio affected by arrears increased
considerably from 0.8% in March 1982 to 1.4% in March 1985. Significant risks
to BTN's cashflow and financial position would arise if these arrears on
installments receivable continued to grow and more importantly, if they
reflected uncollectable loans which needed to be written off. The reorienta-
tion of its portfolio to lower cost units targetted at lower income households
could well increase the risk of growing arrears. BTN recognizes this poten-
tial problem and has initiated a "crash" program to collect overdue install-
ments, as well as a more systematic effort to improve arrears management which
has been agreed with BTN as part of its Institutional Action Program (Annex 5).
2.16      Future Performance.  BTN's projected financial statements (Income
Statement, Balance Sheet and Statement of Sources and Application of Fun4s)
for FY85/86-89/90 are presented in Annex 2. New housing loans valued at
Rp 470 billion would be disbursed by BTN in the current year (FY85/86) and a
further Rp 1,023 billion during the program period (FY86/87-FY89/90). Accord-
ingly, BTN's net housing loan portfolio of Rp 817 billion in FY84/85 is
projected to increase to Rp 2,033 billion by the end of FY89190, representing
more than 85% of the total assets throughout the program period.
2.17      BTN's gross income is expected to increase from Rp 78 billion in
FY84/85 to Rp 224 billion in FY89/90. Interest income from housing loans will
increase substantially over the program period, reflecting the recent change
in interest rates on BTN's new housing loans. Interest income from housing
loans will increase to Rp 189 billion, constituting 85% of gross income in



- 13 -
FY89/90, as compared to Rp 50 billion or 64% of gross income in FY84t85.
However, since BTN will be relying less on low cost government resourcesv its
cost of funds is also expected to increase. BTN's financial projections
indicate that BTN's spread and profitability will remain at a satisfactory
level over the program period despite its increased cost of funds. The net
.nterest apread would be at least 3S over the next few years and net profits
after tax would increase in absolute terms from Rp 13 billion in FY1984/85 to
Rp 21 billion in FY89/90.
2.18      The projections of BTN's financial performance and indicators show
that BTN's net working capital would increase steadily as the current ratio
reaches 2.7 by the end of 1988/89. Over the program period, BTN would main-
tain its sound financial position, as indicated by the current, debt service
aud debt/equity service ratios. The current and debt service ratios would be
maintined well above the minimum level of at least 1.5 and 1.2 respectively,
while the debt equity ratio would remain well below the maximum of 6.0. The
projections assume that BTN will take all necessary actions to improve the
collection of principal and interest receivables and to avoid arrears on mort-
gage loans to a maximum extent during the project period. Provisions for bad
debt accounts have been assumed to be 1.2X on the outstanding loan portfolio.
2.19      BTN's orojected resource requirements on a disbursement basis amount
to a total of Rp 1,023.4 billion for the project period FY86/87-FY89/90. The
resources from GOI, BI and IBRD would cover about 682 of the financing
requirements, with BTN covering the remaining Rp 329 billion. Details are
provided in Annex 2. BTN will rely mainly on savings operations and internal
cash generation through its lending operations to meet its share of the pro-
jected resource requirements. The financial projections indicate that BTN
should be in a good position to meet these requirements. Although these pro-
jections show a comfortable level of cash reserves, in view of GOI's budgetary
limitations STN may face some uncertainty regarding the expected GOI contri-
butions. The detailed financing plan for the period FY86/87 to FY89/90 was
reviewed and confirmed during negotiations. In the future, BTN inter.ds to
mobilize additional non-government resources through several new instruments,
including time deposits aimed at institutional investors and a saving-for-
housing scheme for the general public. These new instruments are now being
designed and tested by BTN and are expected to make a significant contribution
to financing BTN's lending in the medium-term.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
3.01      The proposed project was identified in the context of a sector
review in November 1983. This review identified the key areas of policy
reform needed to enable GOI to achieve its objectives and targets. The recom-
mendations of this review were a subject of extensive discussion between the
Bank and the government over a period of nearly two yeatA. In September 1985,
the government announced significant changes in sector policies
(para. 1.11-1.14). The project was appraised in October 1985 and a post-
appraisal mission visited Jakarta in February/March 1986. BTN, the key



- 14 -
beneficiary gency, PERUNNAS, the key housing developer, the Office of the
State Minister for Housing and Bank Indonesia were actively involved in the
policy discussions and preparation leading up to the proposed loan.
B. Project Objectives. Description and Costs
3.02      The objectives of the proposed project, in line with GOI goals for
Repelita IV, would be to:  (a) expand access to housing finance for low and
middle income households; (b) reduce overall subsidies and target the remain-
ing subsidies to the lowest income groups; (c) reduce the reliance of the
housing finance system on government funds and introduce new instruments for
resource mobilization; (4) stimulate the production of more low-cost housing
by both public and private developers; (e) generate employment at low foreign
exchange costs; and (f) strengthen the key institutions in the housing sector,
namely the Bank Tabungan Negara (BTN), and PERUMNAS and assist the Office of
the State Minister for Housing in developing and monitoring sector policies
and programs.
3.03      The proposed loan would have the following components:  (a) a credit
line to BTN which would be used to finance a share of total mortgage lending
commitments during the last three years of Repelita IV (para. 2.12); and (b)
technical assistance and computer and other equipment for BTN and PERUMNAS to
strengthen their operational performance and management, and for the Office of
the State Minister for Housing to develop its capacity for housing policy
formulation and monitoring. The technical assistance for BTN and PERUMNAS
would include the following: assistance in the implementation of new systems,
manpower planning studies and advisory services for management, project
monitoring and computerization. The technical assistance for the Office of
the State Minister for Housing includes the following: a study of housing
market behavior in urban Indonesia focussing on demand patterns and supply
constraints, a post-construction study of low-cost housing projects and
advisory services for housing policy analysis and a study of land titling
bottlenecks for BTM-financed housing. Objectives and cost estimates for the
technical assistance component are provid.!d in Annex 7. Detailed terms of
reference have been prepared and agreed upon for each of these technical
assistance i.ems. The terms of reference and consultant short list for
technical assistance to BTN would be cleared by all agencies concerned so as
to enable consultants to be appointed before loan effectiveness.
3.04      The total cost of the housing program for which financing commit-
ments would be provided during the period 1986-1987 to 1988-89 (described in
Annex 1 and summarized in Table 2 below) is estimated at Rp 1,322.8 billion
(US$1,202.6 million), of which 20X are estimated to be direct and indirect
foreign exchange costs. Taxes and duties are estimated at about Rp 66 billion
(US$60 million). Base cost estimates for the housing program (expressed in
December 1985 prices) are based on unit sales prices for housing units of the
type to be financed under the project, which are in turn based on the actual
experience of recent PERUMNAS projects and the annually revised maximum prices
per m set by the Directorate General of Human Settlements (Cipta Karya) of
the Ministry of Public Works and followed by BTN. Costs for the technical
assistance component (US$6.1 million) include about 600 man-months of consul-
tant services, of which about 145 are foreign consultant services, as well as



- 15 -
equipment and training (US$0.8 million). Estimated price increases over the
project period amount to about 13% of base costs. Price increases for local
costs are estimated at 61 p.a. and for foreign costs at 7.21 for 1986, 6.81
for 1988 and 1989 and 7.01 for 1989.
Table 2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Billion Rupiah              Million US$
Local   Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
Housing Program                     1,058.2   264.6 1,322.8    962.1   240.5 1,202.6
Technical Assistance and Equipment      3.2      3.5     6.7      2.9      3.2     6.1
Project Cost                   1,061.4   268.1 1t329.5    965.0   243.7 1,208.7
C. Financing Plan and On-Lending Terms
3.05      The detailed financing plan for the mortgage lending program is
shown in Annex 2, Table 7. Table 3 below summarizes the financing plan for
the combined housing and technical assistance programs. The proposed Bank
loan of US$275 million would finance the housing program's full foreign
exchange cost of approximately US$240.5 million and US$28.4 million (31) of
local costs, as well as the full cost (US$6.1 million) of technical
assistance. In addition to the Bank's 23% share, the other sources of funds
which would finance the balance of the project include beneficiary
downipayments (23%), liquidity credits from Bank Indonesia (13Z), budgetary
funds from the Ministry of Finance (16X) and resources mobilized by BTU itself
(251). The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Covernment of Indonesia,
which would on-lend to BTN the portion earmarked for mortgage loans (US$268.9
million) under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The signing of this agreement
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The on-lending rate for BTN would
be fixed at 11.5Z with a 20 year term including five years of grace. The
government will bear the foreign exchange and interest rate fluctuation risks
of the Bank loan, which are expected to be covered by the spread between the
Bank's current rate and the proposed on-lending rate to BTU. The remainder of
the Bank loan (US$6.1 million), which will finance consultant assistance and
equipment, will be passed on to the implementing agencies as soft loans.
Formal confirmation from Bank Indonesia on its commitment to provide US$162
million in liquidity credits to BTN for the mortgage lending program and the
signing of a subsidiary loan agreement with PERUMNAS would also be conditions
of effectiveness. Bank Indonesia liquidity credits would have a rate of 31
with a 20 year term. These onlending terms and conditions were confirmed at
negotiations.



- 16 -
Table 3s PROJECT FINANCING PLAN SUMMARY
(US$ million)
Local        Foreign         Total        X of Total
Beneficiary Downpayments  272.7                         272.7              23
Government budget          200.0                        200.0              16
Bank Indonesia             162.0                        162.0              13
World Bank                  31.3         243.7          275.0              23
BTN                        299.0                        299.0              25
Total                965.0          243.7        1,208.7             100
3.06      BTN would use the proceeds of the Bank loan to finance loans to
eligible borrowers at its new lending terms and conditior4. BTN's lending
terms are of three types, differentiated according to mortgage loan size:
*    Type A:   9% interest over 20 years with a 10% downpayment,
applicable to mortgage loans of Rp 3.5 million or less (1985
prices);
e    Type B:   12X interest over 20 years with a 20% downpayment,
applicable to mortgage loans of between Rp 3.5 and Rp 5.0
million; and
o    Type C:   15% interest over 20 years with a 25% downpayment,
applicable to mortgage loans of between Rp 5.0 and Rp 7.7
million.
The mortgage size ranges to which the above terms would be applied correspond
to various house types, s shown in Annex 1. Type A terms would apply io
housing units of 15-21 m , Type B terms would apply to units of 27-36 m ; and
Type C terms would apply to the remAining units in the progIam, although
downpayment requirements would differ for the largest (70 m ) units and the
flats included in the program. The mortgage loan sizes to which the different
terms would apply would be updated periodically, in line with revised maxiumum
unit prices set by the Directorate General of Human Settlements (D.J. Cipta
Karya) in the Ministry of Public Works. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the Bank would review these lending terms and conditions
periodically or before any proposed revisions to ensure consistency with GOI
objectives as well as BTN's financial viability.



- 17 -
D. Eligibility, Review and Approval Procedures
3.07      Eligibility for BTU financing would be determined through the
appraisal of projects and individual loan applicants. BTN's eligibility cri-
teria would be revised in accordance with COI's new policies, including, inter
alia, the following specific revisions: (a) the required size distribution of
units within projects would be modified to at least a 70/30 ratio between
small (<36 M2) and large houses; and (b) monthly income of the borrowers
receiving mortgage loans would not exceed Rp 300,000 (roughly equivalent to
the 80th percentile) and all applicants meeting this income criterion would be
eligible, regardless of occupation. The revised criteria have been incorpor-
ated into BTN's policy statement (Annex 4). All developer projects and
individual mortgage applicants who meet BTN's revised eligibility criteria
would be eligible for Bank financing.
3.08      Most of the approximately 300 privately-developed sub-projects
appraised and financed by BTN in the past two years comprised between 50 and
300 units, with total financing ranging from about Rp 250 million (US$227,000)
to Rp 2.1 billion (US$1.9 million). About half of PERUMNAS' 30 new projects
per year comprise more than 300 units, but the individuals loans are typically
lower, so total financing costs are in the same range. Initially all sub-
projects with a total financing cost exceeding Rp 1.3 billion (US$1.2 million)
or exceeding 250 housing units (whichever is less) will be reviewed and
approved by the Bank prior to approval by BTN. It is estimated that these
sub-projects would constitute about 20S of the total number of projects
financed by BTN and 60Z of total financing value. BTN would, before approving
a commitment to the developer. submit a completed Subproject Appraisal Summary
to the Bank (in an appraisal format agreed at negotiations) for each sub-
project above this free limit. For subprojects below this limit, BTN would
also complete and retain a Subproject Appraisal Summary and these subprojects
would be subject to a posteriori review by the Bank on a sample basis. It is
proposed that if the first twenty projects reviewed are acceptable, the Bank
could consider increasing the subproject free limit during the loan period.
The Bank would also review the proposed annual programs for PERUMNAS and a
periodic sample of individual subloans for different types of units.
E.   Procurement and Disbursement
3.09      Procurement:  About 99Z of the proposed loan would finance BTN
mortgage disbursements, and would thereby indirectly finance civil works and
goods contracts for infrastructure and housing construction. For all con-
tracts indirectly financed by the loan, procurement procedures specific to
each type of developer, public and private, would apply. PERUMNAS, which is
expected to account for about half of the loan, will award most civil works
contracts following local competitive bidding procedures which are satisfac-
tory to the Bank and lead to efficient house construction. Individual
contracts placed by PERUMNAS typically do not exceed about $1 million, due to
its practice of subdividing construction on individual sites into several
contracts tailored to suit locaL contracting capacity. Where possible,
PERUMNAS will package work in general contracts suited to larger contractors,
thus reducing project management and work scheduling requirements for
PERUMNAS. Contracts exceeding the equivalent of US$5 million will be tendered



- 18 -
by International Competitive Bidding (ICB), where prequalification of
interested bidders shows that foreign bidders can be expected to compete.
Private developers which are expected to account for the other half of the
loan, typically use a mixture of outside contracting and in-house workforces
to execute construction. Following procurement practices laid down by BTh,
they are required to engage a licensed architectural/engineering firm to
prepare designs and certify construction compliance with specifications, and
both BTN and the relevant local authority building inspectorate scrutinize
design and construction practices. About US$6.1 million of the loan would be
used to finance technical assistance and computer equipment and training for
institutional development. Equipment would be procured either by local
prudent shopping or directly from manufacturers to ensure compatibility with
existing equipment on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Consultant services would be procured following Bank guidelines.
3.10      Disbursement:  The proposed Bank loan of US$250 million would be
committed over a period of three years (mid-1986 to mid-1989), and is expected
to be fully disbursed in four and a half years with the closing date set at
December 31, 1991. The disbursement projections are based on actual and ex-
pected performance in the sector. The estimated disbursement schedule is
presented in Annex 6. The pace of actual disbursements will be a function of
the ability of PERUMNAS and private developers to generate projects and BTN's
capacity to process the associated loan volume. In view of the large number
of small sub-loans, disbursements will be made by the Bank periodically on a
reimbursement basis, covering about 29% of BTN's total eligible mortgage
disbursements over the program period, against Statements of Expenditure (SOE)
for an aggregate value of not less than US$500,000 submitted by BTN. The
supporting documents will be retained by BTN and be available for inspection
by the Bank. Disbursement percentages would be link$d to the size of units
financed by BTN, i.e., 50  for the smallest (15-21 mn, Type A loans), 45% for
the medium-sized (27-36 m , Type B loans) and 40% for the larger (45-54 m2,
Type C loans). Disbursements for mortgages of type C shall not exceed
US$60 million (22X of total loan pr oceeds on-lent to BTU), and the Bank will
not disburse against loans for 70 m units, flats or dormitories. Retroactive
financing of up to US$15 million, to cover BTN disbursements between April 1,
1986 and the date of loan signing, is recommended. The disbursement rate for
consultant services would be 100% and for equipment either 100%, 95% or 65%,
depending on the procurement procedure.
F.   Accounts and Audits
3.11      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that 8TN would maintain
procedures and records adequate to monitor the progress of its operations and
financial condition. BTU's accounting systems and internal control procedures
are presently deficient and need to be improved. BTN's 1983 and 1984
financial statements were given a qualified audit report by the State Audit
agency (BPKP), due mainly to inconsistencies in financial accounts between
headquarters and branches, and there have been substantial delays in the
submission of audited financial statements. However, the 1984 audit report
showed significant improvement, reflecting steps taken to review and clarify
internal accounts by 8TN and a special audit team appointed by BPKP. In
addition, 8TN is providing training for internal audit staff and has appointed



- 19 -
a public accounting firm to assist in strengthening internal audit and control
functions. Moreover, under the proposed loan, technical assistance would be
provided to BTU to strengthen, inter alia, its accounting practices, particu-
larly in the area of loan accounting. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that BIN will employ independent external auditors satisfactory to the
Sank, apart from the assistance being contracted for its internal auditing
unit, and that the auditors' reports, together with BTN's audited financial
statements, would be submitted to the Bank (in English) not later than nine
months after the close of each financial year. In addition, BTN's auditors
will provide an opinion on separate accounts related to the Bank loan and
Statements of Expenditure (SOE).
3.12      PERUMNAS has also received qualified audit reports in recent years.
For PERUMNAS, the principal qualification has been insufficient documentation
of financial transactions incurred in the period 1975/76-1982/83. Steps have
been taken to review and determine the amount of these accounts by a special
audit team appointed by BPKP and the management of PERUMNAS. Other steps to
be taken have been included in the Institutional Action Program for PERUMNAS
and involve implementation of new accounting systems with ongoing consultant
assistance.
G.   Monitoring and Supervision
3.13      The Bank would monitor the progress of the proposed program with the
help of quarterly reports, financial statements and supporting documents,
which would be submitted to the Bank by BTN and the Office of the State
Minister for Housing within two months after the end of each quarter. The
format of this report and the related reporting procedures were agreed at
negotiations. In addition, BTN will prepare and submit annual operating plans
covering all of its activities. These monitoring procedures would be supple-
mented by supervision missions. Supervision effort would initially concen-
trate on monitoring BTE's adherence to new policies and procedures in its
lending operations and on the institutional action programs of BTU and
PERUMNAS. In addition to BTU's reporting requirements to the Bank, the State
Minister for Housing will chair a Coordinating Committee which will monitor
the program. The Office of the State Miniscer for Housing, in collaboration
with BTN and PERUMNAS, would prepare the Project Completion Report.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.01      Benefits  The proposed project would be the first Bank project to
focus exclusively on Indonesia's urban houping sector and the first to channel
assistance to the sector through a financial intermediary. The focus of the
16oject on housing policies and institutions and the inclusion of privately-
developed housing, would maximize the impact of Bank assistance. The project
would help GOI to (a) reduce and target subsidies more closely; (b) increase
savings and resource mobilization; (c) augment the delivery of housing to
lower and middle-income households; and (d) strengthen key institutions in the
sector.



- 20 -
4.02      In quantitative terms, the project would provide mortgage finance
for nearly 195,000 housing units built by the public and private sector, thus
easing one of the key constraints to a larger housing supply. Moreover, the
project would reorient the housing program by modifying the size distribution
of the units financed towards the smaller units affordable by lower and middle
income households, in sharp contrast to the recent pattern of mortgage finance
(paras. 2.10-2.12). Specifically, more than two-thirds of the units and half
of the mortgage funds would be directed to beneficiaries with incomes at or
below the median. The social or poverty impact of the project will therefore
be very significant. It is estimated that at least one-third of the more than
one million people benefitting from the project would be below the urban
relative poverty threshold for Indonesia (estimated at US$245 per capita in
1983 prices). Moreover, it is estimated that housing investment of the
magnitude proposed under this project will generate roughly 340,000 person
years of direct employment and approximately 135,000 person years of ineirect
employment in the building materials industry.
4.03      The economic rate of return for the project was calculated using the
foLlowing assumptions regarding project benefits and costs. Imputed rents
were estimated using data on market rents for dwellings of various sizes in
three urban locations in Indonesia. The data was provided by the Office of
the State Minister for Housing. The benefit calculations assume that benefi-
ciaries value the units at the (estimated) market rents. Using this measure
of benefits, as well as the total costs of the housing program (net of taxes)
and annual maintenance costs, the economic rate of return was estimated at
15X. More extensive and reliable rental data would probably yield a much
higher economic rate of return due to the limited supply and strong demand for
well-located low-cost housing units. In addition, the economic justification
of the project would be enhanced by considering the incremental benefits of
subsequent housing improvements made by beneficiaries, the benefits brought by
the project to low income people who rent space from the beneficiaries and the
possible lowering of the rate of increase of housing rents cue to increased
supply.
4.04      Risks  Although this project would have a much larger impact than
previous interventions in the housing sector, it involves more risks than the
previous sites and services components. The major risk is that the effective-
ness of BTN to appraise projects, process loan applications and handle its
loan accounts in accordance with G3I's new policies and sound financial
practices remains uncertain and the proposed institution-building efforts
could be prolonged. This risk is manageable through the Policy Statement,
Institutional Action Program, Technical Assistance component and close project
supervision.
4.05      A second risk is that private developers will not react well to
GOI's and BTN's new policies regarding the composition of the mortgage lending
program and will either reduce their output (due to the smaller profitability
of building lower cost units) or pressure BTN to continue to finance the
larger units that have increasingly dominated BTN's lending program in recent
years. BTN's new Board recognizes this risk but does not believe it will
seriously threaten the proposed lending program. Nevertheless, the projec-
tions of BTN's new loan disbursements and financial statements assume a slow
down in lending for privately developed units.



- 21 -
4.06      Another risk is that loans for PERUMNAS units will fall short of the
ambitious targets which are projected, either because of loan processing
problem. or limited delivery capacity. This risk has been reduced by the
renewed commitment on the part of both PERUMNAS and BTN to resolving specific
bottlenecks and the fact that if working capital is thereby assured, PERUMNAS
has the construction capacity to significantly expand its output (Annex 3).
4.07      A final risk, associated with the limited supply of housing and the
pressure of demand, is that higher income groups may appropriate the shelter
targetted for lower income groups, either directly by understating their
income or indirectly by purchasing or renting the unit. These transfers or
shifts among income groups are, in fact, very difficult to control, but BTN
and PERUMNAS will attempt to reduce this risk by scrutinizing potential
beneficiaries more carefully, applying eligibility criteria more strictly and
monitoring loan recipients more closely. In the medium term, the increased
supply of housing may reduce these pressures in some locations.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      The following were agreed upon or confirmed at negotiations:
(a) BTN's Policy Statement (para. 2.05 and Annex 4);
(b) the content and timetable for implementation of the Institutional
Action Programs for BTN and PERUMNAS and a periodic review of
implementat.on progress (para. 2.05 and 2.08 and Annexes 5 and 6).
(c) BTN's program for the remaining 3 years of Repelita IV and a
periodic review of BTN's actual and projected lending (para. 2.12);
(d) the financing plan for BTN's mortgage lending program (para. 3.05);
(e) on-lending terms for Bank funds (para 3.05-3.06);
(f) appraisal formats for subprojects (para. 3.08);
(g) formats for quarterly reports on operational and financial results
(para 3.12); and
(h) the appoirtment of independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank to
audit BTN's annual accounts and financial statements (para 3.11).
5.02      The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a) formal adoption of the Policy Statement by BTN's Board of Directors
(para. 2.05);
(b) appointment of consultants for new-systems implementation by BTN
(para. 3.03).



- 22 -
(c) the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and STU
(para. 3.05);
(d) the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and PERUMNAS
(para. 3.05); and
(e) formal confirmation from Bank Indonesia on its commitment to provide
US$162 million in liquidity credits to BTN for the mortgage lending
program (para. 3.05).
5.03      Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$275 million at the standard terms for
Indonesia. The borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



- 23 -
AN=  1
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
Detailed Pro&ram Composition and AffordabilitZ Analysis
BTN's past and projected lending operations and an affordability
analysis for the units to be financed under the project are shown in the
Tables in this Annex. Table I shows the composition of BTI's mortgage finance
program by type of unit and developer for Repelita II and III. Table 2 shows
the composition of BTN's program for all of Repelita IV, while Table 3 pro-
vides the actual composition during the first year of Repelita IV (1984-85)
and a preliminary estimate of the composition for the second year (1985-86).
Table 4 compares the program composition during the first two years at the
Repelita with the projected program for the remaining three years (1986-87 to
1988-89). Table 5 shows the detailed composition of the pr3posed program for
the remaining three years of Repelita IV. The typical plot size associated
with each type of unit is provided after the size of the unit itself (e.g.
15/60). Finally, Table 6 illustrates the affordability of the different types
of units to be finaced under the project. The affordability analysis is based
on the assumption that households in various income groups can afford to spend
between 20-33S of their monthly income on housing. The income percentiles
shown in the analysis are based on rough income distribution estimates updated
to 1985 from the 1978 SUSENAS survev results for urban Indonesia. The unit
price for each type is an average of the PERUMNAS and privately developed unit
prices for that type. PERUMMAS prices are established through a pricing
formula which aims at full recovery of all capital costs and financial
charges, while maximum unit prices for privately developed units are set by
Cipta Karya in the Ministry of Public Works, using unit cost estimates for
construction 4nd iand (the maximum ratio of land to construction cost is 1.3
for units of !36M and I.0 for larger units).



-24 -
Table I
CW OSITI  OF      'S NIIImIm    FIWCIiDB iRM FOR EfLITA 11 I Ill
kp.lita 11 (FTI974175-FY1978/19)                               apelita III 1FT19M79N-RIMU     )
Ty" Of Unit      Pruna        I   Privat        I   Toteal        t             Puas         I   Private       I             Totd        I
ula6 Sq./lea          185       212    870         0     1015       201            73          82    S3           6a            7960       41t
37-4?  . /a           549       622   1667         8    2216        422             816*       1*1  3147         301           39609       212
50-59 sq.le            34        41    97         23    1031        202             1477        22  -RIM        m2             318         17n
607Q sq./I             11        3      847       192    96         1n              23          3    38316       36t            40919      212
Total Units        879      1002   4381      1        526       1               M0         10   10603B       1002           1919        100?
Disbursemnts
(I.billionl
himv 3 Sq.ls         0.20       141    1.70       17    1.90        la2            87.30       90    19.60        4            106.9       1in
37-49 Sq.lm          0.80       57     3.         3M     4.70       412             2.90        32  121.70       25t           124.60      212
-  Iq.Iu   -         0.10        n    2.40        2      2.50       272             2.30        22  143.10       292           145.40      252
60-70 Sq./a          0.30       212    2.20       222    2.50       222             4.60        52  211.60       432           216.20      362
Total Amnt         1.40     1002   10.20      1002   11.60      10ot            97.14      1002 496.00       100            593.10      1001
A;. but per Unit
Rp.sillionI          1.59              2.33              2.21                       1.13             4.8                        3.0



Table 2
- 25 -
COPOSITION OF BTN'sB NORTOAGE FINANCIN  PRMORAN FOR REPELITA IV
Repelita IV RFY1784/85-F4YMOB/89)
Type of Unit       Perumnas      2    Private       l    Total         I
Bplau 36 Sq.Ia       120611        79?   68039        39?  188650        582
37-49 Sq./a           17819        12?   35564        201   53392        16Z
50-5? Sq.tI          t1o10          7?   31946        189   43017        13?
60-70 Sq./a            3283         2?   39413        23?   42696        13I
Total Units       152783       100?  174962       100?  32774q5      100
Disbursements
IRp.billion)
Belau 36 Sq./a       349.58        59?  357.21        31?  706.79        402
37-49 Sq./a          118.09        20?  227.98        20?  346.07        20?
50-59 Sq./I           96.07        161  239.80        21?  335.87        19?
60-70 Sq./a           32.62         5?  331.42        29?  364.04        212
Total Aeount      596.36       100? 1156.40       100? 1752.76       100t
Av. Amount per Unit
(Rp.Gillionl           3.90               6.61               5.35



-26 -
Table 3
COWUITIU OF 3U'S mR            FI MES PRUIRU        F 1ST 11 VUM  OF ELIT4 IV (lI05 & rf 1               )
First Yw  (1196416) -ktul                                      Becud Ta  (7193) - Peliuiry
Type ofi bit       ermui       I    Private      I    Totl                       Pruu         I    Privat       I             Total         2
blo.36Sq.Ia           9237       13m    242         7    115         2               m5           2    2            42            4n          47
37-49 Sq.               70        12  103          3     1103        241              2          l    1I1         32              174         12
505  Sq.f               3          2    772        211     74        In               4          It l12           2               11714       14U
0-70  q./*              71        12  1573         42   159          341              212       1U  111           m               137"        222
Total l.its        "10       10   365          100   46235       12              392        1002   47112     t100               60        t0
Oisbsmots
RpA.illii)
blov 36 Sq./,        20.51       97n    9.53        41   30.04       121           104.68        3     9.99        3            114.66        24
7-49 Iq.I.            0.13        1t   61.01       261  61.14        242             0.63        1t   97.3        m              98.02        211
5"     q.a .          0.14        12  47.71        2    47.05        182             3.99        42    3.17       23              7.16        192
60-70 sq.to           0.41        22  119.75       50   120.16       46*             3.19        3   166.52       4n            169.71       362
Total A_at        21.19      1002 238.0        100  259.19       1              112.49      1002 35.06        100            469.55       1002
Av. bArwt pmr (bit
(Rp.illicul          2.25               6.46              5.61                       2.85              7.56                       5.42



- 27 -
Anise I
Table 4
E*IIR6       B f  NII'S NRTIASE FINlICllS PROM6UI FOR REPELITA IV
Total Progru for First Tao Years of Repelits IV                 Projected Progra For R       uinnlg Three Years of teplita IV
IFYIIUG/85-fY1985IR4)                                            1FY986187-FM191M1)
Type of Unit      Perunas       I    Private       I    Total         t             Pruas         I    Private       I             Total         I
bels 36 Sq.l.         4771        987    4477         St   52248        392             720         7S   632           702            130402       701
37-49 Sq. /a            363        It   26214        31?   26577        201             17445       1n     9o          1Ot             2619f       142
50   Sq.!.              521        It   1897         2     19478        152             10550       101   1299         142             239         12S
60-70 Sq.le             283        1    34289        41?   34572        26?              3000        31    5124        6t               8124        42
Total Units       48938       1001   83937       1002  132875       100             103835      1002   91025       1OOl            194860      1OOl
fisbursents
tRIp.tillion)
8eloo 36 Sq.1.       125.19       942   19.51         31  144.70        202            224.39       482  337.70        602           562.09        SSl
37-49 Sq..             0.76        t2  158.40        271  159.t6        22U            t17.33       252 6.9            12,?           M6.A1        1o
50-59 Sq.Ia            4.13        32  130.8         22?  135.01        192             91.94       202  106.92        191           200.86        201
60-70 Sq./o            3.60        3t 296.27         482  289.97        40Z            29.02         62   44.55         el             73.57        n
Total Asount     133.6        1002  595.06       1002  729.74       1002           462.68       1002  560.74       1002          1023.42       1002
Av. Amnt per Unit
(Rp.eillion)          2.73               7.09               5.48                        4.46               6.16                        5.25



KTAILED COIWOSITIIU Of sTN ISm     FINIIII   MBR1  FOR RF19861874Y1989190
Type of
(bit
kner of Units                                 ease Cost                            Contin-            Total                                  uWoYst                    total
-gecies            Cost                               ----                         La
Petanas Prsivte    Total           S          Pruass Private    total            I                                              I            Rate    Ost             I                          I
Mp.Bilhiin)                          IRp.Billionl      IRp.illienl                    lSI         illionl              (R1.eilltoo
0.156                196t35        -    19635     1o.1t             43.00        -    43.00       3.?t             5.56              48.56      3.n                 1OZ    4.86      t.6t             43.70      4.31                 co
D.1m/72              20285         -    202      10.43             56.19        -    56.19       4.n              7.26              63.45      4.53                102    6.35      2.1S             57.11      5.."
0.21/90               915    23060    32975       16.93             34.90   115.07   149.97      12.42            19.36             169.3s     12. 3                183   29.93     1o.O            139.42     13.61
0.2719o              10215    22202    32417      16.?              43.31   '42.54   165.85      15.4?            24.01             209.86     15.9                 203   41.9?     14.03            167.69     16.4U
0.36196                0I310    12300    22610    11.6              ss55t6   87.95   143.10      11.9             1.49              161.59     12.2?                233   37.28     12.12            124.31     12.1S
P.451120             13600     9350    2290       11.63            107.96    87.14   195.13      16.23            19.58             214.71     16.23                253   53.6      17.9             161.03     15.7S
0.54/160             10550    129    2Z3539       12.13            106.56   145.22   253.79      21.03            14.02             267.90     20.25                252   66.9      22.43            N00.65     19.61
P. 7o200              3000      5124     8124      4.22             42.64    74.25   117.09       9.7?             5.53             122.62      9.3                 403   49.05     16.43             73.57      7.23
Seal flats            2480         -     2480      1.31              7.54        -      7.54      0.6Z              .00               7.54      0.62                102    0.75      0.33              4.79      0.73
8Hiu  Flats           3845         -     3845      2.03             28.76        -    23.76       2.42              .00              28.76      2.23                10l    2.8i      1.03             25.9       2.51
Ooruitories              -      6000     6000      3.13                 -    25.32    25.32       2.11             3.27              28.59      2.2n                20     5.72      1.9              22.17      2.23
Total               10383!    91025   1960    100.0?               528.24   677.46  1205.72    100.03            117.1t            1322.83    100.02                2    29.41    100.03            1023.42    100.03



- 29
Annex 1
Table 6
AFFORDABILITY ANALYSIS fOR BTN-FINANCED UNITS (in 1985 prices)
Type of            Unit     Damn    Mortgage Interest Monthly  Incose   Household Percentile
Unit               Price    Payment  Value    Rate       Payment  spent an Income    on Income
housing  per month distrib.
(Rp.Mil)           (Rp.Hil)           (Rp.'000)          (Rp.'OOO)
D.15160                2.19        10    1.97         9?   17.99        201   99.96        20
D.18/72                2.77        10    2.49         9?   22.76        20?  113.79        30
D.21/90                4.26        lO    3.83         9?   35.00        20?  175.00        50
0.27/90                5.33        20?    4.26        12?   47.57        25l  190.29        53
D.36/96                6.25        20X    5.00        121   55.78        25?  223.13        58
D.45/120               8.63        25?    6.47        15X   96.17        33?  261.12        65
D.54/160              10.74        25?    8.06        15Z  107.24        33?  324.97        93
9.70/200              14.39        40?    8.63        15?  114.95        33l  348.33        95
Sall Flats            3.04        10?    2.74         9Z   24.99        201  124.88        35
iediun Flats           7.48        10    6.73        15?   89.63        33?  271.59        70
Dorsitories            4.22        20?    3.38        12?   37.66        25?  150.66        40



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
8TN'S PROJECTED FINANCIAL STATEKENTS
Assumptions Underlying Projections of
BTN Financial Statements
Income Statements
Income:
1.   Interest earnings from new housing loans are based on the projected
lending program and the new interest rates for the different types
of mortgage loans (91 for type A, 122 for type B and 151 for type
C,D & E) while interest earnings from the existing loan portfolio
will continue at past rates (5-9X).
2.  For intifest earnings from time deposits and other short-term
investments an average interest rate of 171 p.a. is assumed.
3.   Earnings from fees and service charges are assumed to be 2.51 of the
new loans disbursed by BTN (individual loan application fee 0.51;
fee for developer project proposal processing, 1X; and fees for
supervision on disbursement, 1X).
Expenses:
4.   Interest on borrowings and related charges are based on the current
financing plans and interest rates proposed for borrowings from
various sources: 31 on liquidity credits from Bank Indonesia, 11.51
on the proceeds of the Bank loan; and an average interest rate of
161 on other funds mobilized by BTN.
5.   Payroll and related expenses are estimated to increase at a rate of
161 per annum (real growth at 101 p.a. and inflation at 61 p.a.)
from the actual expenses in FY1984/85.
6.   Other expenses, except for provisions for bad debts, are based on
the following cost ratios as a percentage of total income:
(a)  Material:        2.5Z
(b)  Establishment:   3.51
(c)  Miscellaneous:   2.01
7.   Provisions for bad debts are estimated to be 1.2S of the outstanding
balances and are treated as non-cash charges.



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Corporate Income Tax
8.   It is assumed to be 35Z of the projected profits before tax.
Distribution of Profits
9.   Projected net profits are allocated to dividends and reserves (402
and 60X of the annual net profit in each fiscal year, respectively).
10. Dividends are assumed to be paid-out fully to the central government
in each fiscal year.
11. As for reserves, 27.52 of the projected reserves (202 for special
accounts and 7.5Z for employees' compensation) are assumed to be
paid out in each fiscal year. The remaining 72.5Z are treated as
retained earnings.
Balance Sheets
Assets:
12. Projections of housing loans are based on BTU mortgage financing
program (three year program assumed to be disbursed over four
years).
13. Current maturities for mortgage loans are based on the-lending
pro*ram.
14. Loan principal is assumed to be fully collected, based on current
maturities in each of previous years.
15. Net fixed assets are assumed to increase at 18% p.a. (real growth
12X p.a. and inflation at 6X p.a.) and other assets at 13X (real
growth 72 p.a. and inflation at 6% p.a.)
Liabilities and Equity
16. Long-term liabilities are based on the current financing plan (World
Bank loan is assumed to be fully disbursed over five years).
17. Current maturities for BI liquidity credits are based on 20 year
terms at an interest rate of 3% per annum.
18. Other liabilities include saving deposits (BTU's Tabanas) at an
interest rate of 15% p.a., downpayment saving deposits at 122 p.a.,
time deposits at 17% p.a. and other institutional deposits at 172
p.a. Reserve funds are calculated on the basis of the government
requirement of a minimum reserve ratio of 5Z for BTN's Tabanas and
15% for the other deposits.
19. Paid-in capital is Rp. 100 million and PMP funds from Ministry of
Finance are also treated as equity.



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
20. Retained earnings are derived from the projected income statements.
21. Accounts payable are estimated to be 15% of total operating expenses
in each year.
22. Withholdings from developers are assumed to be 5Z of the value of
each project.
23. Security deposits are assumed to decrease gradually from the out-
standing balance in FY1985/86 based on current BTU's projections.



- 33 -
fIDEl 2
Table 1
BTN CTUAL FINANCIAL PERFOURMNCE (FY98I1/B2-f71984/831
Fiscal Years:               1981182  1902183  113/84  1904/65
Incue Statements lRp billion)
Interest incue                                 15.1     30.4     48.5      78.2
Cost of borrodinqs                              7.3     13.4     20.3      30.0
Net incoee                                      7.0     17.0     28.2      46.2
Operating expenses                              7.7     £1.8     12.8      28.4
Profit (before taxl                             0.1      5.2      15.4     19.8
alance Sheets (Rp billion)
Assets
Current assets                           61.8     15.9    120.0    160.6
housing loams                           191.6    360.9    548.4    816.8
Fixed assets                              8.1      9.3     17.0      13.7
Total Assests                           261.5    446.1    665.4    991.1
Liabilities nd Equity
Current liabilities                      47.6     75.1     71.0     96.1
LIT liabilities                         169.0    281.0    455.6   6S3.1
Equity                                   44.9     90.0    158.8    229.9
Total Liabilities and Equity            261.5    446.1    665.4   "9I.1
Key Indicators
Return on assets (Z)                            2.8      4.2      5.2       5.0
Return on equity I2)                            0.2      5.8      9.7      8.6
Spread                                          3.0      3.8      4.1       4.q
turrent ratios                                  1.3      1.0       1.7      1.6
Debt/equity ratios                              3.8      3.1      2.q       2.9
Debt service ratios                             1.0      1.4      1.8       1.7



- 34 -
Annex 2
table 2
Page 41)
PROJECTED LEIDIN OPERATIlS FOR BIN
Total
1l995/6          19948 7 19871   198           8189  8W-OMB19
WPOAS: (in billion rupiahs)        -- ---                                                ----- - -
(Prelisinary)
A Type Lon
IbRun-Perus               -         _              ,         ,                         -
Perumas                       37.18             44.68    44.68    44.68            134.03
Sub. Total                    31.18             44.6B    44.68    44.68            134.03
a Type Lan
nn-Perums                    167.65             92.71   82.77    82.77             248.32
Pumas                         27.10            28.81    28.81    28.01             86.43
Sub. Total                   194.75            111.58   111t.8   111.58           334.75
C Type Loan
RW-Permas                    152.10            87.85    87.85    87.85            263.55
Perunas                      55.34             59.39    59.39    59.39            178.18
Sub. Total                  207.44             147.24   147.24   147.24           441.73
D Type Loan
Ion-Peruwas                      -                 -        -        -                 -
P.rumnes                      13.91             11.95    11.95    11.95            35.84
Sub. Total                    13.91             11.95    11.95    11.95            35.84
E Type Loun
Non-Peruunas                  19.25             16.29    16.29    16.29            48.87
Perumnas                       8.37              9.40    9.40     9.40             28.20
Sub. Total                   26.62             25.69    25.69    25.N-             77.07
Total Loansa                    479.90            341.14   341.14   341.14           1023.42
(Of ubich:)
ton-Perumnas                 338.00            186.91   196.91   186.91           560.74
Perumnas                     141.90            154.23   154.23   154.23           462.68
Total Loans                 479.9             341.14   341.14   341.14           1023.42
...~~~~~~- -              -. __ _     ----  -_ -- __ -  -   ----   ---     -   --  --------



- 35 -
AEE 2
Table 2
Page (2)
PROJECTED LENDIN 11  RTIONS FOR DIN1
Total
1965186           196@/7  1981/U8  19/891 1999/Y              96/649/
OISUNS: tiU billion rupihs) ----                     ---  ----                --
(Irelioinary)
A Type Loan
lon-Perumas
Peruonas                     29.47              33.51    33.51    33.51    33.51            134.03
Sub. Total                    29.47             33.5t   33.51    33.51    33.51             W34.03
B Type Loaui
Ron-Peunas                   171.10            62.0    62.08    62.08    62.08             248.32
Peruanas                      21.49             21.61    21.61    21.61    21.61            86.43
Suo. Total                   198.59            83.9    93.69    93.69    83.69             334.75
C Type Loan
Non-Perumnas                 160.68            65.89    65.69    65.8    65.09             263.55
Peruenas                     43.87              44.55    44.55    44.55   44.55             178.18
Sub. Total                  204.55             110.43   110.43   110.43   110.43           441.73
I Type Loan
Non-Permunas                     -                 -        -             -            -
Peruonas                      11.02             8.96     8.96     8.96     8.96             35.84
Sub. Total                    11.02             8.96     8.96     8.9      8A.6             35.84
E Type Loan
Non-Peruas                    19.28             12.22   t2.22    12.22    12.22              0.87
Perusnas                      6.64               7.05     7.05    7.05     7.05             28.20
Sub. Total                   25.92              19.27    19.21    19.27    19.21            77.07
Total Loanst                    469.55            255.86   255.86   255.06  255.86            1023.42
(Of which:)
Non-Peruanas                357.06             140.19   140.19   140.19   140.19           560.74
Perumnas                     112.49            115.67   115.67   115.67   115.6?           462.68
Total                       469.55            255.86   255.86   255.86  255.86            1023.42
Cusulated:                      1317.75           1573.61  1829.46  2095.32  2341.17          2341.17



-36-
111 2
PROCE  INCIE STATENT  OF BTi                                    Table 3
(tIn illian iupiabs)
1"4185  165166  190617  1987166  91"816    99/90
INClOK:                              (kctul1a  (Prelielnary)
Interest on Housing Loans             4N.70   97.0    105.05   127.34   158.93   1A.45
Interest on Short-ters Investents       19.00    25.66    27.78    27.78    27.71    27.1
Fees & Service Charg                     9.50    11.14     6.40     6.40      6.0      6.0
Total Iotase                  78.20   134.47   139.23   161.52   193.11   223.63
EXPENSES:
Interest on Borrowings                 30.01    43.31    56.82    77.62   100.45   122.14
Payroll Related Exp.                    13.10    15.20    17.63    20.45    23.72    d .i1
flterials                                1.9      3.36     3.46     4.04      4.83     5.59
Provisions for Dad Debts                11.43    13.69    21.25    24.81    28.27    31.50
Nisellaneous                             1.96     2.69     2.78     3.23      3.8U     4.47
Total Ebpenses                58.40    78.45   103.96   130.oa   161.13   191.92
Profit before Tax                    19.80    56.02    35.26    31.37    31.98    31.71
Less: Corporate Income Tat     6.93    19.61    12.34    io.98    11.19    11.10
Net Profit                           12.87    36.41    '2 a"    20.39    20.79    20.61
kccuneulated                        60.60   17.ai   140.14   160.53   181.31   201.92
Dividends to S6It              S.15    14.57      9.17     8.16     8.31      8.24
Accu uulated                   10.97    25.54    34.70    42.96    51.17    59.42
Reserves:                       7.72    21.85    13.75    12.23    12.47    12.37
cumulated                      16.42    36.27    52.02    64.26    76.13    69.09
Lesst Reserves Paid-Out         2.12     6.01     3.76     3.36     3.43      3.40
Accumulated              4.52    10.52    14.31    17.67    21.10    24.50
Retained Earnings               5.60    15.94     9.497    8.7      9.04      9.97
Accuulated                     11.90    27.74    37.72    46.59    55.63    64-.59



- 3? -
Annex 2
PRWEE  UlmSCE SHEETS OF BTS                                     Table 4
lln lillion Rupiahsl
1984/05  195/06  1986/B7  1987/88  19891N9  199/90
ASSETS6                              (kctual) (Preltematry)
CURErNT ASSETSt
Caaln lnk                     12.72    19.36    25.84    33.93    40.40    l3.27
Short-tern Investeents       115.50   146.20   146.20   146.20   (46.20   146.20
Interest Receivable           I1.43    24.27   26.26    31.84    39.73    47.36
Current Naturity              20.00    22.25    25.57    27.24    37.77    44.2?
Total Current ssets       160.64   212.08   223.87   239.22   264.18   3111O
lIsiWg Loans                       84.20  1317.75  1573.61  1829.47  20M5.33  2341.19
(Less) Current Naturity             20.00    42.25    61.82    95.09   132.85   177.12
Provision for lad Debts      11.43    25.32    46.57    71.38   9.65   13.15
Net Loan Portfolio           816.77  1250.10  145R.22  1663.01  1852.83  2032.92
let Fixed Assets                     S.70    10.27    12.11    14.2V    16.S7    19.91
Other Assets                         5.00      5.65     6.38     7.21     0.15     9.21
Blb. Total                    13.70    15.92   I1.49    21.50    25.02    29.12
Total Assets                 9t.11  1475.19  1701.9  1923.73  2142.03  2373.1S
LIABILITIES 110 EgUITY
CUR0EtT LIAILITIES
Account Payable                2.54      3.19     3.58     4.16     4.86     5.64
Interest Payable               7.50    (0.83    14.71    19.41    25.11    30.71
lortjage Withhold             25.00    30.19   26.45    21.45    16.45    16.45
SeEarity Deposit              42.41    55.13    44.76    32.38    17.79    12.79
Reserve funds                  6.45    10.80      6.70     8.20     9.85    (1.30
Current Jaturity              14.21    20.92    23.92    25.37    25.37    25.37
Total Current Liabilitie   98.12   131.06   120.11   110.96    99.44   102.26
LOWS-TEAl LIASILITIES
lant Indonesia               566.70   936.70   956.70  1014.90  1014.90  1014.90
torld Bunk                        -              23.00   112.80   216.80   295.80
total 1t.  Liabilities    566.70   936.70   979.70  1127.70  1231.70  1310.70
Lesst Current l(aturwtt       14.17    S5.09    59.00    84.39   (09.75   135.12
Ant LUT Liabilities       552.53   001.62   920.70  1043.33  1121.95  1175.58
OTHER LIABILITIES
hSavnqs(ll Ts Tabenas         111.00   135.00   161.00   193.00   228.00   268.00
Lessi Rgerve Funds             5.55     6.75      0.05     9.65    11.40    13.40
net DOposits                 105.45   120.25   152.95   183.35   216.60   254.60
Other Sources                  6.00    70.00   106.Q0   l50.00   204.00   266.00
Lest Reserve Funds             0.90    10.50    25.90    22.50    30.60    39.90
Net Deposits                   5.10    59.50    90.10   12i.50   173.40   226.10
Total Not Deposits           110.55   107.75   243.05   310.55   390.00   480.70
total Liabilities                761.20  1120.42  1283.86  1465.14  1611.39  1758.54
ESUITY
Paid-in Capital                0.10     0.10      0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10
601 Contributions            164.50   276.50   326.50   358.50   421.50   496.50
Retained Earnings             80.80   117.21   140,14   160.53  1(1.31   201.92
Less: Dividends to 601        10.97    25.54    34.70    42.06    51.17    59.42
Reserves paid-out        4.52    (0.52    14.31    17.67    21.10    24.50
…--------… -------------    ---
Total Equity              229.91   357.75   417.13  458.60   530.64   614.60
TOTAL tlABILITIES
AND EQUIty                   91.11  1478.18  1701.59  1923.73  2142.03  2373.15



- 38 -
Annex 2
PROJECTED SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS FOR BTN              Table 5
1984/85 1915/96 1986/17 1987(68 198/18? 1989/90
SOURCES:                             (Actuall (Prelii naryl
Retained Earnings              12.87    36.41    22.92    20.39    20.79    20.61
Provisions for Bad Debts       11.43    13.89    21.25    k4.01    28.27    31.50
Cash 6enerations           24.30    50.30    44.17    45.20    49.06    52.11
Collection of Loans            16.76    20.00    22.25    25.57    27.26    37.71
Paid-in Capital                   -        -        -        -         -        -
601 Contributions             21.00   112.00    50.00    32.00    63.00    75.00
BI Liquidity Credits         214.00   270.00   120.00    58.20       0.00     0.00
World lank                        -        -     23.00    89.80   104.00    79.00
Saving Deposite(Tabanasl       18.00    24.00    26.00    32.00    35.00    40.00
Other Sources                   6.00    64.40    36.00    44.00    54.00    62.00
Current Liabilities            25.00    21.86    -9.84   -12 10   -13.17      1.37
Sub. Total                284.00   491.88   245.16   243.90   242.83   257.37
Total Sources                325.06   562.19   311.58   314.67   319.14   347.25
APPLICATIONS
Loan Disbursements           260.20   469.55   255.86   255.96   255.86   255.86
Short-term Investments        20.00    30.70      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Interest Receibible           12.43    11.94      2.00     5.57     7.90      7.63
Fixed Assets                   4.75      2.22     2.57     3.01      3.52     4.10
Dividends to 601               6.61    14.57      9.17     8.16     8.31      8.24
Reserves paid-out               2.73     6.01     3.78     3.36      3.43     3.40
Reserve Funds                  5.50      6.45    10.80     6.70     9.20      9.85
Repayment of Loans             11.22    14.21    20.92    23.92    25.37    25.37
Total Applications           323.44   555.55   305.10   306.58   312.59   314.46
Increase (decrease) in cash balance      1.62     6.64     6.48     8.09      6.55    32.80
Opening cash balance                    11.09    12.72    19.36    25.84    33.93    40.48
Closing cash balance                    12.72    19.36    25.84    33.93    40.49    73.27



Annex 2
Table 6
PROJECTED PERFORRANCE INDICATORS FOR BTN
1984185 1985/86 1986197 1987(88 198/89 1989190
Operation                            (Actual) (Preliminary)
Gross Income/total assets                 7.9%    10.9l      8.81     8.9Z      9.5X     9.9%
Administrative Costs/total assets         2.91      2.81     2.8Z      2.91     3.01     3.1Z
Financial Costs/total assets              3.02      2.2X     2.4X      2.81     3.2X     3.61
Housing Loansitotal assets               82.4%    84.6%    05.81    86.42    86.5%    85r71
Loan Collectionlloan portfolio            2.1Z      1.6l     1.5X      1.5%     1.5Z     1.91
Interest Incoae/LT borrowings             7.31      9.31     8.4%     E.7%      9.61    10.3%
Financial Costs/LT borrowings             4.4%      4.2%     4.71      5.3%     6.01     6.7%
Net Interest Spread                       2.9%      5.2%     3.71      3.4%     3.51     3.6%
Pro4itability
Incone bfr Fincial Costs/total asset      4.91      7.4%     5.1%     4.61      4.6%     4.51
Profit bfr Tax/total equity               8.61    15.7Z      8.4z     6.8Z      6.0%     5.2%
Net Profit/total equity                   5.61    10.2%      5.5%     4.4%      3.9%     3.41
Financial Position
Current Ratios                            1.6       1.6      1.9      2.2       2.7      3.0
Debt Service Ratios                       1.7       2.0      1.6       1.5      1.4      1.4
Debt/Equity Ratios                        3.3       3.1      3.1      3.2       3.0      2.9



- 40 -
Annex 2
Table 7
TN'S FINANING PAN1 FOR FYIY/87S-F119B919  (IN BIIUON RUPIAHS)
Annual          198U4/5  985/6 Sub.Total         19861/87 1917180 t98/89 1989/90 Sub.Total Percent (Z)
(Actual)   (Preliuinaryl
6DI Contribution           21.00  112.00  133.00           50.00   32.00   63.00   75.00  220.00       221
ilbUquidity Credits)      214.00  270.00  44.00            120.00   51.20       -       -  178.20      171
world BankfIIRD)              -        -       -           23.00   9?.80  tO4.00   79.00  295.90       29
Savings Operations(Tabanas)  18.0    24.00   42.00         26.00   32.00   35.00   40.00  133.00       13?
Othew Swrcu                 6.00   64.00   70.00           36.00   44.00   54.00   62.00  196.00       19
Total             259.00  470.00  729.00          255.00  256.00  256.00  256,00  1023.00     1001



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
PFRUMNAS
1.        The National Urban Development Corporation (PERUMNAS) is an
autonomous state enterprise established in July 1974 under the first Bank-
financed urban project. Its objectives are to develop residential urban land
as well as to plan, construct and sell low and middle income housing
throughout the country, consistent with national policies.
Organization, Management and Staffing
2.        PERUMNAS is headed by a President Director responsible to a
Supervisory Board chaired by the Director General, Cipta Karya, in the
Ministry of Public Works. sThe President Director and four other Directors,
each in charge of a Directorate (Planning, Construction, Estate Management and
Finance) constitute the Board which is responsible for managing PERUMNAS. The
four Directorates are subdivided into seventeen subdivisions (see Chart 1).
In addition, there are seven Branch Offices which report directly to the Board
and several Project Offices (in each location where PERUMNAS is building)
which report to the Board via the corresponding Branch.
3.        PERUMNAS has over 2,500 employees, of which about 500 are located at
the headquarters in Jakarta. Of the total staff, about 175 (7X) are univers-
ity graduates. Of the graduates, over 80 are technical personnel (engineers,
architects and planners) and about 60 are economists.
4.        Overall, the quality of PERUMNAS staff is relatively good and the
institution has demonstrated its capacity to construct a steadiiy increasing
volume of housing to appropriate quality specifications and stringent cost
standards. Its project planning capabilities have also shown marked improve-
ment over the last three years, due largely to the continuing technical
assistance inputs provided to PERUMNAS under the Bank's Fourth Urban Develop-
ment Project. However, its ability to market and sell completed houses and
developed plots, as well as other aspects of its operational and financial
performance, still require improvement.
Operational Performance, Policies and Procedures
5.        During Repelita II, PERUMNAS constructed 50,670 units, increasing
its output by 60X to 81,323 units in Repelita III. During the first year of
Repelita IV, only 10,516 units were constructed, but this was due to a paucity
of working capital funds rather than an inherent decline in its construction
capacity. In fact, as far back as 1979/80, PERUMNAS constructed over 26,000
units in a single year. Such ambitious production rates in a relatively young
organization have revealed, not unexpectedly, sporadic but sometimes serious
problems of poor site selection, inappropriate designs, inefficent procurement
and contract management, as well as excessive maintenance demands. Cursory



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
site investigations prior to purchase, weaknesses in technical capacity of
staff and consultants, onerous GOI procurement regulations (which among other
things dictated packaging of works suitable for small contractors) coupled
with weak supervision, and the absence of comprehensive project monitoring
have led to many of these problems. These weaknesses are being addressed by
PERUMNAS, and further significant measures will be carried out as part of the
agreed Institutional Action Program (Annex 6).
6.        While PERUMNAS had constructed a total of 142,509 units by the end
of March 1985, it had only sold 99,541 of these, leaving an unsold backlog of
almost 43,000 units (although the number of unallocated units was less than
3,000). The problem dates back primarily to the Repelita II period, whe:
50,670 units were constructed but only 38,380 were allocAted and only 888
sold. This was due to various problems which arose in the early years when
PERUMNAS concentrated on housing production and neglected other important
activities such as marketing, estate management and arranging mortgage
financing for its house buyers.
7.        However, the most important contributor to the backlog problem was
the preliminary sale or PPJB policy, under which successful applicants for
PERUMNAS houses moved in and paid their down payment (5-10X) in small install-
ments over two years. At the end of this period, if the entire down payment
had been paid, the house price had been announced and the title had become
available, a mortgage was signed through BTN and the house was finally sold.
In practice, this often took well beyond two years. Although assurances were
obtained as part of the Fourth Urban Development Project that after July 31,
1981, PERUMNAS would sell units immediately on completion, this did not
occur. Instead, the PPJB period was progressively reduced, first to one year
and more recently to three months. PERUMNAS has indicated that for those
units not yet allocated and projects not yet announced, it would now follow an
immediate sales policy.
8.        Another reason for the sales backlog was that PERUMNAS built units
in small communities in response to political pressures for spreading the
public housing program to as many places as possible, and its sites even in
larger cities were often inadequately located. As a result, there was
insufficient demand for the units built by PERUMNAS and many remained unsold
for extended periods.
9.        In addition to the adoption of an immediate sales policy, agreement
was reached with PERUMNAS management on several other important policies and
procedures (see Annex 6, Institutional Action Program), which if implemented,
will lead to a rapid reduction in the backlog of unsold units and ensure
PERUMMAS' future financial viability. Noteworthy among these are the
following:
(a) housing demand studies will be conducted prior to land acquisition
in all cases, and project phasing as well as the mix, quality and
prices of house types and lot sizes will reflect the results of
these studies;



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
(b) the house allocation process will now give priority to those who
have already accumulated the down payment, either in a Tabanas
account or in BTU's new saving for housing scheme;
(c) while final house prices were previously fixed and announced by the
Kinistry of Public Works, often well after houses had been allocated
and occupied, now PERUMNAS will fix its own prices and announce them
prior to house construction being 60% complete, so that the house
allocation and mortgage loan appraisal processes can commence at
this stage;
(d) the bulk of PERUMNAS' units will be built in cities/metropolitan
areas with populations over 100,000 and/or population growth rates
of over 4%, on sites with good access to public transport, employ-
ment opportunities and shopping facilities, so as to ensure that
there is good demand for them;
(e) the principal reasons for delays in processing of PERUMNAS mortgages
by BTN have been identified and regular meetings are taking place
between the Boards and senior managers of the two institutions te
resolve these (see Annex 6 for more details); and
(f) PERUMNAS has now developed an emergency sales program and has
discussed it with BTN. This program has already led to a substant-
ial reduction in the sales backlog, and PERUMNAS is committed to
reducing the remaining backlog of approximately 10,000 completed
units and 14,000 developed plots by one half before March 31, 1987,
and eliminating it entirely before March 31, 1989.
10.       The slowdown of housing sales, coupled with the GOI decision to
discontinue construction fund inflows to PERUMNAS since 1982 (tOI now channels
all funds through BTN), resulted in a scarcity of working capital during the
last few years. This, in turn, has affected the construction program; the
number of units completed dwindled while work-in-process (units under con-
struction) increased rapidly. As a result, over Rp 150 billion is tied up in
projects under construction, exacerbating the working capital problem and
setting a vicious circle in motion. The measures agreed to with PERUMNAS
(summarized in para. 9 above) are already being implemented and will cause an
acceleration of sales revenue inflows, thus allowing PERUMNAS to complete more
projects. Moreover, PERUMNAS has agreed to elaborate a detailed plan for the
completion of projects under construction. The plan will include a priority
ranking of projects, i.e., PERUMNAS will first concentrate on completing those
projects which will produce the quickest and largest return with the lowest
input. PERUMNAS has also agreed to adopt a project monitoring and information
system and technical assistance will be provided for this purpose (Annex 7).
11.       Regarding the composition of PERUMNA' past program, over 501 of the
units constructed through K rch 1985 were 21 m or smaller, and a further 39Z
ranged in siie between 21 mz and 36 m G, Only 10X of the houses ranged
between 37 m and 70 m2. PERUMNAS has thus targetted its construction largely
to low and n ddle income beneficiaries.  However, its system for selection of
beneficiaries has been biased in favor of those with fixed incomes and



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
long-term employment records. Moreover, PERUMNAS (and BTU) have viewed their
primary mandate to be the provision of housing for civil servants and members
of the armed forces, and operated with guidelines specifying that 75S of the
beneficiaries in each project should be from the above categories.
12.       During project preparation, PERUMNAS management agreed to use a
random selection procedure for allocation of units from among qualified appli-
cants.  Moreover, in a letter dated September 9, 1985, addressed to the Board
of Directors of BTN, the Board of Bank Indonesia has clarified that private
citizens with incomes below civil servant salary level four will be equally
eligible for mortgages as civil servants and military personnel, provided they
satisfy the basic eligibility criteria and, like all other applicants, are
able to pay or save the required down payment in advance. Thus, there are no
longer any policy constraints preventing the establishment of a completely
open process of beneficiary selection. The distribution of beneficiaries, in
occupational as well as income terms, requires continued monitoring to ensure
that equal access for eligible beneficiaries is guaranteed.
Financial Structure and Performance
13.       The financial statements of PERUMNAS for the last two years are
presented in Tables 1-3. As is evident from the balance sheets, over 86% of
PERUMNAS' funds have been obtained from government (primarily PMP contri-
butions). The balance are derived primarily from long-term borrowings (5%
from IBRD and ADB), other liabilities such as PPJB installment payments and
short-term bank borrowings and current liabilities. These funds have been
used primarily to fund its noncurrent assets, i.e., projects under con-
struction, and completed units and plots ready for sale.
14.       During 1983/84, PERUMNAS made a net profit of Rp 893 million on
income from house sales of Rp 26.5 billion. In 1984/85, sales revenue
increased to Rp 31.2 billion and profits to Rp 1.15 billion. PERUMNAS has
controlled its fixed and operating expenses effectively over the last four
years (Rp 4.1 billion in 1982/82 and Rp 4.2 billion in 1984/85). Moreover, it
has steadily increased its gross margin on housing unit salce from about 15%
of sales in 1981/82 to almost 20% of sales in 1984/85. As indicated by the
balance sheet, the accumulated losses from the first few years of operations
have also been eliminated. Therefore, PERUMNAS is now poised for much better
performance, provided it can turn over its noncurrent assets more rapidly (the
ratio of noncurrent assets to cost of sales in 1984/85 was 8.2). PERUMNAS
management is now acutely aware of this problem and, as indicated above, is
taking the necessary steps to Liquidate its inventories by increasing sales
and completing projects more quickly.
Future Program, Land Requiremencs and Financial Implications
15.       It is envisaged that during the remaining years of Repelita IV,
PERUMNAS will sell 103,835 units, including 2,480 small flats and 3,845
medium-sized flats (see Table 5 in Annex 1). Of these, some 10,000 units
(including all the flats) have already been built, leaving a balance of 93,835
units to be completed over the program period. This is deemed to be well
within PERUMNAS' capabilities, particularly since a large number of units are



_ 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
already under construction and units on a large proprtion of PERMUNAS'
developed plots (KTMs) would actually be built by private developers and
charged against the PERMUNAS targets.
16.       PERUMNAS has estimated that in addition to the land it has already
banked, it will require an additional 800 ha to fulfill the Repelita IV
program. As indicated above, if PERUMNAS units are not to face demand
problems, this land will need to be well located in larger urban centers.
PERUMNAS has estimated that Rp 50 billion will be required for this land
acquisition program and that it will be able to generate about half of this
from internal sources. The balance (approximately Rp 25 billion) is expected
to come in the form of soft loans from the Ministry of Finance, which
confirmed that this would not represent a problem.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Table I
INDONESIA
ROUSING SECTOR LOAN
PERUMNAS
Profit and Loss Statements
(for the period ending March 31 each year)
1984                 1985
Rp     I of total    Rp     X of total
million    income    million    income
Revenues
House (land) sales                   26,453      92.4     31,198       96.4
Less cost of house & land sales      21,748      76.0     24,886       76.9
Gross Profit From Sales            4,705      16.4      6,312       19.5
Estate management revenues            1I227       4.3        465        1.4
Less estate management expenses       1,484       5.2      2,134        6.6
Gross Profit (Loss) Prom
Estate Management                 (257)     (0.9)     1,669)      (5.2)
Total Gross Profit from Sales
and Estate ManaLement            41448      15.5      4,644       14.4
Operating Expenses
Salaries, wages and allowances        2,701       9.4      2,628        8.1
Transportation expenses                 652       2.3        496        1.5
Office expenses                         895       3.1        969        3.0
Depreciation and misce. expenses        210       0.7        106        0.3
Total Operating Expenses           4,459      15.5      4,199       13.0
Profit (Loss) From Operations        (11)     (0.1)       445        1.4
Other Income
Other income                            940       3.3        706        2.2
Less other expenses                      36       0.1          1        0.0
Net Profit                           893       3.1      1,150        3.6



- 47 -
AMNN  3
Table 2
INDONESIA
ROUSING SECTOR LON
PERUMDAS
Balance Sheets as at March 31
1984                    1985
Rp                    Rp
million   of total    million   of total
Assets
Current assets                                  15,756       7.0       19,740       8.6
Noncurrent assets:
Land                                          65,884      29.1       64,998      28.4
Infrastructure                                47,564      21.0       47,564      20.8
Housing construction                          72,819      32.2       71,884      31.4
Overheads                                      9,830       4.3        9,093       4.3
Materials                                         38       0.0           25       0.0
Long-term receivable                           7,902       3.5        9,010       3.9
Land & buildings for rent                     .1,377       0.6        1,315       0.6
Subtotal                                   205,374       90.8     203.889       89.1
Net fixed assets                                 2,781       1.2        3,551        1.6
Other assets                                     2,261       1.0        1,730       0.8
Total                                       226,172     100.0     228,910      100.0
Liabilities & Net Worth
Current liabilities                             16,785      -7.4        9,092       4.0
Long-term borrowings                             6,363       2.8       10,906       4.0
Other liabilities (including
PPJB Installment)                              6,426       2.8        9,211       4.0
Equity                                           1,000       0.4        1,000       0.4
Government funds (PMP)                         197,682      87.4      198,001      86.5
Retained earnings/(losses)                      (2,084)     (0.9)         701       0.3
Total                                       226,172     100.0      228,910     100.0



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
PERUMNAS
Funds Flow Statement (1984/85)
Rp              2
million        of total
Sources of Funds
From operations                                        2,785            22.4
Increase in long-term borrowings                       4,543            36.5
Inerease in government funds                             319             2.6
Increase in other liabilities                          2,785            22.4
Decrease in net current assets                           531             4.3
Total                                              12,448           100.0
Applications of Funds
Increase in current assets                             3,984            32.0
Decrease in current liabilities                        7,693            61.8
Increase in net fixed assets                             770             6.2
Total                                              12,447           100.0



INDONESIA
Organization of Bonk Tabungon Negaro
I  I                              .           . .          .                             -                          J
I . § -~~~~~~~~~~~~Grw                                                                     r    .  s.  
jOopoimentI          |                 E_co fnomicj                                      B  _|rach    Intern_    |     benerlad|
|   >0}~     Planning     hOnn  I    Affairs         Lon         Tralnkng  i       |Operations      Audit        AdJmh,lstrotn    |Persoqwe'  Secrelortat
F0-~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ai;"                                                          atlon'el's
DebtarS                                   Persaoage
cli ~~~~ K~~d]  I
WoodBk-3O i A2



-50-                         ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR WAN
Bank Tabungan Ne%ara (BTN)
Draft Statement of General and Operational Policies
1.        Ceneral.  Bank Tabungan Negara (BTN), originally established as a
State Savings Bank, was assigned responsibility by GOI for mortgage financing
of low-cost houses built by PERUMIAS in 1975 and was further authorized to
provide mortgage loans for privately developed units in 1978.
2.        Objectives and Areas of Activity.  BTU's main objectives, as indica-
ted in the recent ministerial decree issued by the Ministry for Housing on
September 10, 1985 and in accordance with the letter from Bank Indonesia to
the Board of Directors of STU dated September 9, 1985, which modified Bank
Indonesia': letter of November 6, 1978, are the following:
(a) to stimulate low cost housing by expanding access to housing finance
for low- and middle-income households, and
(b) to mobilize and encourage people's savings.
To further these objectives, BTN's key areas of activity are (a) the provision
of utortgage finance for units constructed by PERUMNAS and private developers,
with emphasis on the core housing units affordable to its target clien:ele;
and (b) the generation of savings through various financial instruments tnd
programs offered to the public and institutional investors.
3.        Uligible Projects.  Each proposed project and individual loan will
be appraised on the basis of the appropriate eligibility criteria. BTN would
require, inter alia, that (a) the size distribution of housing units within
project! correspond approxim tely to at least a 70/30 ratio between small
(c 36 a ) and large (36-70 m ) units; and (b) the income of the subborrowers
4eceiving A-, B- and C-type loans (see item 4 below) would not exceed the
Civil Servant Salary Level 4 or equivalent, but not more than Rp 300,000,
(roughly equivalent to the 80th percentile).
4.        Lending Terms.  BTN's lending terms are of three types, differentia-
ted according to mortgage loan size and unit type:
Type A loans:
(i) interest shall be payable at a rate of not less than 9% p.a.;
(ii) shall be repaid over a maximum period oi 20 years;
(iii) shall be Rp 3,500,000 or less each;



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
(iv) Subborrowers shall pay a down payment of at least 10 of the price
of the housing unit;
(v) Subborrowers shall have a monthly income of Rp 300,000 or less at
the time of approval of the loan; and
(vi) housing units shall have a maximum price which shall noi exceed the
standard price for units of a maximum size of 21    in the aggregate
established from time to time by the Directorate General of Human
Settlements (D.J. Cipta [arya) in the Ministry of Public Works.
v    Type B loansg
(i) interest shall be payable at a rate of not less than 12Z p.a.;
(ii) shall be repaid over a maximum period of 20 years;
(iii) shall be Rp 5,000,000 or less each;
(iv) Subborrowers shall pay a down payment of at least 20S of the price
of the housing unit;
(v) Subborrowers shall have a monthly income of Rp 300,000 or less at
the time of approval of the loan; and
(vi) housing units shall have a maximum price which shall nol exceed the
standard price for units of a maximum size of 36 m the Directorate
General of Human Settlements (D. J. Cipta Karya) in the Ministry of
Public Works.
o    Type C loans:
(i) interest shall be payable at a rate of not less than 15% p.a.;
(ii) shall be repaid over a mazimum period of 20 years;
(iii) shall be Rp 7,700,000 or less each;
(iv) Subborrowers shall pay a down payment of at least 251 of the price
of the housing unit;
(v) Subborrovers shall have a monthly income of fp 300,000 or less at
the time of approval of the loan; and
(vi) housing units shall have a maximum size of 54 m2 in the aggregate
and shall have a maximum price which shall not exceed the standard
price for such units established from time to time by the Director-
ate General of Human Settlements (D.J. Cipta Karya) in the Ministry
of Public Works.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
Two minor variations from these terms will apply to the flats and the largest
(70 m ) units included in the BTN program, for which down payment requirements
will be 10 and 402, respectively (Types D and E).
5.        Mortgage loan sizes to which the different terms will apply will be
updated periodically, in line with the annually revised maximum unit prices
set by the Directorate General of Human Settlements (D.J. Cipta Karya) of the
Ministry of Public Works.
6.        Financial Policies.  STN will aim at earning a stable positive
spread of at least 3.5 points between the return on its average outstanding
loan portfolio and the average cost of its debt. BTN will continue to improve
collection of principal and interest receivable through its arrears management
program and would maintain the amount of arrears to a level not exceeding 2.02
of its entire outstanding portfolio. BTN will set aside a provision for risk
or bad debts equal to at least 12 of its outstanding portfolio. BTY will also
aim at maintaining minimum current and debt service ratios of 1.5 and 1.2,
respectively, and a maximum debt equity ratio of 6.0. BTN will not bear the
exchange risk associated with its foreign currency resources. In compensation
for this, BTN will pay an exchange risk premium to the authority which will
bear this risk, in an amount to be determined in consultation with the
Ministry of Finance.
7.        Management.  The Board of Directors, consisting of a President
Director and two Managing Directors, will examine and approve all financial
commitments in accordance with the policies and regulations established by GOI
authorities and will review the credit operations of BTU periodically to
ensure that all of the credit activities of BTN are meeting its objectives.
BTN will prepare a corporate plan and an annual operating plan covering all of
the necessary activities, including lending, financial and administrative
activities. The operating plan will incorporate projected levels of activity,
revenues and expenses. To allow the Board to decide on the most realistic
alternative for its operations, the operating plan will include alternative
activity projections for the planning period (at least three years), and an
analysis of the impact of alternative scenarios on BTN's income statements and
balance sheets.
8.        Audit.  BTY will provide its major lenders independently audited
annual financial statements within nine months of the end of the fiscal
year. To ensure that BTU benefits from appropriate auditing procedures, it
will employ independent external auditors apart from its internal auditors.
The auditors will provide a detailed management letter covering accounting
systems, compliance with internal guidelines and external regulations and any
relevant matters that are deemed to materially affect the welfare of BTY.
9.        Reporting Requirements.  BTN will furnish its major lenders quar-
terly operating reports. These reports will include appropriate narrative and
statistical information on activity conducted and financial statements, as
well as variances from the annual operating plan of STY.



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
10.       Revision of Statement.  Any revision to this Statement of General
and Operational Policies will be made by the Board only after the Minister of
Finance, the State Minister for Housing and the Governor of Bank Indonesia,
and major lenders (as may be required by specific agreements with such
lenders) have concurred with the proposed revision.



- 54 -
AME  5
Page 1
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
Bank Tabungan Negara (BTN)
Institutional Action Program
1. Management and Corporate Planning
1.1  The board will, by October 1, 1986, adopt a Statement of General and
Operational Policies outlining, inter alia, the objectives of BTU over the
Repelita IV period, as well as its project eligibility criteria, lending
terms, financial and management policies and audit and reporting requirements.
1.2 The internal strategy that BTN intends to follow to meet its objec-
tives will be spelled out in a corporate plan and an updated operating plan
for 1986 which will be prepared by October 31, 1986, and which will include,
inter alia, the requirements for each unit to meet specified targets, with
particular reference to the following:
(a) the mortgage lending program;
(b) the financing plan and resource mobilization strategy, with
special attention to the new savings instruments;
gc) the upgrading of systems to deal with the new PERUMNAS
projects; and
(d) the institutional plan and schedule for new systems implementa-
tion, along the lines recommended by previous consultants,
focusing on new manual and automated systems for Loan Adminis-
tration, Accounting and Follow-up as the top priority.
2. Operational Policies and Procedures
In light of the revised Repelita program for years three, four and
five, STE will make modifications in its current lending policies and
procedures, with specific reference to the following:
A.  Project P.ppraisal and Supervision.
2.1 BTU will strengthen appraisal and supervision of private developer
projects, through, inter alia, the following:
(a)  0TN will  ot provid  any new commitments for privately devel-
oped 54 m and 70 i units except for privately developed units
on plots within PERMUNAS projects, and will closely monitor new
CL (commitment letter) approvals to ensure compliance with its
new policies regarding the size distribution of units;



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
(b) BTN shall reduce average processing time for completed CL
applications from about 30 days to 20 days by January 1, 1987;
(c)  BTN will, by October 31, 1986, separate the subsections dealing
with project and individual loan appraisal in each of its
branches;
(d) BTN will, by October 31, 1986, standardize appraisal formats
and procedures among its branches and between the branches and
head office;
(e) BTN will, by October 31, 1986, evaluate the pilot project in
its Surabaya branch whereby consultants are used for project
appraisal and supervision and then generalize this practice to
other branches until staff can be trained or recruited in suf-
ficient numbers and quality; and
(f) BTh will, by January 1, 1987, develop a computerized informa-
tion base on developers, including ratings of past performance.
2.2 BTN will strengthen appraisal and supervision of PERUMNAS projects
through, inter alia, the following:
(a) BTN will, by October 31, 1986, initiate appraisals of PERUMNAS
project proposals (albeit simplified and selective appraisals)
and monitor construction progress to determine, inter alia,
when to begin processing individual loan applications; and
(b) BTN will, by October 31, 1986, establish procedures for
appraising PERUMKAS projects through joint workshops with
PERUMNAS;
B.   Individual Loan Appraisal.
2.3 BTN will strengthen individual loan appraisal procedures throught
inter alia, the following:
(a) BTN will, by October 31, 1986, revise general eligibility
criteria to conform with Bank Indonesia's letter on this
subject;
(b) BTN will, by October 31, 1986, revise the loan application form
in order to strengthen the credit appraisal process. The new
form should include the following: (a) total household income,
(b) total net wealth of household (assets and liabilities), (c)
fixed monthly obligations, and (d) sources of funds for down
payment;



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
(c)  STN will, by October 31, 1986, revise loan approval procedures
so that all loans are approved by a loan committee comprising
at least three persons,-rather than just the Branch Manager.
The committee's agenda would also include making
recommendations to the head office regarding developer
proposals. Minutes of meetings would be sent to the head
office and would be subject to operational audits;
(d)  individual applicants should be processed before projects are
completed;
(e)  BTN will not appraise private companies prior to approving
their employees for loans unless the company sponsors the
housing project or guarantees the loans; and
(f)  BTN will, by October 31, 1986, begin to monitor the distribu-
tion of loan beneficiaries in terms of income and occupation to
ensure appropriate targeting of the lending program and equal
access for eligible or qualified applicants.
2.4 After pilot tests in three locations, BTN has begun implementing its
new Downpayment Savings Scheme (TUM-KPR) on April 1, 1986. Although
this scheme is expected to facilitate BTN's individual loan
appraisal and supervision, BTN needs to take several measures to
ensure the scheme's success, including, inter alia, the following:
(a)  BTN will, by March 31, 1987, take stock of the transitional
experience with its down payment savings scheme (TUM-KPR) and
will, thereafter, consider incorporating into such scheme the
recommendations of the evaluation; and
(b)  BTN will introduce additional flexibility or eliminate
unnecessary rigidity in the scheme (e.g., on withdrawal or
cancellation).
C.   Loan Supervision and Follow-up.
2.5 BTE will implement, with the assistance of consultants, a new manual
loan accounting system as a transition to automation and make a
systematic effort to link KPR loan administration and arrears data.
2.6 STU will implement, by October 31, 1986, its new Guidelines for
Arrears Management.  These include, inter alia, the following:
(a) immediate steps to improve the reporting systems on arrears
from collection centers such as banks and site offices;
(b)  specific procedures to deal with different age categories of
arrears (e.g., reminder notices, door-to-door interviews);
(c)  close monitoring of new accounts and prompt follow-up, within
the month of arrears arising;



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
(d) a new system of payment to be implemented via the post office
network as of October 31, 1986; and
(e) BTN will, by October 31, 1986, establish a special unit in each
branch to manage arrears under the supervision of the Biro of
Branch Operations at the head office.
3. Organization
3.1  BTY will, with the assistance of consultants, review and modify its
present organizational arrangements to improve the efficiency and
control of lending operations.
3.2  BTN will, by January 1, 1987, establish (in branches and the head
office) separate Loan Department sections dealing with:
(a) project appraisal and supervision,
(b) loan preparation; and
(c) portfolio and arrears management.
3.3  BTU will, by October 31, 1986, strengthen and reorganize the
Internal Audit Department in order to improve internal control and
expedite new systems implementation;
3.4  BTU will, by October 31, 1986, create within the Internal Audit
Department a new system audit section manned by at least three
experienced systems personnel, which will ensure that all new
systems are implemented, with modifications where deemed
necessary. This subsection will report directly to the Board and
will be the interface between the external consultants and the
various Biros for system implementation. It will also work with
Training to design a detailed working plan for staff training in new
systems. Finally, this subsection will be responsible for
monitoring progress (quarterly reports) and evaluating the success
of new systems implementation within the organization.
4. Branches
4.1  BTN will, with the assistance of consultants, formulate working
plans to implement immediately in its branches the new systems which
have already been designed, particularly for loan administration,
accounting and follow-up (as well as MIS), paying special attention
to those branches that are likely to face the most pressure from an
accelerated PERUMNAS sales program.
4.2  BTN will, by October 31, 1986, identify and train in-house personnel
(at least two at each major branch) to work with the consultants
full-time on new systems introduction and monitoring.



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5
5. Management Information System
5.1 STN will upgrade the timeliness and accuracy of the data that is
presently available, especially on commitments, loan processing,
disbursements, arrears, savings and financial accounting.
5.2 BTU will, by October 31, 1986, use the monthly MIS format developed
by the previous consultants in the HIS manual; and implement MIS
systems that have been recommended and designed, with minor modifi-
cations if necessary.
6. Staffing and Training
6.1 BTU will produce a manpower development plan (with the aid of con-
sultants experienced in Personnel Management) which will identify in
detail, inter alia, BTN's recruitment and training needs, as well as
remuneration packages required to attract and retain qualified
staff.
6.2  BTN will, by October 31, 1986, induct the 90 newly recruited
graduates selected in January 1986 and will take steps to recruit
additional graduates pending the results of the manpower development
study.
6*3 BTE will, by August 1, 1987, finalize arrangements with LPPI (Insti-
tution for Banking Development in Indonesia) and the Education Sec-
tion of BPKP (State Audit Agency) to provide for regular trainers
and assistance to BTN's new Training Department.
6.4 BTU will, to make maximum use of its training facilities, train at
least 250 staff members per year in various operational subject
matters.
6.5  The Training DepArtment will, by January 1, 1987, translate the new
systems development programs into training packages suitable for the
absorptive capacity of existing BTN staff and will also identify and
train appropriate staff in the branches as trainers in specialized
activities.
7. External Audit
7.1 BTU will ensure that financial statements are audited and provided
to its major lenders within nine months after the end of each fiscal
year (this should be facilitated by the ongoing implementation of
the new financial accounting system).
7.2 BTE will take steps to deal with the qualifications made on earlier
accounts in each successive year.



INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
Organization of Perumnas
Boatd
Preskdent
Director
Direcbt otf                       Director of                        Director of                        Drector of
Planning                        Contction                               t M ate                       Administraton
Program                           Bukgg &                            Region B                RItOl
Programming  Emal Coop             E      ing  Landscpcng              Allocation   Region C                 H
Monitoting                        Dtng                               Public Fadlites
Region A                          Programming                         TWr  and Rates                    S &  Bn efits
Planning &   ReinB                Contracting  Bid Preparation          als&     Leases                             Stawff Rltin
-esb      ARegion              - E3Cf         Bid Award               L          Sale       &l                             & O g.
Feasibility   I~~~eg~ C           Contrac Adrnin.sle                                ~rzao&  g
Reseorci,                                                            Repxairs &                         Budge Planning
Land                                        Iniern                             mprovemfents            Bugt&      Reglonal Budgets
Acquisiton   AceuisMon             Supervision                       Maintenance Utlfitie    &            Iane      iesmntsa
Program
Research   Cil Works                           r      Il                         Programming                       Central
Buildings        Progromming             Lego      ~~~~~~Advice                        Rgo 
&       Bulding                Logistics    Procurement            Public    Owe Acfion              Treasurer   Region A
Planning                          MaterIAls Producion     ReKOns                                        RgDocumentitbn  IQlon C
Central
Accounts &  Region A
Audit    Region 8
Region C
Seven Branch Offices
World Bank - 305411
Y-ig
:1:



- 60 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
PERUNAS
Institutional Action Program
l.        Special Sales ProLram to Reduce Backlog of Completed but Unsold
Units and Plots
1.1 PERUMIUS shall reduce the existing sales backlog as at March 31,
1986, of approximately 10,000 completed units and 14,000 developed
plots (KTN) by one half before March 31, 1987, and the remainder
before March 31, 1989. For this purpose, PERUMNRA will continue to
use the procedures adopted in joint meetings with BTN and described
in the Appendix to this Annex.
1.2 PERUWIAS will implement the recommendations of a final report
prepared jointly with the Inspector General's Office, Ministry of
Public Works concerning the persistently high vacancy rates at nine
project locations before October 31, 1986.
2.        Revised Programming, Site Selection, and Feasibility Study
Procedures. In order to ensure continued efficiency in its sales program, the
PERUNUAB Board will adopt and implement the following policies and procedures:
City Selection Criteria.
2.1 PERUMNAS will develop its future projects to maximize the number of
units in metropolitan/city areas with populations over 200,000
and/or population growth rates of over 4X (as determined using the
latest available data). In the case of land already bought and
banked by PERUMMAS in areas which do not meet the criteria (thus
with limited housing demand), PERUMNAS will either attempt to sell
these sites or delay their development until demand is shown to
exist. Where PERUNVAS is requested by the Government to build in
remote locations for political reasons, those projects will be small
in size (below 200 units).
Demand Studies and Project Planning.
2.2 Housing demand studies will be conducted prior to site selection and
land acquisition. Survey methods and analyses performed to date will
be fully operational by April 1, 1987 and will be the prime
responsibility of each Branch Office. Technical assistance to the
Branch Offices will be provided by the Read Office staff and
consultants. The demand analysis will make recomuendations with
respect to possible project size, phasing and house type
distribution and will include target prices and plot sizes. Each



- 61 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
city or area requesting a PERUWNAS project will be required to
complete the "Daftar Pertanysan Kota" or city statistics ques-
tionnaire and assist in the interview process for the demand study.
Prefeasibility and Site Selection Analyses.
2.3  A prefeasibility study will be conducted prior to land acquisition
and as part of the site selection analysis. PERUMNAS will make use
of the "Analysis Kelayakan dan Keterjangkauan Proyek Pembansunan
Perumahan Sederhana" model (prefeasibility model) which allows a
quick evaluation of costs and profit margins for each proposed
site. The study will estimate the likely cost of development
matched to predicted demand and estimated project revenues. Project
proposals which are estimated to be below the financial break-even
point will be considered for elimination or restructuring.
2.4  PERUMNAS will allocate an adequate number of man-days for site
selection activities. Field study will include cadastral, topo-
graphic, soils and hydrological investigations. PERUMNA5 will
either staff land investigation teams with engineers experienced iu
these investigations or will use local consultant expert in the
various disciplines. Preliminary tests will be made on soils to
determine soil type and behavior.
2.5  Housing sites will be located in areas with reasonable access to
public transport, employment opportunities and shopping and social
facilities. A checklist system to ensure that the site has access
to essential services such as water, electricity and flood control
will be implemented. PERUMNAS will make full use of the recent
aerial photo maps (contoured) available from the Director General
Agraria's Office.
Feasibility Studies.
2.6  Improved prefeasibility investigations will assist in the
feasibility study. As from October 31, 1986, PERUNNAS will ensure
that topographic, hydrological and off-site information is complete
and accurate before finalizing the feasibility study. Advanced
preliminary engineering designs will be undertaken and costs based
on these designs. BRK review planning meetings will include Branch
Office staff. Land use design and costing will be supported by
software at present in place or in the process of acquisition.
PERUMOAS will ensure that feasibility teams include the experienced
planners and consultants necessary to this process.
3.   Revised Pricing, Marketing and Sales Procedures.
Pricing.
3.1 PERUMMAS will formulate and fix house and plot prices on the basis
of the detailed feasibility study (Buku Rencana Kelayakan or BRK).
These prices can be announced before construction starts to enable



- 62 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
prospective homeowners to save for a fixed down payment, payable
either directly to PERUMNAS or to 8TN, using the down payment
savings program Tabungan Uang Muka or TUM. The BRK sales prices
will contain both price and physical contingency allowances, and
include price escalation factors through to the estimated year
sale. PIRUMMAS will continue to use its current pricing formula
which aims at full recovery of all capital costs and financial
charges and, through continuing design and construction management
improvements, will ensure that unit costs remain low.
Immediate Sale Policy.
3.2 PERUMEAS will ensure that the down payment amount and closing costs
have been paid before occupancy occurs.
Conmitment Letters (CLs) from Bank Tabungan Negara.
3.3 Commencing October 31, 1986, PERUMNAS will obtain from BTN a
Commitment Letter (CL) for each project, regardless of whether or
not it requires construction financing for the project. This is
required to ensure early coordination between BTU and PERUMNAS and
to facilitate mortgage loan processing for the project.
Selection of Beneficiaries, Unit Allocation and Mortgage Processing.
3.4 Mortgage loan applications from nonfixed-income applicants are now
permitted under the new mortgage lending criteria established in
Bank Indonesia's letter to BTN dated September 9, 1985. PERUMNAS
will revise the selection procedures for applicants by October 31,
1986, to eAsure equal access with maximum administrative efficiency
(i.e., implement an automated random selection procedure for
qualified applicants). To streamline allocation and loan processing
and eliminate delays, PERUMMAS and BTN will combine the responsi-
bility, procedures and appraisal forms required for unit allocation
and mortgage processing by October 31, 1986.
Marketing Campaigns.
3.5 Promotional and advertising campaigns will occur at the demand
analysis phase (SKPR). Meetings with the Walikota/Bupati and local
government officials will be required early in the life of the
project, and local cooperatives and target groups will receive
p.romotional material for their members regarding an upcoming
PERUMNAS project. The BRK will contain one complete section devoted
to a marketing plan and selected target groups. It is estimated
that following a trial period,this work will be standardized in the
83K reporting format by October 31, 1986.
Titling and Plot Measurement Problema.
3.6 PERUNEAS will establish joint task forces by October 31, 1986, with
the staff of the Director General Agraria at the local level



- 63 -
AME   6
Page 4
(Tingkat II), which will meet periodically and resolve problems on
site, if required. PERUMMAS will also discuss policies and
procedures which are deemed inadequate with the Director General
Agraria and other policymakers.
4.   Revised Construction Policies and Procedures.
Current Construction Program.
4.1 By October 31, 1986, PERUMNAS will rank projects under construction
and develop a detailed action plan showingt
(a) the status of each project, including the value and types of
contracts required for completion, the estimated completion
date and any problems or reasons for delay;
(b) the likely demand for the project including a marketing plan,
the estimated sales program and the timing of sales revenues;
(c) from the estimated revenues and expenditures a priority ranking
will be prepared and projects will be completed in accordance
with their ranking; and
(d) the action plan will be updated on a quarterly basis, showing
the current construction and sales position.
Detailed Design.
4.2 PERUNVAS will immediately commence the development of a systematic
"library of standards." The library will include standard
specifications and designs which have been tried and tested in
use. These designs will be used both by PERUNMAS and its
consultants. PERUMNAS will immediately examine its system of
consultant selection to reflect the high degree of competence
expected. PERUMNAS will, in the future, avoid customized one-of
designs, except in unusual circumstances, and will used standardized
designs, materials and specifications.
Procurement.
4.3 PERUMNAS will immediately commence screening of nationallr qualified
contractors for its short list, using its knowledge of contractors'
abilities. Where possible, PERUMIAS will package work in packets
suited to Class A contractors. Such contracts, where suitable, will
be "general contracts" for all aspects of the work including
material supply, thus reducing the project management and work
scheduling at present undertaken by PERUHIAB. Contracts awarded by
PERUMMAS exceeding the equivalent of US$5 million will be tendered
by International Competitive Bidding, where appropriate, following
prequalification of interested bidders. PERUMNAS will immediately
improve its bid evaluation systems to ensure that the lowest
responsive bid is the recipient of the award. PERUMKAS will retain



- 64 -
AUNEX 6
Page 5
control of subcontracting by ensuring that contract documents afford
PERUMNAS both the right of approval and the right of nomination.
Construction Management and Supervision.
4.4  In conjunction with the change towards contractor-based construction
management. PERUMNAS vill allocate site supervison staff in
sufficient numbers with experienced technical guidance. PERUMNAS
will proceed immediately with a site supervisor training program and
will ensure that site staff are competent to interpret specifica-
tions, check contractors' materials and works and have clear author-
ity to reject unsatisfactory work. PERUMNAS will immediately ensure
that where quality control, communications or other equipment is to
be supplied by the contractor, the items will be listed in the con-
tract documents prior to tender. PERUMNAS will immediately improve
quality control audit. A team will visit sites unannounced from
time to time to detect problems and to assist in chAnneling
appropriate assistance.
Maintenance and Bandover.
4.5  PERUMAS will ensure that discussions take place with local
authorities during the planning stage and that clear lines of
responsibility for maintenance and take-over are established.
PERUMNAS recognizes that low-cost systems are often maintenance-
intensive and will establish a maintenance control system to ensure
properly supervised maintenance, thus avoiding delays in take-over
due to poor maintenance.
Monitorig and Programming.
4.6  To provide continous technical guidance and control throughout the
construction process, PERUMNAS will do the following:
(a) PERUMNAS will, whenever possible, appoint project managers at
the feasibility stage of the project;
(b) PERUMNAS will consider, and if regulations permit, by
October 1, 1987, appoint a "chief engineer" or "technical
director" to control technical features and the planning,
design, construction and maintenance process for all projects;
and
(c) PERUMNAS will, by October 31, 1986, introduce computer-assisted
construction programs. A monitoring program will be introduced
to enable each project to be monitored in detail from inception
to completion. Each stage of the program through feasibility,
construction and sales will have detailed subprograms capable
of measuring performance against predetermined standards.
Personnel will be trained at both Branch and Head Offices in
the implementation of the program.



- 65 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6
Project Construction Award Approvals.
4.7 PERUMNAS is a publicly owned real estate developer, constructing
housing projects from its own revenues in competition with other
developers. PERUMNAS will therefore take immediate steps to
minimize the control and approvals required for contract award which
are currently in place with the Department of Public Works and/or
other authorities who have already been consulted in the work
program and annual budget process. It is recommended that PERUMNAS
should submit to the Department of Public Works a quarterly report
on project activity and project expenditure and not be required to
seek approval for every contract.
5.   Land Acquisition.
5.1 Current PERUMNAS estimates indicate that a land acquisition program
of approximately 800 ha is required to meet the Repelita IV
program. PERUMMAS will therefore immediately start identifying
appropriate sites in key metropolitan areas, and initiate demand
survey and site selection programs. Since the internal generation
of funds from sales revenues may not be sufficient to finance such
large-scale land acquisition, PERUMNAS will attempt to obtain soft
loan funds for this purpose from the Ministry of Finance. Cash flow
projections for FY86/87 and FY87/88 indicating the shortage of
funds, in view of the timing of land acquisition, will be prepared
by PERUMNAS for submission to the Ministry of Finance. In the
longer term, PERUMNAS will need to rely on other funding sources.
Therefore, PERUMNAS will begin exploring and developing schemes such
as land bonds, guided land development, land readjustment, land
consolidation and option purchase, as well as equity participation
with private landowners.
6.  Electronic Data Processing (EDP) Suystems, Including a Management
Information System and Accounting System.
6.1 PERUMMAS will officially establish an EDP subdivision in the head
office before June 1, 1987. PERUMNAS, working with consultants,
will undertake a conceptual systems design and identify and priori-
tize areas which would benefit from computerization. Software appli-
cations will be developed by the EDP consultants and a training
program implemented.
6.2 PERUMNAS will take steps to ensure that implementation of the
following systems have been completed and are or will be
operational:
(a)  financial   C    g     ` twti v CihP.) to include branch office
and proicct ui&L aCCOUnting systems (by October 31, 1986);
(b)  a construction cost accounting system (by October 31, 1986);
(c) a budgeting system to be installed by October 1, 1987, to



- 66 -
ANNEX 6
Page 7
assist budget preparations for PY87/88; and
(d) a MIS system (by July 1, 1987).
6.3 ?UUIMAB will ensure that its financial statements for the year
1984185 are completed and audited by October 31, 1986. PERUMNAS
will implement procedures to enable future annual financial
statements to be audited within six months of the end of the fiscal
year. PERUMHAS will attempt to ensure that an unqualified audit
opinion can be obtained for future years by systematically
eliminating qualified items contained in past BPKP audits. PERUMNAS
may attempt to hire independent external auditors if the State Audit
Agency (BPKP) cannot fulfill the work on time.
7. Corporate Manpower Plan and Training Program.
7.1 PIRUMMAS will, by December 31, 1987, develop a corporate manpower
plan to reflect its three major tasks: (a) corporate planning; (b)
design and production; and (c) marketing and sales. Technical staff
requirements and training programs to support the proposed
reorganization plan will be developed.
8.   Comunications Program to Assist Advertising, Marketing and Sales.
8.1 Hardware and software for multimedia presentations to support both
the demand analyses and marketing phases will be developed with
consultant assistance. A communications program for the corporation
to include a review of all current marketing and consumer infor-
mation aids/questionnaires will be completed by December 31, 1987.



- 67 -
ANNEX 6
Page a
APPENDIX TO AMNEX 6
Procedures to be Used in Expediting
Sales of Current Backlog
1.        Irregular Plots.  For those projects affected by the problem of lot
sizes different from those indicated in the original commitment letter (CL),
PERUMNAS will resubmit comprehensive project proposals to BTN which
incorporate site plans and specifications approved by the concerned local
government. BTN has undertaken to process these promptly. In the future,
PERUMNAS will plan sites such that all but corner lots are of a standard size
and will ensure that site development takes place in accordance with the site
plans incorporated in the CLs.
2.        Notaries.  To prevent delays in mortgage signing where there are no
notaries (at certain project locations), PERUMNAS (and BTU) will  confirm with
the Ministry of Justice that the necessary documents can be executed in the
presence of Walikotas, Supatis or Camats.
3.        Problem Applicants.  In those cases where mortgage signing is held
up because the occupants of the house are different to those who signed the
original PPJB agreement, PERUMNAS will (subject to eligibility) officially
transfer the PPJB agreement and subsequent mortgage agreement to the actual
occupants.
4.        Problem Applicants.  In cases where occupants have not accumulated
requisite down payment by the end of the PPJB period (primarily due to house
price revisions), PERUMNAS will either:
(a) demand the balance down payment in cash (or accelerated
installments); or
(b) if (a) is not feasible or the difference is small, PERUMNAS will
write off the balance (i.e., give a discount), since the opportunity
cost of delaying receipt of the mortgage funds will, in most cases,
far exceed the amount in contention.
5.        Delinquent PPJB Payments.  Where occnpants have not made regular
payments or are in arears, PERUMNAS will:
(a) do an inventory of these arrears by age structure; and
(b) in the case of chronic cases, seek to evict such persons without
recourse to Ministry of Justice procedures, so that the unit may be
rellocated and sold.
6.        Overpaid Down Payments.  In such cases, PERUMNAS will request BTE to
expedite mortgage processing and pay back the excess amount to the occupants
from the mortgage proceeds.



- 68
ANNEX 6
Page 9
7.        Inadequate BTU Staff.  For large projects, where mortgage processing
is delayed by inadequate BTN staff, BTN has committed itself to creating
"flying brigades" to supplement local branch staff. This program should be
closely monitored by PERMUNAS and delays by BTU in the field reported directly
to the BTN Board.



- 69 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
Technical Assistance Program V
A. Institutional Development Assistance for BTN
1.   Consultant Services for Implementation of New Systems
Objectives:                             To implement new manual and automated
systems for (a) loan administration,
processing and accounting, including
arrears administration; (b) savings
administration and accounting; (c)
financial accounting and administra-
tion; (d) management information; and
(e) planning, programming and budget-
ing.
Duration of Service:                    September 1986 - August 1988.
Costs:!'                                Nan-month         Cost
(a) STN headquarters
Foreign                                   48          576
Local                                     48          288
Subtotal                                  96          864
(b) BTU Branches
Local                                    288        1,728
Subtotal                                 288        1,728
Total                                    384        2,592
1/ Terms of reference for technical assistance have been prepared by the
respective agencies, with the assistance of consultants and Bank staff.
All TORs were finalized by April 1, 1986 and are available in the Project
File.
2/   All costs are in US$ thousands.  See Table 1 for overall suemmry.



- 70 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
2.   Management Advisor
Objectives:                        To provide BTNhs Board and senior staff
with advice and assistance on, inter
alia: (a) planning and monitoring
mortgage lending and savings
activities; (b) branch operations; (c)
internal policies and procedures; and
(d) reporting requirements.
Duration of Services               September 1986 - August 1987
Costs:                             Man-months        Cost
Foreign                                     12        144
3.   Advisory Services for Manpower Planning
Objectives:                        To (a) review organizational structure
and recommend changes to improve opera-
tional performance; (b) assess existing
manpower and determine short-term and
long-term recruitment and training
needs, in light of corporate objec-
tives; (c) design summary job descrip-
tions and a performance appraisal sys-
tem; (d) recommend new recruitment and
training policies and programs, as well
as remuneration packages; and (e)
develop a comprehensive manpower plan.
Duration of Services:              September 1986 - August 1987.
Costs:                             Man-months        Cost
Local                                     12         72
B. Institutional Development Assistance for PERUMNAS
4. Advisory Services for Manpower Planning
Objectives:                        To develop a detailed manpower plan,
including identification of staffing,
recruitment and training needs and rec-
ommendations on required compensation
packages.



- 71 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
Duration of Services:                   January 1987 - December 1987
Costs:                             Man-months        Cost
Local                                       12         72
5.   Advisory Services for Management and Finance
Objectives:                        To (a) advise PERUMMAS Board on overall
policy, management, planning and finan-
cial issues; (b) develop and implement
a management information system; and
(c) assist PERUMNAS in relations with
BTN and other agencies.
Duration of Services%              September 1986 - August 1988
Costs                              Man-months        Cost
Foreign                                   24        288
6.   Advisory Services for Project Monitoring System
Objectives:                        To design and implement a project
monitoring system suited to PERUMNAS'
needs, including on-the-job training of
project managers to effectively use the
system.
Duration of Services:              September 1986 - August 1987.
Costs:                             Man-months        Cost
Foreign                                      6         72
Local                                       12         72
Total                                     18        144
7.   Advisory Services for Computerization
Objectives:                        To determine PERUNNAS's computerization
needs, including:
(a) identification and prioritization
of areas which would benefit from com-
puterization;
(b) broad conceptual systems design;
(c) identification of a suitable ini-
tial hardware configuration based on
(a) and (b) above; and



72-
ANNEX 7
Page 4
(d) recommendation of a computeriza-
tion strategy and assistance with ini-
tial implementation of the strategy.
Duration of Services:              September 1987 - August 1989.
Costs:                             Man-months       Cost
Local                                      12          72
C.  Assistance to the Office of the State Minister for Housing
for Sector Policy Studies
8.   Consultant Services for a Study of Housing Market Behavior in Urban
Indonesia
Objectives:                        To (a) provide accurate information on
the housing conditions and demand pat-
terns of different groups (e.g., by
income, tenure and location) in order
to improve projections of housing
demand and affordability; and (b) pro-
vide more accurate information on the
supply processes for formal and infor-
mal housing and the related regulatory
and incentive frameworks in order to
enhance the role of the private sector
in the provision of low cost housing.
Duration of Services:              January 1987 to June 1988.
Costs:                             Man-months        Cost
Foreign                                    36         432
Local                                      36         126
Total                                    72         558
9.   Consultant Services for a Post-Construction Evaluation of Low-Cost
Housin8
Objectives:                        To examine the post-construction expe-
rience of PERUMMAS and privately devel-
oped projects in selected locations
(with special attention to rental
values, turnover, further investment in
housing, etc.) in order to improve the
design and effectiveness of housing
projects and policies.



- 73 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5
Duration of Services:              March 1987 to September 1988.
Costs:                             Man-months        Cost
Foreign                                    18         216
Local                                      24          84
Totel                                    42         300
10. Consultant Services for Housing Policy Analysis
Objectives:                        To (a) assist the Ministry in the anal-
ysis of policy issues related to finan-
cing and composition of the housing
program, flats, urban renewal, etc.;
(b) monitor and evaluate the progress
of the Repelita IV program and Housing
Sector Loan; and (c) assist in detailed
preparation of the Repelita V housing
program.
Duration of Services:              January 1987 to December 1988.
Cost:                              Man-months        Cost
Foreign                                    24         288
11. Consultant Services for Land Titling Study
Objectives:                        To (a) identify land related bottle-
necks in t4e housing sector, including
land titling, measurement and registra-
tion problems faced by PERUMNAS and BTN
beneficiaries; and (b) identify possi-
ble solutions and technical assistance
for DC Agraria to ameliorate these.
Duration of Services:              March 1987 - February 1989
Costs                              Man-months        Cost
Local                                      24          84



-74-                                    ANNEX?7
Table 1
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
Summary of Technical Assistance Costs
Local               Foreign               Total
Man-      Cost       Man-      Cost       Man-       Cost
months  (US$'000)   months  (US$'000)   months  (US$'000)
BTN
System implementation
Head office                      48        288        48        576        96        864
Branches                       288       1,728        -           -       288      1,728
Management advisor                  -          -        12        144        12         144
Manpower planning                  12         72         -          -        12          72
Subtotal BTN                  348       2,088        60        720       408      2,808
PERUMNAS
Manpower planning                  12         72         -          -        12          72
Management consultant               -          -        24        288        24         288
Project monitoring system          12         72         6         72        18         144
Computerization                    12         72         -          -        12         72
Subtotal PERUMNAS              36         216       30         36         66        576
Office of the State Minister
for Housing
Housing market study               36        126        36        216        42         300
Post-construction evaluation
study                           24          84        18        216        42        300
Housing policy analyst             -           -        24        288        24        288
Study of land titling
and TA for Agraria              24          84         -          -        24         84
Subtotal Office of the
State Minister for
Housing                      84         294       78         936       162      1,230
Equipment and Training                -          -         -        750         -        750
Total (Base Cost)             468       2,598       168      2,766       636      5,364
Price Contingencies                   -        300         -        400         -         700
GRAND TOTAL                                                                       6,064



- 75 -
ANNEX 8
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ mln)
Estimated            Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year                    disbursements          disbursements
Total      z
1987
First semester                         2.7                2.7        1.0
Second semester                       19.3               22.0        8.0
1988
First semester                        41.3               63.3       23.0
Second semester                       46.7              110.0       40.0
1989
First semester                        55.0              165.0       60.0
Second semester                       41.3              206.3       75.0
1990
First semester                        10.2              236.5       86.0
Second semester                       18.7              255.2       93.0
1991
First semester                        14.3              269.5       98.0
Second semester                        5.5              275.0      100.0



- 76 -
ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
Documents Available in the Project File
1. Mission Working Papers
(a) Back-up Tables for Economic Analysis
(b) Back-up Tables for Financial Analysis
(c) Consultant Report on BTN
(d) Consultant Report entitled "Analysis of BTN's Financial Performance"
2.  Other Documents on Sector/Institutional Issues
(a) Ministerial Decree No. 08/KPTS/85 by the Minister for Housing,
regarding "policy and program for housing supply supported by
mortgage financing from Bank Tabungan Negara (National Savings Bank)
during Pelita IV', dated September 10, 1985 (translation dated
October 14, 1985);      d
(b) Letter to the Board of Directors, Bank Tabungan Negara from the
Bosrd of Directors, Bank Indonesia, regarding "Home Mortgage
Financing", dated September 9, 1985 (translation dated October 14,
1985);
(c)  Government of Indonesia, Housing Sector Policy Statement, March 17,
1986.
(d) USAID, Indonesia -- Shelter Sector Assessment, January 1985.
(e) Terms of Reference for all items in Technical Assistance Program
(Annex 7).
(f) Formats for BTN Subproject Appraisal Summary and Quarterly Report.



_ 77 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDONESIA
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
Government of Indonesia
Housing Sector Policy Statement (Summary Version)
1.        The Government of Indonesia has developed and adopted a detailed
housing mortgage financing program for fiscal years 3, 4 and 5 of Repelita IV
(1986-89). The development of this program was co-ordinated by the Office of
the State Minister for Housing, working closely with the key agencies in the
housing sector, and focuses primarily on the supply and mortgage financing of
low cost units affordable by low and middle income families. The program is
contained in the policy directive (Surat Keputusan No. 08/KPTSI1985) issued
and signed by the State Ministar for Housing on September 10, 1985. The
revised mortgage lending terms and conditions required for the program are
officially described in a letter from Bank Indonesia's Board of Directors
addressed to the Board of Directors of Bank Tabungan Negara (BTN), and is
dated September 9, 1985.
2.        Key government objectives in the design of the program are the
following:
(a) to reduce the reliance of the housing finance system on scarce
government funds and to introduce new instruments for resource
mobilization;
(b) to expand access to housing finance for low and middle income
households;
(c) to reduce overall subsidies and target remaining subsidies to the
lower income groups who are able to qualify for home ownership;
(d)  .o stimulate the production of more low-cost housing by eliminating
inefficient regulatory controls and by encouraging full
participation by both public and private developers on a non-
discriminary basis;
(e) to generate employment at low foreign exchange cost; and
(f) to strengthen the key institutions in the housing sector which play
a direct or major role in the supply and mortgage financing of low
cost units, namely Bank Tabungan Negara (BTN) and Perum Perumnas
(The National Urban Development Corporation).
3.        The mortgage financing program for the remaining three years of
Repelita IV establishes quantitative targets for each unit type. These
quantitative targets are contained in the Surat Keputusan No. 08/KPTS/1985 and
specify that a 70:30 ratio will be applied, whereby 70% of the units financed



- 78 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2
by Bank Tabungan Negara should be unit types D36 or smaller, and that the
remaining 30% of the program may be larger than the unit type D36. The
financing program has since been modified by the Government to reduce unit
types larger than D36. In addition, to ensure sufficient viability in project
proposals over the three year program, the number of D45 and D54 unit types to
be financed by Bank Tabungan Negara in 1986-87 will be limited to one-third
(1/3) of the 3 year totals for these unit types.
4.        Both Perum Perumnas and Bank Tabungan Negara have supervisory boards
(Dewan trngawas) which meet on a regular basis to review agency performance.
These suji.rvisory boards will continue to fulfill their duties and
responsioilities. However, to monitor program implementation and further
develop National Housing Policies, both in the short term and for Pelita V and
beyond, a Coordinating Committee, chaired by the State Minister for Housing
will be established. The Coordinating Committee will be charged with
resolving issues and problems which emerge during the implementation of S.K.
No. 08/KPTS/85. The Coordinating Committee will be commissioned by the State
Minister for Housing and will consist of senior officials from related
ministries, institutions and interest groups.
5.        Recent changes in the Government of Indonesia's housing policies are
based on the recognition of the need for an integrated set of policies which
attack a wide variety of constraints to the supply of affordable housing.
Over the next two year period, the Office of the State Minister for Housing
intends to study the problems associated with input markets, such as land
markets, finance and the supply of infrastructure with particular emphasis on
rationalizing the two principal policy instruments available to the
Government -- subsidies, whether direct or indirect, and regulatory
controls. These studies are expected to provide useful information in
developing national policies and programs for use in Pelita V and the period
beyond. Future objectives therefore will be to further reduce the reliance of
the housing finance system on government funds; to expand access to
homeownership to a broader range of income groups; to target subsidies more
efficiently; and to eliminate regulatory controls which adversely impact the
market for housing. Competition in the mortgage financing market place
remains one other important future objective to be achieved in the relative
near term.



-.       THAILAND   io, 310o                                                                             10                                             3$ --0                                            IBRO 19780
sEnaAchw.~/                                                                                                                               PHIUPPiNES         f
13                  MALAYSIA                                                BRUNEI                      ,/                                                                                           INDONESLA
tEt3 n   .  \\                 \> ' '>'~~~~~~~~~~  ) ~BANK TABUNGAN NEGARA
12                        /                                MALAYSIA  /                                                                                                                     MAN00
-4----SINGAPORE      ,,17                                                                             MOR.00,HADUATM
0e Auwnberu S INGAPORE                    \     ' " t  <    C                                                                                    HALMAHERA                 _._m              8O0
(   9                                      RAIP  K A  L I   A    N
Ped00o      9                                        14                             S.4odo        18                                                         /
a 0                   .25
10 ,    Th1.400t.10                             15                          oP.                                          S         R,LA    OBA
D.lR . JAKARTA      hw!A   A                                               PoIongkor.yo                                  2 _,0        StULAWESItJtpus
3 JAW  TENGA                           0'N                                                                  20j 
2 *AWA BARAT                T_           '                                                                                            21l                                                                     IRA rJAY2A 
i D.l YOGYAKARTA                  8                                                       6IRIAN JAYA 
JAWATIMUR          8019223                                                             16 II/                                            R                            CERAMjj 
a LAMPUNG                                 AK0'd.i                                                                                                             IURV Ab..                                             26
aENGKuLu                               6
e SUMATERASELATAN
10IAUB
tOJAMBI                            TG14sno      1up^- wdo n3 \s
S1 SUMATERA BARAT
12 SUMATERA UTARA                                JAKARTA
KALOMANTAN SARAT
*s KALIMANTAN TENGAH                              oMrn           3            MADURA
KALIMANTAN SELATAN 
ie KAiIMANTAN TIMUR                               2                                                                     A
I SULAWES( TENGAH 21
isOULAVOESIVUTARA                                       oY. .f~fl                   (O/AUj                                         FL00WAREoS
20 SULAWESI SELATAN                                                                                SUZeAWA              A
21 SULAWESI TENOGARA                                             4
23  TENGGARA 8AFtAT                     4f                                                                    "MOR                    0     loo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~¶0    200    300   400   500  0
24o 2NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR                                                                                23
MAL223UMILES
26 IRAN IJAYA                                                                                                                                                                        0  100  200 20 Kup4g0 27  000O700ERS
'27 TIMOR TIMUR                                                                                            SUM0B0A0040                24    KoWp00o,,40 2260   ?0  0
- "1'O  f2..a.  00050  .oosofo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ILOMETERS
1000                   10o                                             110'                    120'           120'                     120'                    33'                     130'                    340'
JUNE l3011



