                Republic of Senegal- Second Transport Sector Project
            ProposedAmendmentto the DevelopmentCredit Agreement


                                I.CONTEXTANDRATIONALE

 A. Project description

 1.     The Project was approved on March 30, 1999 and became effective on December 31,
 1999. The original credit amount was SDR 64.3 million, equivalent to US$95.5 million. The
project objectives are to assist the Borrower to: (a) strengthen institutional capacity, financial
viability and operational efficiency o f the transport sector agencies (Land Transport Department,
Public Works Department, Road Agency, Port Authority o f Dakar, Civil Aviation Department,
and Maritime Transport Department); (b) encourage direct private sector involvement in
investment andmanagement of the sector; (c) stabilize and improve the condition o f the priority
road network, and reduce in the long-run the economic costs o f road maintenance and
rehabilitation in order to enhance regional competitiveness and achieve sectoral financial
sustainability; (d) increase the number of district capitals with access to all-weather roads; and
(e) contribute to poverty reduction.

B. Rationale for the amendment

2.      A restructuringof the Project is neededbecause of the impact of the significant changes
introduced since the beginningo f the project activities.

3.      First, within the context of the political transition o f March 2000, the newly elected
Government introducedthe following changes inthe transport sector's strategy:

        (a) Decision to build a new airport, whenthe project was initially supposed to support the
            management concession o f the existing airport (Leopold Skdar Senghor International
            Airport); and

        (b) Decision to use resources from bonds on the local market for construction o f a third
            berth o f the container terminal in the port, whereas private financing was initially
            foreseen through BuildOperate Transfer (BOT).

4.      Second, the implementation o f Civil Aviation and Land Transport Administration
components has been lagging. Some measures have been under way for one year without being
finalized, thereby preventingachievement o f the components' objectives. During the July 2004
supervision mission, a reallocation o f funds to support these components was recommended,
subject to specific conditions that would have been completed before September 30, 2004, Le.,
(a) the road safety campaign on the most dangerous road in Dakar should have started;
(b) bidding documents for securitization o f the transport system should have been completed;
and (c) the decrees related to setting airport fees and regulation o f air navigation safety should
have beensigned.

                                                - 2 -


 5.     Because the specific conditions above have not been met, the Amendment recommends
 closing the activities o f the port within the Port and Maritime Component, the Civil Aviation
 Component, and the Land Transport Administration Component.

 6.     Third, two new executing agencies (Railway Concessionaire and Road Agency) were
 created, andthere i s a needto take into account the transfer o fresponsibilities to these agencies.

 7.     Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) isjustified based on the need
 to: (a) reallocate funds; (b) take into account the new executing agencies - the Railway
 Concessionaire for the Railway Component and the Road Agency for the Road Maintenance
 Component; (c) close the two Project Agreements with the port authority and the former public
 railway company; (d) close the Port, the Land Transport Administration, and the Civil Aviation
 components; and (e) extend the Credit closing date.

 8.     These changes suggestedinthe proposed Amendment are relevant to the project activities
 and consistent with the project development objectives.

                     rr. PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE

A. Achievementof development objectives

9.      Achievement o f the Project's Development Objectives (PDOs) was downgraded to
unsatisfactory following the September 2003 supervision missionbecause o fprocurement issues,
very slow disbursement, and lack o f progress in implementing adequate measures to fully
achieve the PDOs. However, satisfactory progress was noted during the July 2004 supervision
mission.

10.     Of the project's five development objectives (PDOs), three are now rated satisfactory,
one marginally satisfactory, and only one remains unsatisfactory.


B. Status of implementation

11.     Project implementation i s rated satisfactory. As o f January 23, 2005, SDR 32.86 million
(51%) have been disbursed, and eighty-five percent o f project funds were committed in July
2004, after the signing o f contracts for pavedroadmaintenance andrehabilitation o frural roads.

12.     Progress have been made in road maintenance and management. In particular:
(i)implementation o f the action plan to reorganize the Road Agency has started; (ii)a new
decree clarifying the roles o f the Agency, the Road Council and the Ministry o f Transport was
signed on January 29,2004; and (iii) staff from the private sector have beenappointed.
                                       new

13.     Progress in the execution o f civil works contracts i s satisfactory, but insufficient
resources may prevent the achievement o f the defined targets by the end o f the project. Bank
resources will be insufficient for maintenance o f earthen and paved roads because o f an

 unexpected increase inunit costs due to inflation and the decrease inthe SDR's exchange rate to
 the FCFA and the EURO.

 C. Fiduciary aspects

  14.    The project's overall financial management improved significantly from 2002 to 2004.
 All audit reports have been transmitted in time. The opinion o f the auditors on the special
 account and the statements o f expenditure review i s unqualified. As a result of significant
 measures to improve the fiduciary management o f AATR, the opinion o f the auditor on the
 financial statements o f the Agence Autonome des TravauxRoutiers (AATR) the first halfo f2004
 i s unqualified after being qualified in 2002 and 2003 for lack o f compliance with national
 procurement regulations.

 15.     The Procurement review undertakenduring the July 2004 supervision mission recorded
 significant improvementsinterms of compliance and timeliness.

 D. Safeguards policies

 16.     Compliance with safeguard policies and legal covenants i s satisfactory.

 17.    A resettlement framework and aresettlement action planare beingcompleted. A study on
 the social and environmental impacts o f the railway concession has been carried out and
 approved by both the Governments o f Mali and Senegal. Environmental aspects are
 systematically included in the detailed engineering studies o f road works. Technical assistance,
 which is providing support to the environmental expert in the Coordination Unit, includes the
 finalization o f the permanent environmental structure in the Ministry of Transport and the
 formulation o f sectoral guidelines to integrate environmental and social concerns in the design
and implementation o f the project. With Bank support, the Coordination Unit and the Road
Agency co-sponsored a workshop on safeguards and transport in December 2004. The
workshop's aim was to strengthen the role o f the Environmental Management Units, to better
mainstream environmental and social issues andimplementEnvironmentalManagement Plans.

E. Legal covenants

 18.    O f the 39 legal covenants in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), 11 have not
been complied with. These concern the now-defunct Socie`te` Nationale des Chemins de Fer du
Sbdgal (SNCS, former public railway company) and do not impact the project's overall
development objectives because o f the October 2003's privatization o f railway operations. The
port authority i s not incompliance with the legal covenant relatedto the ratio o fpersonnel versus
operating expenditures. As a result o f the Amendment, legal covenants related to SNCS and the
port will be canceled.

19.     The one legal covenant that will remain unsatisfactory i s related to provision o f
information about the transport budget and expenditures. This i s a generic issue that the
Government has not addressed since the project started. Because the Government does not
provide this informationto the Bank, the amendment proposes to convert this legal covenant into

                                                - 4 -


a new one related to publishing the Annual Road Maintenance Plan. This will improve
transparency and strengthenpublic ownership.

                                111. PROPOSEDAMENDMENT

20.    The objectives o fthe Amendment are:

       (a) to close (9 the activities of theport within the Port and Maritime Component; (ii) the
       Civil Aviation Component; and (iii) the Land TransportAdministration Component;

       0   The proposalto close the port part o f the Maritime and Port Component is due to the
           Government's decision to use public financing for the construction o f the third berth
           o f the container terminal inthe port; private financing was initially foreseen through
          BOT.

       0  Initially, the project was to support the concession o f the management o f the existing
          airport (Leopold SCdar Senghor International Airport). However, the Government's
          decision to build a new airport affects the Airport and Civil Aviation Component, for
          which this memorandum recommends cancellation o f the project funds.

      0   Similarly, it i s proposed to cancel hnds allocated to the Land Transport
          Administration Component because its implementationhas been lagging.

      (b) to revise theperformance indicators;

      0   The number o f indicators to measure project outcomes and outputs i s reduced from
          about 34 to 24. Twenty-four indicators remainhigh, yet they reflect the complexity o f
          the project, which covers all sub-sectors o f the transport sector. The new indicators
          are listed inSchedule 6 o f the Amendment.

      (c) to reallocate the proceeds of the credit to cover overruns on the Road Maintenance,
      Railway and Rural Transport components. The reallocation of funds isJive percent over
      the original Credit amount;

      0   The Government requested the reallocation of funds in a letter dated June 22, 2004.
          The revised table of Schedule 1 presents the details o f the reallocation, which is
         justified for the following purposes: (i)Government decision on new arrangements
                                                     a
          for port and airport activities makes Credit resources available for other project
          activities, other thanthose plannedinitially to finance redundancies resulting from the
          concession o f the Dakar airport (Category 4.B o f Schedule 1o fthe DCA) and to build
          a third berth for the container terminal in the port o f Dakar (Category l.A), and
          (ii) additional funds are to be allocated to rural transport, paved roads maintenance,
          andto redundancies for stafflaidofffrom the public railway company.

                                                  - 5 -


         (d) to reflect the changes in the executing agencies;

             A new Road Agency and a new authority for airport security were created under the
             project. The Department o f Public Works was restructured. Railway services were
             concessioned to Transrail, a private operator. The Civil Aviation Agency was also
             created, but i s not yet operational. Those initiatives changed the institutional
             framework in the Road Maintenance, Civil Aviation and Railway components o f the
             project.

        0    The concession o f railway services between Dakar and Bamako was awarded to a
             private operator in February 2003 and became effective in October 2003. The
             concessionaire becomes the executing agency o f Parts E.3, E.5 and E.6 o f the project.
             Resources reallocated to the Railway Component will be on-lent to the railway
             concessionaire for an amount equal to SDR 6.3 million and will allow for retroactive
             financing o f expenditures incurred by the concessionaire during a six-month period
             prior to the effectiveness o f this Amendment.

             Regarding the Road Agency, the Amendment regularizes a situation where the
             Agency has actually implemented the Road Maintenance Component since its
             creation.

        (e) to cancel the two Project Agreements with the port authority and theformer public
        railway company; and

        #,Iextendtheclosingdateof theCredit.
             to

             The Closing Date of the Credit is June 30, 2005. The Government has submitted a
             request dated October 15, 2004 to extend the Closing Date until June 30, 2006
             because o f the 18-month execution period of paved road maintenance contracts i s not
             expected to be completed before that date.

                               IV. COSTS, BENEFITSAND RISKS

21.     The new indicators are measurable and have targeted values. This was not the case for
several o f the indicators defined at appraisal.

22.     The reallocation o f funds will cover the overrun on the contracts for periodic
maintenance o f paved roads and construction o f two bridges. Regarding the rural component,
this will allow all-weather accessto 50 rural communities that receive support from the National
Rural Infrastructure Project (Cr. 3315-SE), financed by the Bank to improve rural roads usedby
these communities. This will maximize the impact of both projects, which would have been
limitedto 16 rural communities in the initial project. Resources will be insufficient to carry out
all the works initially envisaged; as a result, achievement o f the development objective related to
road condition improvement could only be marginally satisfactory if additional resources were
not made available.

                                                 - 6 -


23.      As for the Railway Component, the proposed Amendment will allow for the financing of
expenditures incurred during the six-month period preceding the date o f the Amendment. It will
also give the concessionaire the option to use its ownprocurement procedures inaccordance with
Clause 3.13 o f the guidelines for procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits. This will
impact on railway operations and improve disbursementratios.

24.      To date, positive achievements have been recorded during implementation, such as
(i) concession o f the railway, (ii)creation o f the Dakar Airport Security Agency, and
(iii) oftheRoadAgency.TheRoadAgencyismorecapablethantheformerDepartment
     creation
o f Public Works. The airport security authority also gained more capacity following the training
program carried out to build staff skills incivil aviation safety and airport security.

25.      Although serious issues identified at the start o f the project have been progressively
resolved, a risk remains on the road maintenance institutional side. The risk i s a misuse o f the
Government's resources (a large share o f road fund resources have been reallocated to
emergency works and many contracts were awarded without competition). This issue is being
addressed with the restructuring o f the Road Agency and the level o f funding o f road
maintenance. Currently, the level o f funding has to be better adjusted to actual needs. The
sustainability o fthe restructured agencies also remains fragile.

26.     As resources are insufficient to cover all the road maintenance and rehabilitation
activities, improvement o fthe roadnetwork conditions will be partially achieved for both earthen
and pavedroads. Reduced transport costs and access to all products for the rural poor will be less
than expected.

27.     As for the Port Component and the Civil Aviation Component, because the Government
changed its strategy inthese subsectors, the benefits o f strengthening private sector participation
inservice deliverywillbelost.

28.     For the components that will be closed, the amount allocated reflects the funds already
committed. Components andrelated costs will change as follows:

        The Land Transport Administration Component amount has been reduced from SDR
        3,086 to SDR 982;
        The Civil Aviation Component amount hasbeenreduced from SDR 8,066 to SDR2,362;
        The Maritime Transport Component amount has been reduced from SDR 4,429 to
        SDR 367;
        The Railway Component amount hasbeenreduced from SDR 14,260 to SDR 13,855;
        The Rural Transport Component amount has been increased from SDR 2,329 to
        SDR 9,733;
        The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Component amount has been increased from
        SDR27,435 to SDR 30,472; and
        Operating costs for the Project Coordination Unit have been increased from 2,715 to
        SDR2,827.

