Report No. PID6349
Project Name                      Senegal-Second Transport Sector
Program (TSP II)
Region                            Africa
Sector                            Transport
Project ID                        SNPE2366
Borrower                          Government of Senegal
Implementing Agencies             Oversight: Ministry of the Economy,
Finance and Planning (MEFP) in
collaboration with Ministry of Equipment
and Land Transport
(MELT), Ministry of Tourism and Air
Transport (MTTA), Ministry of Fisheries
and Maritime Transport (MPMT).
Day-to-day Coordination: Project Coordination
Unit (CELCO)
Tel:     (221) 825. 73. 55
Fax:     (221) 825. 80. 61
Execution of Components: Department of Public
Works (DTP--MELT); Department of
Land Transport (DTT); National Railway
Company (SNCS); Port of Dakar (SONAPAD);
Department of Merchant Marine (DMM);
ASECNA-Senegal; SONATRA (Air Senegal);
Professional Training Center (CFP);
Road Research and Quality Control
Laboratory (CEREEQ); State Portfolio
Management Unit (CGCPE-MEFP); CELCO
in collaboration with others (rural
transport component)
Date PID Prepared                 April 22, 1998
Projected Appraisal               October 1, 1998
Projected Board Date              February 28, 1998
Country Background
1       Senegal has a population of approximately 8 million, of which 41% lives
in the urban areas. The population growth rate is approximately 2. 7% per
annum. During the period 1989-1993 GDP growth rate was 1.7%. At end 1993
however, economic growth was a negative 2.1% and internal and external arrears
reached 221 billion CFA Franc. In the urban areas the standard of living has
deteriorated. The incidence of poverty continues to be high in the rural
areas. Poor economic performance was mainly due to: inappropriate policies
undertaken by the Government which placed excessive regulation on the private
sector; insufficient internal adjustment measures undertaken; and the
overvaluation of the exchange rate of the CFA Franc.



2       In addition to the devaluation of the CFA Franc in January 1994, the
Government of Senegal (GOS) has taken steps to improve the economy and enhance
the activities of the private sector through structural and institutional
reforms. In 1994, following an initial phase in which the private sector
adopted a cautious attitude, primary sector production and export oriented
activities started increasing significantly. There was much renewed tourist
activity in the Casamance and elsewhere. Structural reforms have covered
price and trade liberalization, labor and regulatory legislation, public
enterprise reform, the public administration, agriculture, energy, transport,
social sectors and the environment. As a result, in 1995 the economy grew at
4.89 in real terms, in 1996 at 5.6 9, and in 1997 growth was about 4.7%.
Sector background
3       The transport sector plays a strategic role in the economy of Senegal.
It accounts for approximately 10% of GDP and generates a significant share of
the total budgetary revenues of the State. As a center of French colonial
administration in the 1950's and following independence in 1960, Senegal and
in particular its capital Dakar, acquired a relatively good infrastructure
base. At independence in 1960, there were approximately 765 km of paved roads
and in 1972 1186 km of railroad. Economic crisis and decline over the 1970's
and early 1980's led to deterioration in the infrastructure network and
operations together with the inability to expand services to a larger segment
of the population.
4       Following the neglect of infrastructure in the 1970s and 1980s, GOS
initiated in the late 1980s a wide range of new approaches to develop and
improve the infrastructure network and operations. Private participation was
considered and contracting out services, road maintenance and the concession
approach to infrastructure management began to come to the forefront. In 1990
the Government adopted a General Policy Letter for the Transport Sector (LSP1)
which outlined policies and a medium-term action plan for the sector. The
overriding objectives was to improve the efficiency of the sector, reduce its
operating costs and make it more competitive. As such it aimed at reforming
the policies and modernizing the management of the sector. To support
implementation of LSP1, the Transport Sector Adjustment Program (PAST) was
prepared with the assistance of the Bank and several donors. With support
under the PAST most of the above goals have been addressed with varying
degrees of completeness and success given the difficult circumstances
prevailing during the earlier stages of execution of the program. The proposed
TSPII in support of which a new Letter of Sector Policy (LSP2) is in
preparation will pursue reforms and consolidate past efforts
Sector Strategy
5       In its recently adopted Ninth Economic and Social Development Plan, the
Government of Senegal reiterated the fact that efficient management,
maintenance and development of the infrastructure sectors and particularly of
the transport sector are a crucial variable for Senegal's future development
including poverty alleviation and increased competitiveness. In line with
this and in order to review the issues in a more in-depth and structured
fashion a joint Bank-Government Medium Term Strategy Paper for the Transport
Sector (MTSTS) was issued in June 1997. The MTSTS, drawing from the lessons
learned under the PAST, suggested an agenda and strategy for further reform
and improvements in the sector.
-2-



6       The draft LSP2 drawing heavily from the MTSTS, and developed through
extensive stakeholder consultation, outlines the principles underlying
Government's policies and proposed reforms and regulatory interventions in the
sector. It calls for: (i) adapting transport infrastructure to the needs of
economic growth and of regional integration; (ii) strengthening sector
institutions and administration so as to improve their capacity to perform the
essential functions of planning, coordination, regulation, and supervision;
(iii) extensive stakeholder involvement in the decision-making process
regarding the development of the sector; (iv) adoption of a regulatory and
fiscal framework designed to induce competition and promote as much as
possible private participation in the development and management of the
sector; (iv) giving particular attention to the development of rural transport
and to the environmental and social sustainability of sector development. In
line with the above principles a detailed list of objectives and plans of
action back up the LSP2. The proposed TSP II is consistent with and will
support the attainment of the objectives and implementation of the plans of
actions.
Project Objective
7       The Development Objective of the TSP II is to obtain a sustainable
improvement in the supply and performance of the transport infrastructure to
help improve economic growth and access. This objective will be pursued by
supporting further institutional reforms in the sector and, at the same time,
removing its major structural constraints, thus consolidating and building on
the achievements of the previous TSAP. Also, the project is consistent with
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on January 29,
1998 (Report No. 17269-SE of 12/29/97). The overarching objective of the CAS
is to reduce the incidence of poverty and to create gainful employment
opportunities based on a two-pronged approach: (i) support to policies and
programs aimed at more rapid and sustained growth; and (ii) ensuring social
sustainability. The improved supply and performance of the transport
infrastructure, including in rural areas, will support the CAS mainly in two
ways: it will contribute to increase Senegal's competitiveness in foreign
trade and promote linkages in domestic markets - crucial factors for rapid and
sustained growth; and it will improve the degree and decrease the cost of
access by the poor to social services & markets/economic opportunities.
Project Description
8       In order to achieve the above mentioned objective the Program addresses
on the one hand institutional problems sector-wide through its capacity-
building and reform implementation features. On the other hand it supports a
priority program of rehabilitation and maintenance operations, as well as
selected performance-enhancing new investments. The program will: (i)
strengthen the Government's capacity to perform the essential functions of
planning, coordination, regulation and supervision; (ii) continue
restructuring of sector parastatals and promotion of private participation in
the development and management of the sector; (iii) continue rehabilitation
and improvement of transport infrastructure encompassing all modes; (iv)
support necessary measures to make road maintenance more efficient and
financially sustainable; (v) define a strategy and support an emergency
program for the provision and maintenance of rural roads, an area where no
coherent policy exists at the moment; (vi) ensure the environmental and social
sustainability of the sector development.
- 3-



9       The operations to be included in the investment components will respect a
minimum rate of return criterion of 12 percent, be essential to maintain
requisite safety standards for transport services, be least-cost solutions or
demonstrate significant support for poverty alleviation and regional
integration objectives. The investment program for the different subsectors
include the following actions:
a) Sector Institutional and Policy Development: strengthening of the planning
and coordination capacity in the relevant administration; building of a
reliable data base on the status of the transport infrastructure; assistance
to the modernization of the transport support and management in its
supervision and regulatory role; building capacity in the sector to
participate and follow up on project finance schemes for private sector
financing of investments; and update of the Memento des Transports including
an assessment of opportunity for updating the National Transport Plan;
b) Land Transport Administration: a significant source of revenue for the
Government, land transport administration and management will be provided
modern equipment for efficient management of vehicle registration, licensing,
inspections and road safety;
c) Transparent and Sustainable Public Finanacing in Road Subsector:
restructuring of the Road Fund including putting in place systems for greater
accountability . Appointment of Advisory and Review Board.
d) Promotion of Further Private Sector Involvement in the Sector:
e) Road Maintenance, Rehabilitation and Construction: maintenance and
rehabilitation of roads on the basis of a three-year rolling program;
selective construction of new roads possibly in partnership with the private
sector; restructuring of the management of Road Fund including a redefinition
and streamlining of the Fund's replenishment and management procedures;
restructuring of the Road Research and Quality Control Center (CEREEQ) and of
the Professional Training Center for Road Maintenance Managers (CFP);
f) Railways: rehabilitation of the Tambacounda-Kidira rail line;
rehabilitation or replacement of many key assets in state of advanced despair;
supply of a new communication system for train operations; assistance to the
finalization of the privatization of the management of the Dakar/Bamako
railway axis;
g) Ports/Maritime transport: investments to improve both the capacity and the
performance of the container terminal in Dakar; support to the private sector
participation in the development and operation of passenger and freight lines
for domestic shipping; development of river transport;
h) Civil Aviation: support further improvements of the national companies in
the sub-sector (Airport Management Company, Airline etc. . ) in terms of their
financial performance and operational autonomy, so as to finalize their
privatization process; upgrading of the runaway and the parking and storage
facilities in Dakar airport; assistance to improve safety at secondary
airports;
i) Rural Transport: definition of a rural transport strategy; contribution to
the feeder roads component of the national rural infrastructure program
- 4 -



Project Cost and Financing
10      The program would represent a five year time slice of public investments
in the sector. The cost of the program is currently estimated at CFAF 405
billion (about USD 675 million). The local contribution is expected to be in
the order of 20% of total project cost. IDA, in close coordination with other
donors will finance a significant portion of these programs. The following
donors/financiers have expressed interest in co-financing the program: the
European Union (EU) through the FED, the Caisse Francaise de Developpement
(CFD); the African Development Bank (ADB); the West African Development Bank
(BOAD); the Nordic Development Fund. A joint pre-appraisal mission will be
undertaken by co-financiers in June 1998, following which the contributions
would be confirmed. Appraisal of the program will take place in October 1998.
Project Implementation
11      The MEFP is expected to, in collaboration with the MELT, MTTA, MFMT,
provide oversight and guidance for the program. Day-to-day coordination and
follow-up of the entire project will be the responsibility of the project
coordination unit (CELCO) which was set up under the TSAP and reporting to the
MELT and will be restructured to better respond to a changed context. One
issue to be decided by GOS is that of the institutional attachment of CELCO.
The road works component will be executed by DTP. An Advisory, Review and
Consultative Committee complete with a secretariat and key accounting and
management staff will be set up to monitor, review and advise on the
management and execution of the Road Fund. During project implementation,
performance of the Road Fund will be closely monitored and modifications will
be introduced as necessary. DTT will execute the land transport
administration component. SNCS will execute the railway component, PAD will be
responsible for port of Dakar activities, DMM will execute the river transport
and secondary ports activities, The MTTA (DAC) and ASECNA-Senegal with
support from its parent company ASECNA will implement part of the civil
aviation component while the other will be implemented by MTTA, SONATRA Air
Senegal and CGCPE-MEFP. Implementation of privatization activities will be
undertaken in close consultation with, and sometimes led by, the Unit for the
Management and Control of the State Portfolio at MEFP (CGCPE). The CELCO
will, with the advice of an inter-agency steering committee, undertake direct
responsibility for the rural transport component
Project Sustainability
12      Government has clearly demonstrated its commitment to the sector as
evidenced by its allocation of about 20% of its overall investment budget to
the road sub-sector in the past years and by the reforms already undertaken
for the parastatals (railways and port) under the on-going project. The need
and justification for adequate and sustained investments in infrastructure is
well understood. To further strengthen the chances for sustainability, the
project will ensure the following: (i) stable, reliable financing for road
maintenance and their timely disbursements of funds; (ii) restructuring of
management of the road fund; (iii) efficient system for road maintenance; (iv)
effective capacity building; and (v) continued improvements in regulatory and
operating environment for sector enterprises.
Lessons learned from past operations in the Country/Sector
- 5 -



13      Prior to the on-going TSAP, the Bank had financed eleven transport
operations in Senegal including five road, three port and three railway
projects, in addition to financing of rural roads under agricultural projects.
These projects had all tried, with disappointing results, to introduce reforms
in the transport subsectors. Nevertheless, the more recent of these projects
which have been completed (Third Railway Project--Credit 1518-SE; Third Port
Project--Credit 1459-SE), the on-going TSAP and the June 1997 joint Bank-
Government strategy paper have provided the opportunity to establish a frank
dialogue with the government on major shortcomings in the transport sector and
the agenda to be addressed. Special importance has been given to the need to
consolidate policy and institutional reform measures and to define/adopt new
ones in light of a rapidly changing world. The TSP II will address directly
and upfront the financial and institutional constraints to sustained
improvement in the performance of the sector.
Poverty Category
14      The project will directly address poverty through reducing transport
costs and improving accessibility of isolated areas with agricultural
potential so as to enhance production and to link more efficiently producers
to markets. Moreover, promotion of local small and medium enterprises and the
use of labor-based methods should have a positive impact on employment of
unskilled workers.
Environmental Aspects
15      Environmental category: B.   No major environmental issues are expected
since proposed activities to be financed under the project concern mainly
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure plus some extension of the rural
roads network as needed to support agricultural development. Nevertheless,
certain investment activities will be undertaken only in line with a framework
for social and environmental sustainability of policies and works in the
sector.   This framework will be contained in environmental guidelines being
prepared. In effect, project preparation includes the development of
"Environmental Guidelines" including appropriate methodologies for
environmental impact assessments and norms for the execution of works and
operations of transport equipment. Consideration is also being given to the
establishment of a unit for the evaluation of environmental and social impact.
The project will support this action if it is decided upon.
Program Objective Categories
16      The primary program objective category is environmentally sustainable
development. Secondary program objectives are private sector development,
public sector management and poverty reduction.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
- 6 -



Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 8, 1998.
-7 -



