Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 3183 
–
SE 
 
Agreement Providing for  
Amendment and Restatement  
of the Development Credit Agreement
 
(Second Transport Sector Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 10, 2005
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3183 
–
SE
 
AGREEMENT PROVIDING FOR  
AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF 
THE DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 10, 2005,
 
between  REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Association have agreed to amend the 
Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association dated May 
13, 1999 (hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) in the manner 
hereinafter set forth; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
 
Section 1.01. The Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended and 
restated so as to read as set forth in the Annex hereto. 
 
Section 1.02. This Agreement shall become effective as of March 10, 
2005 upon (a) signature by both parties; and (b) receipt by the Association an opinion or 
opinions, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, of counsels 
acceptable to the Association, showing that the TRANSRAIL Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf of the Borrower and TRANSRAIL, and is legally binding upon the Borrower 
and TRANSRAIL in accordance with its terms. 
Section 1.03.  It is to be noted, for the record, that Section 6.01 of the Development 
Credit Agreement was amended, for the sake of clarity and consistency, to eliminate 
additional conditions to effectiveness related to activities which were dropped from the 
Project.  
Page  3
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Dakar, Republic of Senegal, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
By            
 
/s/ Abdoulaye Diop 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By                                                     /s/ Madani M. Tall 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  4
ANNEX
To the Agreement 
providing for the 
amendment and 
Restatement of the 
Development Credit 
Agreement 
dated May 13, 1999 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3183-SE
 
Amended and Restated
 
Development Credit Agreement
 
(Second Transport Sector Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
Dated May 13, 1999 
 
As amended and Restated on March 10, 2005 
 
Page  5
CREDIT NUMBER 3183-SE 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT  
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 13, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated January 13, 1999, 
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the Borrower's transport sector (the Program), and declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower intends to obtain from the African Development Bank, the 
French Ministry of Cooperation, the Agence Française de Développement, the European 
Union, the Islamic Development Bank, the Western African Development Bank, the 
Nordic Development Fund, the OPEC Fund, the Kuwait Fund and the Saudi Fund 
(collectively Donors), loans and grants, as the case may be, in an aggregate amount 
approximately equivalent to three hundred and twenty eight million Dollars, during the 
period 1999-2004, to assist in financing the Program on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the respective loan and grant agreements (the Cofinancing Agreements) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and each of the Donors; 
 
(C) 
Part E of the Project will be carried out by TRANSRAIL with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to 
TRANSRAIL part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;  
 
(D) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms part of the 
Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and  
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  6
(a) 
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered 
as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
 
“12 
“Participating Country” means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and 'Participating 
Countries' means, collectively, all such countries.” 
 
(b) 
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a Participating Country or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.” 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:  
 
(a) 
“AANS/ASECNA” means Administration des Activités Aéronautiques du 
Sénégal, the Borrower's agency responsible for Air Navigation Safety operations in 
Senegal, under Article 10 of the Convention de Dakar, dated October 25, 1974; 
(b) “AATR”
 
means the Borrower’s 
Agence autonome des Travaux routiers
 
established and operating purusant to 
Décret 
No 2000.686 du 3 août 2000, as amended by 
Decret
 No 2004.104 du 6 février 2004);“AIR SENEGAL Implementation Agreement” 
means the agreement to be entered into by the Borrower and AIR SENEGAL in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement;  
(c) 
“AIR SENEGAL » means the Société Nationale de Transport Aérien 
(SONATRA SENEGAL);  
(d) 
“ASECNA Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into by the Borrower and ASECNA SENEGAL in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement;  
(e) 
“AWPB” means the annual work program and budget prepared by the 
Borrower for the purposes of the Project pursuant to paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;  
Page  7
(f) 
“CARCHEM”means the Borrower’s Cellule d’Assistance à la Réinsertion 
des Cheminots established and operating under the laws of the Borrower. 
(g) 
“CELCO” means the Project Coordination Unit, established by the 
Borrower under the Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Credit (Credit No. 2266-SE);  
(h) 
“DAC” means the Borrower's Department of Civil Aviation;  
(i) 
“DMM” means the Borrower's Department of Marine;  
(j) 
“DMN” the Borrower's Department of Meteorology;  
(k) 
“DTP” means the Directorate of Public Works within METT;  
(l) 
“DTT” means the Directorate of Land Transport within METT (as 
hereinafter defined);  
(m) 
“EREEQ” means the Borrower's Center for Road Research and Quality 
Control;  
(n) 
“ESI” means the environmental and social impact assessment, carried out 
by the Borrower in December 1998;  
(o) 
“First Project Year” means the twelve-month period beginning from the 
Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter, and "Project Year" or "PY" means any 
twelve-month period beginning at the end of the First Project Year or the end of any 
subsequent Project Years;  
(p) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” mean the Borrower's fiscal year which start on 
January 1 and ends on December 31 of every calendar year; 
(q) 
“Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine” and “CFAF” mean the 
currency of the Borrower;  
(r) 
“HAALSS” means the Borrower’s 
Haute autorité de l’Aéroport 
international Léopold Sédar Senghor -Leopold Sedar
 established and operating pursuant to 
Décret 
No 2001-743 du 1
er
 octobre 2001; 
(s) 
“Implementing Agency” means collectively MEF, MEM, MIETTTMI, 
PAD and TRANSRAIL (as hereinafter defined) and ASECNA;  
(t) 
“Initial Deposit” means the deposit referred to in Section 3.05 (iii) of this 
Agreement;  
(u) 
“LSS Airport” means the Leopold Sedar Senghor Airport at Dakar;  
Page  8
(v) 
“MEF” means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Finance;  
(w) 
“MEM” means the Borrower's Ministry of Maritime Economy;  
(x) 
“MIETTTMI” means the Borrower's Ministry of Infrastructure, Equipment 
and Land Transport, and Inland Maritime Transport;  
(y) 
“MTTA” means the Borrower's Ministry of Tourism and Air Transport;  
(z) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators referred to in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement;  
(aa) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement;  
(bb) 
“Project Execution Manual” means the manual to be adopted by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement containing, inter alia, work-plans, 
training plans, and procedures to be used for the purpose of implementation of the Project, 
as they may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Association and such 
term includes any schedules to the Project Execution Manual;  
(cc) 
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(dd) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
November 7, 1997 and November 25, 1997, and October 7, 1998 and October 22, 1998 
respectively, between the Borrower and the Association;  
(ee) 
“RFARB” means the Road Fund Advisory and Review Board, established 
by the Borrower pursuant to the Borrower's arrêté interministériel, dated January 29,1999;  
(ff) 
“Road Fund” means the fund established by the Borrower, and referred to 
in Part B of the Project;  
(gg) 
“Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program” or the acronym "RMRP" 
means the road maintenance and rehabilitation program prepared by the Borrower under 
Part D of the Project; 
(hh) 
“Road Works Agency” means the agency referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of 
this Agreement; 
(ii) 
“SETI” means the Société pour l'Exploitation du Traffic Ferroviaire 
International, a joint-stock company with majority held by private shareholders, to be 
created by the Borrower, to operate international rail transport services on the Dakar-
Bamako corridor;  
Page  9
(jj) 
“SNCS” means the Société Nationale de Chemins de Fer du Sénégal, a 
société nationale, established under the laws of the Borrower;  and 
(kk) 
“SONAPAD” means the Société Nationale du Port Autonome de Dakar, a 
société nationale, established under the laws of Borrower;  
(ll) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
(mm)  “Technical Secretariat” means the technical secretariat of the RFARB 
referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(nn) 
“TRANSRAIL Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and TRANSRAIL pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and 
(oo) 
“TRANSRAIL” means the TRANSRAIL, a joint stock company 
established and operating under the laws of the Republic of Mali. 
 
ARTICLE II  
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty-four million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 64,300,000).  
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
Page  10
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.  
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date.  
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall 
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate 
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as 
may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of 
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions 
of that Section.  
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.  
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on September 15 and March 15 in each year.  
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
September 15 and March 15 commencing September 15, 2009 and ending March 15, 
2039. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2019 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Page  11
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above 
falling six months or more after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower 
that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.  
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.  
 
ARTICLE III  
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement, shall:  
 
(i) 
carry out Parts A, B, C, D, F, H, I and J of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental, social and engineering 
practices and in accordance with such technical norms as shall be 
acceptable to the Association;  
 
(ii) 
cause TRANSRAIL to (A) carry out Part  E of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental, social and engineering 
practices and in accordance with such technical norms as shall be 
Page  12
acceptable to the Association;  and  (B) perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the TRANSRAIL Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement all the obligations of TRANSRAIL therein set forth, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance; and  
 
(iii) 
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make available to TRANSRAIL part of the proceeds 
of the Credit for Part E of the Project, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and TRANSRAIL, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association and which shall include that: (i) the proceeds of 
the Credit withdrawn from Categories 1 (b), 2 (a) and 3 (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 be onlent with a repayment period of 20 years including a grace period of 4 
years and an interest rate of 7.25% per annum; (ii) the proceeds withdrawn from 
Category 4 (a) be made available as a grant; (iii) the costs of fluctuations in the currencies 
on-lent to be borne equally by the Borrower and TRANSRAIL; (iv) TRANSRAIL shall 
at all times maintain a financial management system satisfactory to the Association; (v) 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, works and 
consultants services for Part E of the Project shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.   
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the TRANSRAIL Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
TRANSRAIL Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or any provision thereof. 
 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Parts A, B, C, D, F, H, I and J of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
Page  13
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan 
for the future operation of the Project; and  
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part E of the Project 
shall be carried out by TRANSRAIL . 
 
Section 3.05. Without limitation on the provisions of Section 3.01, the Borrower 
shall for the purpose of 
Part D
 of the Project: (i) open and maintain until the completion 
of the Project, an account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; (ii) deposit into 
the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to FCFA 3 billion (the Initial Deposit); 
(iii) thereafter annually deposit into the Project Account an amount equivalent to the 
Initial Deposit or any other amount required for further implementation of 
Part D
 of the 
Project as agreed between the Borrower and the Association; and (iv) ensure that the 
amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used exclusively for the purposes of 
defraying the cost of expenditures incurred for the execution of 
Part D
 of the Project, and 
not otherwise financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.  
 
ARTICLE IV  
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and  
Page  14
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;  
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;  
 
(iii) 
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and  
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to 
the Association, each of which:  
 
(i) 
(A) 
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and  
 
(B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
Page  15
the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;  
 
(ii) 
(A) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and  
 
(B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.  
 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.  
 
ARTICLE V  
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
 
(a) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; 
 
(b) 
(i) 
 Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:  
 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of 
any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or  
 
(B) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof. 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:  
 
Page  16
(A)  such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and  
 
(B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.  
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in 
paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso 
of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.  
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General 
Conditions:  
 
(a) 
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and deposited therein the 
amount of the Initial Deposit; 
 
(b) 
the Borrower has established a financial accounting and management 
system acceptable to the Association, and has appointed, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, an auditor for purposes of 
Article 4 to this Agreement;  
 
(c) 
the Borrower has furnished to the Association the draft report detailing 
the time table and action plan for the establishment of the Road Works Agency, in form 
and substance acceptable to the Association;  
 
(d) 
the Borrower has adopted the Project Execution Manual, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association; and  
 
(e) 
the TRANSRAIL Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and  TRANSRAIL respectively.  
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association:  
 
Page  17
(b) 
that the TRANSRAIL Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and TRANSRAIL respectively and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and TRANSRAIL in accordance with its terms.  
 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning 
B.P. 4017 
Rue René 
Dakar, Senegal 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  18
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
By  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  19
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) Civil Works  
34,091,000 
100% of foreign expenditures  
and 85 % of local expenditures  
(2) Goods and Equipment  
 
(a)  Under Part E of the 
Project 
(i) Part E 3 
(ii) Parts E.5 and E.6  
(iii) Other 
 
1,093,000 
5,140,000 
1,898,000 
100% of foreign expenditures  
and 85 % of local expenditures 
(3) Consultants’ Services, 
Training and Audit 
 
(a)  Under Part B 
(b)  Under Part E 
(c) Other 
 
4,000 
1,802,000 
10,732,000 
100% 
(4) (a) Severance Payments for 
redundant SNCS staff 
5,670,000 100% 
(5) Incremental Operating Costs 
1,015,000 
95% 
(6) Refunding of Project 
Preparation Advance 
1,400,000 
Amount due pursuant to  
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement 
(7) Unallocated 
1,455,000 
 
Page  20
TOTAL
 
64,300,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, 
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
 
(c) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, vehicle operation, office rental, utilities, travel and supervision costs but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service; and 
 
(d) 
the term "severance payments" means payments made by AANS and 
TRANSRAIL, under Parts E.7, E.8 and F.7 of the Project, respectively, to their 
employees separated pursuant to the action plans, satisfactory to the Association, 
approved by the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) in respect of payments made against Categories 1 through 5, unless the 
AWPB has been approved in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions paragraph 4 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (c) in respect of payments made for expenditures 
for goods and services supplied under a contract which any national or international 
financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under any other credit or grant. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (ii) services of consulting firms under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (iii) services of individual consultants 
under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  21
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (a) strengthen 
institutional capacity, financial viability and operational efficiency of the agencies of the 
transport sector; (b) encourage more direct private sector involvement in investment and 
management of the transport sector; (c) reduce poverty; (d) stabilize and improve the 
condition of its priority road network, reduce the long-run economic costs for road 
maintenance and rehabilitation in order to enhance economic competitiveness and attain 
sectoral financial sustainability; and (e) increase the number of district capitals with 
access to all-weather roads. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof, 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Land Transport Administration Modernization & Planning
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance for the reform 
and modernization of testing systems for driver's licenses, computerization of the Land 
Transport Directorate (DTT) and for road safety campaigns, studies and training of DTT 
staff.  
 
2. 
Acquisition of goods and materials including technical documents, furniture for 
regional offices and equipment.  
 
3. 
Physical improvements of DTT including construction and rehabilitation of the 
regional division of DTT, construction of tracks for road safety education, driving license 
testing and inspection yards. 
 
Part B
:
Sustainable and Transparent Financing of the Road Sub-sector 
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services to implement reform measures to 
improve the management of the Road Fund including: (a) the setting up of the Road Fund 
Advisory and Review Board (RFARB); (b) logistical assistance for the establishment and 
operation of a Technical Secretariat to support the RFARB; (c) preparation of detailed 
procedures for the operations of the RFARB and the Road Fund; (d) preparation of the 
annual road maintenance financing program, accounting and financial management and 
norms and standards for road works; and (e) audits and studies relating thereto.  
 
2. 
Acquisition of office equipment, materials and two vehicles for the Technical 
Secretariat. 
 
Page  22
Part C
:
Social and Environmental Sustainability
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services, training and studies to strengthen the 
Borrowers' capacity in environmental management in the transport sector.  
 
2. 
 Carrying out of civil works to support Environmental Social Impact (ESI) 
mitigation measures under the sub-projects in the roads, ports, railways and civil aviation 
sub-sectors.  
3. 
Acquisition of equipment to support ESI mitigation measures under the Project.  
 
Part D
:
Road Maintenance, Rehabilitation, Construction
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services, logistical assistance for: (a) the 
expansion and updating of databases on state of road infrastructure; (b) organizational 
adjustment of the DTP; (c) creation and operations of an autonomous Road Works 
Agency; and (d) preparation and updating of the Borrower's three-year rolling Road 
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program (RMRP). 
 
2. 
Training of key personnel involved in the road sub-sector.  
 
3. 
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance for the 
restructuring CEREEQ and strengthening its normative role, and reform and restructuring 
of CFP, including setting-up of an accounting and financial management system.  
 
4. 
Provision of technical advisory services, studies and training for mobilization of 
private participation in roads sub-sector financing.  
 
5. 
Carrying out of studies in the area of road maintenance, and engineering and 
supervision of road works.  
 
6. 
Carrying out of a program of periodic maintenance of about 200 km of paved 
roads, regraveling of about 600 km of earth roads, elimination of critical spots on about 
1,000 km of earth roads, as well as, the rehabilitation of bridges. 
 
7. 
Acquisition of equipment and material including office and didactic equipment 
and vehicles. 
 
8. 
Provision of technical advisory services to carry out engineering and 
environmental impact assessment of a toll road in Dakar. 
 
Part E
:
Railways sub-sector
1. 
Acquisition of equipment, provision of technical advisory services and training 
for: (a) the privatization of the operation of international railway services on the Dakar-
Page  23
Bamako corridor; and (b) the implementation of CARHEM restructuring and new 
strategy; and (c) operations, management and staff training for CARCHEM.  
 
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services for the mobilization of private 
participation in railway projects designed to support mining development.  
 
3. 
Provision of equipment and carrying out of works for track renewal of the 
Thiès/Tivaoune section, rehabilitation of the track between Dakar and Thiès and 
construction of a third track between Hann and Thiaroye.  
 
4. 
Carrying out of studies, engineering and supervision related to works in the 
railway sub-sector.  
5. 
Provision of goods and carrying out of works for track renewal of the 
Tambacounda-Kidira section, remodeling of the Kidira border station, track rehabilitation 
of the Thiès-Tambacounda section, safety fencing and pedestrian overpasses.  
 
6. 
Acquisition of a radio-block system for the Thiès-Kidira section, improvement of 
signaling for Dakar-Thiès-Bel Air, acquisition of telecommunication equipment, in-
motion weighing equipment and didactic equipment for the TRANSRAIL training centre. 
 
7. 
Implementation of a program designed to facilitate the retrenchment of up to 314 
SNCS  staff declared redundant as a result of closure of the passenger rail lines 
Dakar/Saint-Louis and Guingueneo/Kaolack, including the provision of severance 
payments.  
 
8. 
Implementation of a program designed to facilitate the retrenchment of up to 550 
SNCS staff declared redundant as a result of the privatization of the operation by SETI of 
international railway services on the Dakar-Bamako corridor, and restructuring of SNCS, 
including the provision of severance payments. 
 
Part F
:
Airports and Civil Aviation sub-sector 
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services including studies for privatization of 
AIR SENEGAL, privatization of airports management, and reorganization of the DAC, 
including regulatory arrangements. 
 
2. 
Provision of training for sub-sector staff.  
 
3. 
Rehabilitation of offices of DAC and DMN.  
 
4. 
Acquisition of office, didactic, computer and other equipment and office 
furniture for DAC and DMN.  
 
5. 
Provision of logistical assistance and navigation and safety equipment for 
airports and handling equipment for LSS airport.  
Page  24
Part G
:
Modernization and Development of the Port of Dakar 
1. 
Provision of materiel and naval equipment for the Port of Dakar, including inter 
alia, tug-boat and barge.  
 
2. 
Carrying out of studies, provision of technical advisory services and training for 
the PAD personnel.  
 
Part H
:
Modernization and Development of Maritime and River Transport
1. 
Strengthening of sub-sectoral institutions including the Merchant Marine 
Department (DMM) and Ministry of Maritime Transport (MPTM) including provision of 
training and technical advisory services, and carrying out of technical studies.  
 
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services for updating of the Maritime Code.  
 
3. 
Provision of advisory services and training for mobilization of private 
participation in ports development and maritime transport including Dakar-Ziguinchor 
maritime route.  
 
4. 
Acquisition of office, didactic and logistical equipment and materials for DMM 
and for the Ecole Nationale de Formation Maritime.  
 
5. 
Expansion and rehabilitation works for Kaolack and Ziguinchor ports including 
improving access to the ports, docks and passengers terminals at Dakar and Ziguinchor.  
 
Part I
:
Rural Transport Sub-sector 
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services and studies for design of a rural transport 
strategy, preparation of a national rural transport project, and establishment of a rural 
transport coordination unit.  
 
2. 
Provision of training related to activities in paragraph 1 above.  
 
3. 
Acquisition of office and didactic equipment for activities in paragraph 1 above.  
 
4. 
Carrying out of priority and emergency program of rehabilitation, periodic 
maintenance, treatment of critical spots, and exceptionally, improvement of rural roads, 
in conformity with the Borrower's new strategy for rural transport.  
 
5. 
Studies, engineering and supervision related to civil works carried out under this 
Part I. 
Part J
:
Coordination
Page  25
Provision by technical advisory services, equipment and logistical assistance for the 
coordination of the Project. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005. 
 
Page  26
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
1. 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications set forth in paragraph 2 
of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.  
 
2. 
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” 
and “Participating Country”. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding 
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.  
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.  
 
(a) 
Prequalification Bidders for contracts for works estimated to cost 
$10,000,000and above, shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.  
 
(b) 
Grouping of contracts To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and 
works shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more 
each. 
 
(c) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors, the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to 
be carried out by domestic contractors.  
 
Page  27
(d) 
Dispute Review Board  
 
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.  
 
(e) 
Notification and Advertising The invitation to prequalify or bid for each 
contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in 
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $10,500,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,050,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $2,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  
 
3. Commercial 
Practices
.
Items to be financed under the TRANSRAIL Subsidiary Loan Agreement for 
Part E of the Project, may be procured in accordance with commercial practices 
acceptable to the Bank. 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,420,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
Page  28
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for 
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.  
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 and $150,000 respectively, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  
 
3.  
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, (the Consultant Guidelines), subject to the 
modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A, and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section II.  
 
2. In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the reference to "Bank Member 
Countries" and "Member Country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".  
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants.  
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants' services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The 
Page  29
short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for audits of standard nature, estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less than $ 50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants' services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
Page  30
$200,000, and all contracts for financial audits, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.] .  
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  31
SCHEDULE 4  
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Implementing Agencies to implement the Project in 
accordance with the Project Execution Manual, and except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof 
if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment, abrogation or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. Coordination and 
Management  
 
2. 
MEF will, in collaboration with MEM, MIETTTMI, and AATR, provide 
oversight and guidance for the program. MEF shall coordinate the Project through a 
Project Coordination Unit (CELCO). Implementation will be based on an Annual Work 
Program and Budget (AWPB) prepared by each Implementing Agency with the 
assistance of CELCO.  
 
3. 
CELCO shall, inter alia:  
 
(a) 
coordinate between the Borrower, beneficiary entities, and Donors, and 
keep them apprised of all important matters related to the Project;  
 
(b) 
provide full support and assistance to Project beneficiary entities in 
resolving problems related to the execution of the Project;  
 
(c) 
coordinate the preparation of the AWPB and monitor its execution, 
including the monitoring of allocation of Donors and the Borrower's contribution, and, 
where applicable, contribution from other private sources of various implementation 
entities;  
 
(d) 
coordinate the preparation of AWPB by each implementation entity, 
aggregate them into consolidated AWPB and secure its approval by the MEFP in 
consultation with the Association, and monitor the execution of work programs under the 
Project;  
 
(e) 
prepare and circulate detailed progress reports on the implementation of 
the Project; and  
 
(f) 
provide overall project administrative and financial management and 
reporting, including arrangements for audits, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association. 
 
Page  32
Road Fund Advisory and Review Board 
4. 
The Road Fund Advisory and Review Board (RFARB) shall comprise 
representatives from both the private and public sectors. RFARB shall review the 
functions and mode of operation of the Road Fund, advise the Borrower's Ministers of 
Economy, Finance and Planning, and Equipment Land Transport, and ensure that the 
Road Fund operates along well defined technical, accounting and financial management 
procedures. RFARB shall maintain, until the completion of the Project or such time as the 
Borrower and the Association shall agree upon, a separate secretariat with technical staff 
with specific expertise in financial and accounting management, road works and 
procurement.  
 
Annual Review
5. 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;  
 
(b) 
not later than May 31 each year, commencing May 31, 2000, undertake, 
in conjunction with the Association, a joint annual review on all matters relating to the 
progress of the Project and, in particular the progress achieved in the implementation of 
the Project during the previous Fiscal Year, having regard to the Performance Indicators; 
and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association:  
 
(i) 
not later than October 31 of each year, an annual plan for 
road maintenance, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association;
 
(ii) 
semiannual financial statements indicating all revenues and 
expenditures for the transport sector, according to the source of 
funds, the budget items;  and  
 
(iii) 
not later than one month prior to the annual review referred to in 
paragraph (b) above, or such later date as the Association may 
agree, a report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program during the 
previous Fiscal Year and setting out the measures proposed to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Program and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
Page  33
following such date, and the report of actual expenditures against 
the budget for the previous Fiscal Year. 
 
Annual Work Programs and Budgets 
6. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than one month prior to the annual review referred to in 
paragraph 
5
(b)
 above, or such later date as the Association may agree, furnish to the 
Association for its approval the proposed AWPB for the following Fiscal Year, prepared 
in a manner satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(b) 
carry out, or cause to be carried out, each such AWPB in accordance 
with modalities and procedures as approved by, and in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association and in accordance with the Project Execution Manual; and 
 
(c) 
not make any material change to the approved AWPB without the prior 
approval of the Association. 
 
7. 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association: (a) a semi-annual progress report 
including information on agreed upon Performance Indicators based on data from the 
monitoring system. The report shall include, inter alia,: (a) a summary statement on the 
status of execution of each project activity; and (b) a table showing compliance with 
project covenants and progress in implementing agreed policy objectives.  
 
Mid-term review
8. 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about January 31, 2002, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and  
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Page  34
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the matter. 
 
Page  35
SCHEDULE 5  
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:  
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and  
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
CFAF 2,500,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to CFAF 1,250,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 6,000,000.  
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b)  
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments 
in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each 
Page  36
such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;  
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or  
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  37
6. 
(a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.  
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  38
SCHEDULE 6  
 
Performance Indicators 
 
1.  Development objective : strengthen institutional capacity, financial viability and 
operational efficiency of the agencies of the transport sector 
-
output : creation of an autonomous Civil Aviation Authority and an autonomous 
authority for the management of airport security at the Dakar airport; creation of an 
autonomous Road Agency responsible for management of maintenance of the classified 
road network, and production of data on road safety accidents every year, starting in 
2002;. 
-
outcome : 100 percent of invoices for road maintenance works paid in less than 30 days 
from the Road Fund account managed by the Road Agency; 100 percent of contracts 
awarded in less than 30 days for contracts below CFAF 1 billion and less than 45 days for 
contracts above CFAF 1 billion; three-year road maintenance program submitted to Road 
Council before October 31 every year starting from FY 2002; technical and financial 
audits of road maintenance program submitted to Road Council before June 30 every 
year; The annual budget for road maintenance is 12 billion CFA minimum. 
-
impact : The Road Laboratory is accredited to ISO standards. 
2.  Development objective: encourage more direct private sector involvement in 
investment and management of the transport sector 
-
output : a private operator is granted a concession for the operation of railway services; 
maritime services between Dakar and Ziguinchor are operated by a private operator; 
creation of a Road Council with representatives from road users to supervise the Road 
Agency;  Road Laboratory is privatized. 
-
outcome : railway traffic growth is positive starting in 2003 after several years of 
negative trend. 
A
concession agreement is signed between the government and a private operator for 
Dakar-Ziguinchor maritime services. 
3.  Development objective : stabilize and improve the condition of its priority road 
network, reduce the long-run economic costs for road maintenance and 
rehabilitation in order to enhance economic competitiveness and attain sectoral 
financial sustainability 
-
outcome: the condition of classified roads is upgraded from poor or very poor to good 
or average as follows : earth roads : 548 km in 2002 and 1000 km in 2003 and 2004; 
paved roads : 100 km in 2002 and 300 km in 2003 and 2004. 
Page  39
-
outputs:  200 km of periodic maintenance executed on paved roads; 600 km of periodic 
maintenance executed on earth roads; 1000 km of treatment of hot spots executed 
-
impact: increase the number of contracts awarded to SMEs 
 
4.  Development objective: increase the number of district capitals with access to all-
weather roads     
 
Output: 
 
-
Adoption of a rural transport strategy.
 
Outcome: 
 
-
50
rural communities have access to the main road network through all-weather roads.             
 
5.  Development objective: reduce poverty
 
Output 
 
-
Adoption and implementation of the plan of action to fight against HIV/AIDS  
-
including a campaign of awareness in formal and informal transport sectors 
Outcome  
-
Reduction of the number of accident in the most dangerous streets and roads of Dakar 
Metropolitan area from 368 per year to 150. 
 
