Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3183-SE
PAD Project Agreement
(Second Transport Sector Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PORT AUTONOME DE DAKAR 
Dated May 13, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3183-SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 13, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and PORT AUTONOME DE DAKAR (PAD).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Senegal (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty 
four million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 64,300,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
conditions that PAD agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and PAD, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to PAD on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS PAD, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) PAD declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Part G of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and technical 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Part G of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and PAD shall otherwise agree, PAD shall carry out Part 
G of  the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 
4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part G of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) PAD shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Part G of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, PAD shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and 
PAD, a plan for the future 
operation of Part G of  the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with PAD on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. PAD shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PAD shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) PAD shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part G of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
PAD shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part G of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by PAD of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Management and Operations of PAD
Section 3.01. PAD shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. PAD shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and technical practices.
Section 3.03. PAD shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) PAD shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
PAD shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PAD shall 
earn for each of its fiscal years, an annual return of not less than 2% of the average 
current net value of PAD’s fixed assets in operation.  
(b)
Before December 31 in each of its fiscal years, shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by PAD and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next 
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the results of such review 
upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that PAD would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for the PAD’s fiscal years covered by such review, PAD shall 
promptly take all necessary measures including, without limitation, adjustments of the 
structure or levels of its rates  in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
The term “net operating income” means total operating revenues 
less total 
operating expenses.
(ii)
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate of 
not less than 10% per annum of the 
Page  4
average current gross value of PAD’s fixed 
assets in operation, or 
other basis acceptable to the Association, but 
excluding 
interest and other charges on debt.
(iii)
The average current gross value of PAD’s fixed assets in operation 
shall be 
calculated as one half of the sum of the gross value of 
PAD’s fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at the end of 
the fiscal year, as valued from 
time to time in accordance with sound 
and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the 
Association.
(iv)
The term “current net value of PAD’s fixed assets in operation” 
means the 
gross value of the PAD’s fixed assets in operation 
less the amount of 
accumulated depreciation, as valued from time 
to time in accordance with sound 
and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association sh all otherwise agree, PAD shall 
not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity 
shall be greater than 1.5 to 1.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section: 
(i)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment, on the date, and to the extent, 
the amount of such debt has become 
outstanding pursuant to such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under 
a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee 
has 
been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is 
outstanding. 
(iii)
The term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of PAD not allocated 
to cover specific 
liabilities.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PAD shall 
maintain: (i) for Fiscal Year 2000, a ratio of total labor expenses to total operating 
revenues 
not higher than 25%; (ii) for Fiscal Year 2001, a ratio of total labor 
expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 24%; (iii) for Fiscal Year 2002, 
a ratio of total labor expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 23%; (iv) 
for Fiscal Year 2003, a ratio of total labor expenses to total operating revenues not 
higher than 22%; (v) for Fiscal Year 2004, a ratio of total labor expenses to total 
operating revenues not higher than 21%; and (vi) for each Fiscal Year after Fiscal 
Year ending on December 31, 2005, a ratio of total labor expenses to total operating 
revenues not higher than 20%.
(b)
Before December 31 in each Fiscal Year, PAD shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by PAD and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such Fiscal Year and 
the next following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the Association the results of 
such review upon its completion.
Page  5
(c)
If any such review shows that PAD would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for the Fiscal Years covered by such review, PAD shall promptly 
take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “total labor expenses” means all expenses related to 
salaries and 
wages paid by PAD to permanent and fixed-term staff 
employed by PAD for its 
operations, excluding expenses related to the 
staff assigned to 
investment-related activities.
(ii)
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues, comprising all 
taxes, from 
all sources related to operations, including the 
compensations for public 
service obligations.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
PAD thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify PAD of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Port Autonome de Dakar:
Page  6
Boulevard de la Libération
B.P. 3195
Dakar
Senegal
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of PAD may be 
taken or executed by the Director General or such other person or persons as the 
Director General shall designate in writing, and  PAD shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
PORT AUTONOME DE DAKAR
By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck
Authorized Representative
