Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
CREDIT NUMBER 3183-SE
SNCS Project Agreement
(Second Transport Sector Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER DU SENEGAL 
Dated May 13, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3183-SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 13, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER DU SENEGAL (SNCS).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Senegal (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty 
four million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 64,300,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
conditions that SNCS agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and SNCS, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to SNCS on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS SNCS, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.  
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SNCS declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and technical practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Part E of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and SNCS shall otherwise agree, SNCS shall carry out 
Part E of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part E of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) SNCS shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Part E of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, SNCS shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and 
SNCS, a plan for the future 
operation of Part E of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with SNCS on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. SNCS shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SNCS shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SNCS shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
SNCS shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SNCS of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, SNCS shall, commencing by:
(a)
May 1, 1999, and not later than the twentieth day (20th) of each month in 
each Fiscal Year and until Project completion, prepare and furnish to the Association 
Page  3
a report, in a format acceptable to the Association, including monthly statistics of 
the preceding month on traffic, motive power and rolling stock performance, 
infrastructure management, human resources and financial performance of SNCS' 
operations; and
(b)
October 31, 1999 and not later than April 30 and October 31 in each 
Fiscal Year and until Project Completion, prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, 
describing  the progress in the implementation of the Project during the preceding six 
(6) month period.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SNCS
Section 3.01. SNCS shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SNCS shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and technical practices.
Section 3.03. SNCS shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SNCS shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) SNCS 
shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SNCS shall 
produce, for each of its fiscal years, after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 
1999, funds from internal sources equivalent to: not less than 30% of its total 
operating revenue, for FY 2000; not less than 32% of its total operating revenue, for 
FY 2001; not less than 35% of its total operating revenue, for FY 2002; not less than 
37% of the total operating revenue, for FY 2003; not less than 40% of its total 
operating revenue, for FY 2004; and not less than 40% of its total operating revenue, 
for FY 2005. 
(b)
Before December 31 in each of its fiscal years, SNCS shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by SNCS and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
Page  4
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the 
next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such review 
upon its completion. 
(c)
If any such review shows that SNCS would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for SNCS fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower 
shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments 
of the structure or levels of its rates prices in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
The term “funds from internal sources” means the difference 
between: (A) the 
sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations, consumer deposits and 
consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net non-operating income and 
any reduction in working 
capital other than cash; and (B) the sum of all 
expenses 
related to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance 
and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for depreciation 
and other non-cash operating charges),  all cash dividends and other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other than 
cash and 
other cash outflows other than capital expenditures.
(ii)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between: 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and (B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, incurred in the 
generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iii)
The term “current assets excluding cash” means all assets other 
than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses 
within the next 
fiscal year.
(iv)
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and 
dividends.
(v)
The term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures incurred on 
account of 
fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to 
operations.
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SNCS shall 
not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of SNCS for the fiscal year immediately 
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior 
to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times 
the estimated maximum debt service requirements of SNCS for any succeeding fiscal year 
on all debt of SNCS, including the debt to be incurred.
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
Page  5
(ii)
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: (A) the sum 
of revenues 
from all sources related to operations adjusted to take 
account of SNCS rates 
in effect at the time of the incurrence of 
debt even though they were not in 
effect during the twelve-month 
period to which such revenues relate and net 
non-operating income; and 
(B) the sum of all expenses related to operations 
including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other non-cash operating 
charges and interest and other charges on debt.
(iii)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between: 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and (B)
expenses, including rates and payments in lieu 
of taxes, incurred in the 
generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SNCS shall 
not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity 
shall be greater than 1.5 to 1.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section: 
(i)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A)
under a loan 
contract or agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or 
for the modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B)
under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment, on the date, and to the extent, 
the amount of such debt has become 
outstanding pursuant to such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under 
a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee 
has 
been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is 
outstanding. 
(iii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SNCS shall 
maintain: (i) for Fiscal Year 2000, a ratio of total labor expenses to total operating 
revenues not higher than 40%; (ii) for Fiscal Year 2001, a ratio of total labor 
expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 35%; (iii) for Fiscal Year 2002, 
a ratio of total labor expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 30%; (iv) 
for Fiscal Year 2003, a ratio of total labor expenses to total operating revenues not 
higher than 25%; (v) for each Fiscal Year after Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 
2004, a ratio of total labor expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 20%; 
and (vi) for each Fiscal Year after Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 2005, a ratio 
of total labor expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 20%.
(b)
Before December 31 in each Fiscal Year, SNCS shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by SNCS and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
Page  6
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such Fiscal Year 
and the next following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the Association the results 
of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that  SNCS would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for the Fiscal Years covered by such review, SNCS shall 
promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “total labor expenses” means all expenses related to 
salaries and 
wages paid by SNCS to permanent and fixed-term staff 
employed by SNCS for its 
operations, excluding expenses related to the 
staff assigned to 
investment-related activities.
(ii)
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues, comprising all 
taxes, from 
all sources related to operations, including the 
compensations for public 
service obligations.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
SNCS thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify SNCS of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  7
For Société Nationale des Chemins de Fer du Sénégal:
Cité Balla Bay
B.P. 175 A
Thies
Senegal
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SNCS may be 
taken or executed by the Director General or such other person or persons as the 
Director general shall designate in writing, and SNCS shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER DU SENEGAL
By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck
Authorized Representative 
