Report No. PID5747
Project Name                      Guatemala-Reconstruction and Local ...
Development Project
Region                            Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                            Social Protection
Project ID                        GTPE49386
Borrower                          The Republic of Guatemala
Implementing Agency               Fondo Nacional para la Paz (FONAPAZ)
5 Avenida 8-50 Zona 9
Guatemala, C.A 01009
Phone: (502) 331-4155
Fax: (502) 332-3394
Contact: Dra. Margarita de Aguilar
Coordinadora del Proyecto
FONAPAZ
5 Avenida 8-50 Zona 9
Guatemala, C.A 01009
Tel.    (502) 331-4155
Fax: (502) 332-3394
Date this PID Prepared            October 6, 1997
Appraisal Date                    January 19-23, 1998 (tentative)
Projected Board Date              February 24, 1998
1. Country and Sector Background: Guatemala has the largest
economy of Central America. The country is emerging from 36 years
of civil war which ended in 1996 and is trying to improve rapidly
its rate of economic growth and alleviate poverty. Society is
sharply segmented, with income and land distribution highly
skewed. Poverty is chronic, particularly in isolated rural areas,
and social indicators are low by regional standards. Extreme
poverty is concentrated among the indigenous people who account
for more than half of the total population, and among women.
Guatemala has the third highest degree of income inequality
(exceeded only within that segment by Brazil and Pakistan) among
44 low to middle income countries worldwide. The poorest quintile
of the population receives only 1.9 percent of the total income.
Guatemala also has the lowest schooling coverage in Latin America,
except for Haiti. Education spending has been among the lowest in
the region for decades (1.8 percent of GDP compared with a
regional average of 4 percent). Infant mortality is 55 per 1,000
live births, and maternal mortality is 110 per 100,000 live
births. Approximately 16 percent of infants suffer from low birth
weight and approximately 50 percent of children are malnourished.
These indicators are even worse for indigenous groups, females,
and for rural residents. These factors help to explain over three
decades of warfare between successive governments and guerrilla
movements based in the indigenous highlands of the country.



However, since the current Government negotiated an end to this
long-standing civil war, an opportunity has opened to strengthen
democratic institutions and accelerate economic and social
development, particularly for the indigenous people.
2. Project Objectives. The project will improve living standards
and contribute to the sustainable self-development of the local
population, mostly indigenous people living in extreme poverty, in
10 municipalities of the Department of San Marcos and one
municipality in the Department of Huehuetenango, through the
transfer of resource management know-how and financial and
technical resources to the beneficiaries. The project seeks to
use participatory mechanisms for: (i) strengthening local
community organizations and their municipal governments; (ii)
decentralizing the allocation and management of technical and
financial resources to the local level; and (iii) financing
community-based productive, cultural, social and economic
infrastructure subprojects.
3. Project Description: The project, whose total cost is
estimated at US$50 million, would be implemented over a four-year
period starting in 1998 and would have three components. These
components include: (a) Community Subprojects. This component
would finance small productive, cultural, social and economic
infrastructure subprojects, prioritized, formulated and managed by
the communities themselves; with a suggested maximum total cost
per subproject of US$150,000.00 (including beneficiary
contributions). Subprojects eligible for financing will have to
meet technical, financial, economic, social and environmental
criteria and not be included in the list of subprojects ineligible
for financing. (b) Capacity Building. This will consist of
financing, as needed, capacity building activities for municipal
governments, participating municipal and local development
councils and beneficiary organizations in the various aspects of
formulation, planning, evaluation, financing, and execution of
development plans and the resulting subprojects. (c) Institution
Building. This component would partially finance the operational
cost of a FONAPAZ project coordinating unit, situated in the midst
of the target municipalities, and its various supervision and
monitoring activities.
4. Proposed Project Financing. Project costs are estimated at
US$50 million. Bank financing would be for US$30 million, the
central government and co-financiers would each finance US$7.5
million, and the beneficiaries would finance the remaining US$5
million.
5.  Project Implementation.    The executing agency will be the
Fondo Nacional para la Paz (FONAPAZ).
6. Project Sustainability. Subproject sustainability will be
addressed through the high level of beneficiary participation in
the formulation, execution, operation and maintenance of the
individual subprojects. Project sustainability will be obtained
through the effective transfer of technical know-how to the
-2 -



beneficiaries and the municipal governments in the formulation of
self-development plans and the identification and management of
financial resources to fund it. The subproject investments and
technical assistance resources financed under this project will
serve as means for the effective transfer of know-how to the
beneficiaries after the project is completed. Additionally, the
project itself is a pilot to test a self-development model that
can be replicated elsewhere in Guatemala.
7. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector.
This project aims to provide a substantial package of
multisectoral investments and use a negative list of investments
that will significantly widen the choices that beneficiaries can
make. Additionally, through the use of participatory methodology,
the beneficiaries will play a significant role in the investment
decisions, the allocation of resources, and in the management and
sustainablilty of the subprojects themselves.
8.  Poverty Category.    Poverty Alleviation.
9. Environmental Aspects. All subprojects eligible for financing
will be required to meet environmental impact criteria as part of
their technical evaluation. Although this project will deal with
water and sanitation issues, the overall scope is to rationalize
the use of water resources and reduce environmental degradation.
The project will also promote reforestation and better management
of all natural resources.
10. Program Objective Categories. The primary categories are
Physical, Training and Operating.
Contact Point:           Rafael E. Flores/Juliana Weissman, Task Managers
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 5454
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending November 14, 1997.
- 3 -



