Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 17194
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FOR A
RECONSTRUCTION AND LOCAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 26, 1998
Human and Social Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 1998)
Currency Unit = Guatemnalan Quetzals (GTC)
US$1.00 = $6.27 GTC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                          Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA                         Canadian International Development Agency
CBOs                         Community-based Organizations
DECOPAZ                      IDB's Community Development for Peace Project
ERR                          Economic Rate of Return
FIS                          Social Investment Fund (Fondo Inversion Social)
FODIGUA                      Guatemalan Indigenous Development Fund
FONAPAZ                     National Peace Fund (Fondo Nacional para la Paz)
FRR                         Financial Rate of Retum
GDP                         Gross Domestic Product
GNP                         Gross National Product
GOG                         Govemment of Guatemala
IBRD                        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB                         Inter-American Development Bank
KfW                         Gerrnan Institute for Reconstruction and Development
LIB                          Limited International Bidding
MIS                          Management Information System
MOH                          Ministry of Health
NCB                         National Competitive Bidding
NGO                         Non-Governmental Organization
NPV                         Net Present Value
OM                           Project Orientation Manual
PCU                          Project Coordinating Unit
PIR                          Portfolio Implementation Review
PRONADE                     National Program for Educational Development
UNDP                         United Nations Development Program
Vice President               Sha-hid Javed Burki
Director                     Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Country Sector Leader       Ana-Maria Arriagada
Task Managers                Rafael Flores/Juliana Weismann



Guatemala
Reconstruction and Local Development Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators            1
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                        1
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                              2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices      2
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                     3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project           3
3. Benefits and target population                                          4
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                           5
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection              7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  8
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                 8
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                        9
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                             9
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                               9
2. Financial                                                               9
3. Technical                                                              10
4. Institutional                                                          10
5. Social                                                                 11
6. Environmental assessment                                               12
7. Participatory approach                                                 12



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                           12
2. Critical risks                                                            13
3. Possible controversial aspects                                            14
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                 14
2. Other                                                                     14
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                     14
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                    15
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description and lmplementation Arrangements
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Economic Analysis
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Guatemala at a Glance
Annex 11.    Social Assessment - Executive Summary
Maps         Guatemala
Social Assessment
Mayan Monolinguism
Hipsometry



Guatemala
Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Central America Department
Date: June 1, 1998                               Task Manager: Rafael E. Flores /Juliana Weismann
Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo (LCC2C)    Acting Sector Director: Xavier Coll (LCSHD)
Project I): GT-PE-49386  Sector: Social          Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment and        Program of Targeted Intervention:  3  Yes [  No
Maintenance Loan
Project Financing Data               3 Loan       E  Credit     E  Guarantee    [] Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$30.0 million
Proposed terms:                      rl  Multicurrency      3  Single currency, specify: US$
Grace period (years): 5         2   Standard Variable  E   Fixed          3    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0.0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source       Local             Foreign          Total
Borrower        4.5               0.0              4.5
IBRD        26.0               4.0             30.0
Beneficiaries      3.0               0.0              3.0
Total       33.5               4.0             37.5
Borrower: Republic of Guatemala
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Fondo Nacional para la Paz (FONAPAZ)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):            1999       2000     2001   2002   2003
Annual                 3          6         8       8       5
Cumulative                 3          9        17      25      30
Project implementation period: 1999-2002 Expected effectiveness date: 1/10/99  Expected closing date: 6/30/03



Project Appraisl Document                                                           Page 1
Couttry: Guaemala                                          Reconstruction and Local Development Project
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project objective is the improvement of living standards and sustainable self-development of the
population of approximately 500,000, mostly indigenous people, living in extreme poverty in 16
municipalities in San Marcos and Huehuetenango; through the transfer of financial and technical resources
and resource management know-how to the beneficiaries. The project seeks to: (i) strengthen local
community organizations and municipal governments; (ii) decentralize the allocation and management of
(technical and financial) resources to the local level; and (iii) finance community-based, social and
economic infrastructure and cultural heritage subprojects. The proposed project would pilot a shift in the
Bank's approach to poverty alleviation in Guatemala from provision of a minimal safety net to funding
community-based development activities defined and implemented by the beneficiaries themselves. The
entire project is in full compliance with O.D. 4.20 and was conceived on the principle that community-
based development can only be sustainable when the local population actively participates in project
planning and execution. The project design is also consistent with the Guatemalan Peace Accords.
Processes and outcomes would be monitored and evaluated on an ongoing basis. Process Indicators:
participating beneficiary organizations and local governments would be grouped into categories reflecting
their capacity level at entry and their development during project implementation would be monitored and
evaluated. Outcome Indicators: five key indicators have been selected to measure project success: (i) the
number of subprojects financed by category and project type, to measure the level of technical difficulty;
(ii) the number of beneficiaries reached (families, women, communities), to measure efficiency in resource
allocation; (iii) the number of technical assistance and training events (including those for women), to
measure access to resources; (iv) the number of community organizations formned and functioning
satisfactorily, to measure project participation; and (v) the financial, technical and organizational
sustainability of subprojects, to measure efficacy of investments.
Poverty Imsact Indicators. A baseline and control group would be established in year 1 of the
implementation of the project and a random sample survey of representative subproject types conducted in
year 4 to measure the impact of subproject investments on key socio-economic indicators, such as income
generation, health, education and migration, and consequently on the quality of life of the beneficiary
population. Differentiation by ethnicity and gender would be taken into account.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 18036-GU   Date of latest CAS discussion: 7/14/98
The project would support two key objectives of the Guatemala Country Assistance Strategy FY99-01,
discussed in July 1998: (i) Building Cohesion and Strengthening Participatory Decision Processes, and
(ii) Poverty Reduction, in direct support of the implementation of the Peace Accords. The proposed project
would promote decentralization and local capacity building by relying significantly on beneficiary
organizations, locally based NGOs, local governments and the private sector for implementation. The
Project would assist in the reduction of poverty by: (i) helping to expand access to public social services,
particularly education, health, water and sanitation, and access roads; and (ii) increasing productive
opportunities for the poor, mainly through the provision of basic economic infrastructure and support
services in the identification of markets for local products, training, and technical assistance to access
sources of credit.



Project Appteal Document                                                               Page 2
Coufty: Guatemala                                            Roconstruction and Local Dewlopment Project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Chronic Poverty. Guatemala has recety emerged from 36 years of civil war and currendy has the third
highest degree of income  equaty (exceeded only by Brazil and Pakisan) among 44 low to middle ince
countries worldwide. The poorest quintile of the population receives only 1.9 percent of total income. Poverty
and  equaty largely stem fiom unequal access to productive assets, most notably land, and chronic low
invem_e in human capital. At last count 2.5 percent of Guatenala's 5.3 million farms control 65 percent of
the agncultura land, whereas only 16 percent of the land is cultivated by 88 percent of the farmers. Extreme
poverty is concetrted amnong the indgn  people who account for more than half of the total population, and
among women. Education spending has been among the lowest in the region for decades (1.6 percent of GDP in
1994 compared with a regional average of 4 percent) and the educaton enroUment rate is the second lowest in
Latin America. Heath expenditur  are also among the lowest in the region (1.2% of GDP in 1994 compared
with a regional average of 3 percent). hnfant mortaity is 55 per 1,000 live births, and maternal mortality is 110
per 100,000 live births. Approximately 16 percent of infants suffer from low birth weight and approximately 50
percent of children are  anaourshed. These indicators are even worse for indigenous than for non-indigenous
groups, for females than for males, and for rural than for urban residents.
Government Strategy and Institutional Capacity. The government's development strategy in the context
of the Peace Accords is to make, in a decentralized manner, substantial investments in social and economic
infrastructure and services for populations living in extreme poverty and isolation; the proposed project
would support these objectives. The government's strategy takes into account: (i) the inability of the
ministries to address these problems and the need to provide a prompt, efficient and sustainable response to
the basic needs of its rural population; and (ii) the magnitude of extreme poverty, social and economic
isolation, and environmental degradation prevailing in the project area. The project decentralized approach
is consistent with the terms of the Accords, specifically the Socio-Economic Accord and the Agreement on
the Identity and Rights of the Indigenous Peoples and provides the foundation, at the local level, for a
Government scheme that involves community organizations, the activation of the Departmental and
Regional Development Councils, coordination with other Government agencies such as the Secretariat of
Planning (SEGEPLAN) and the Institute for Municipal Development (INFOM), and with the other Social
Funds, mainly FSDIC-Solfdarfdad and FIS.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The ability of the government to improve the living conditions of the poor and implement the Peace
Accords is severely constrained by the shortcomings of the public sector. Although a program to
modernize the state is underway, this will take time. To address high-priority social and economic
investment needs in the short term and in an efficient way, the Government is making use of various social
funds, including the National Peace Fund (Fondo Naclonal Para La Paz or FONAPAZ), which finances
small-scale sub-projects proposed by municipalities, cooperatives, associations of producers, local
committees and community groups. International financial support for FONAPAZ has recently come from
BCIE, OPEC, IDB and KfW; the last two who are financing community-based development projects for
the population affected by the conflict in northern Huehuetenango (through a parallel project) and Alta and
Baja Verapaz, respectively.
The proposed project would support the government strategy by enabling local communities, mostly
indigenous, to direct their own development. The beneficiaries would work with representatives of local
governments to identify and prioritize their needs and formulate community-based subprojects (Community
Subprojects) to satisfy them. Beneficiaries would have access to financial and technical resources to
evaluate, design, contract, execute and manage the subprojects identified through a community-based needs
assessment and consensus building process. The project would address the above mentioned major poverty
issues, including: the high rate of waterborne diseases caused by poor sanitary conditions, in particular the
lack of potable water and adequate arrangements for waste disposal; inadequate access to health and
education services; poor management of natural resources; isolation caused by the lack of roads and other
means of communication with the world beyond their communities; and lack of access to credit and training



Prjec Appraisl Document                                                                           Pago 3
Co-tty: Guabtala                                                      Reconotructof and Local Delopment ProjW
to generate income earning opportunities. The project would also finance small-scale cultural projects of
importance to the local communities, in accordance with the Peace Accords.
C: Project Description Summary
The project's total cost is estimated at US$37.5 million. It would be implemented over a four-year period
starting in FY99. The project would use participatory mechanisms to finance: (i) community-based
proposals for social and economic infrastructure and cultural subprojects; (ii) the strengthening of local
community organizations and their municipal governments; and (iii) institution building activities.
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)-
..  !  !!  !!  !   !  |   C em xn   !!:  ''" Si':!'! !! !!''"" '! "!   "' "    :!"  !  " ! "   ...................'.   ........ 
"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... .  .i:.:!."..!.     ............'".!.!.:! !'! !:I.:!i
........................................... .................................
Communitv Suboroiects: This component would             Physical         31.5       84.0          24.0        75.0
finance small social and economic infrastructure and
cultural subprojects, prioritized, formulated and
managed by the communities themselves.
Capacitv Building: This component would finance,        Training          3.0       8.0            3.0       100.0
capacity building activities for municipal
governments and participating beneficiary
organizations in the formulation, planning,
evaluation, financing, and execution of subprojects.
Institution Buildine. This component would            Monitoring          3.0         8.0          3.0       100.0
introduce and test innovative management methods to
improve institutional response and increase project
efficiency, finance social communications
campaigns, staff training, project impact evaluations,
and supervision and monitoring activities of a
FONAPAZ project coordinating unit in situ.
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.           ...........   .    ......!
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed Bank project would contribute to the fulfillment of the Peace Accords, which call for
decentralization of government to the local level, conmmunity empowerment, municipal strengthening and
increased participation of the beneficiary groups in decisions affecting the development of their
communuities. It would seek to improve the quality of life of the beneficiaries by: (i) ensuring the transfer of
self-development know-how to the beneficiaries and their municipalities; and (ii) financing community
formulated subprojects. During project preparation contributions were already made in the areas of
facilitating beneficiary access to public funds and obtaining legal recognition of local organizations.



Proect Appraisal Document                                                              Page 4
Country: Guatemal                                            Reconstrucion and Local Development Project
3. Benefits and target population:
The international endorsement of the Peace Accords has led to increased donor activity in the former war-
torn areas of Guatemala (ZONAPAZ). To ensure that Bank financing is complementary to other sources,
an agreement was reached with the Govermnent and other donors on a geographical division of labor in the
ZONAPAZ, where the Bank would concentrate its support in the Department of San Marcos. The project
would benefit an estimated 500,000 people, the majority of whom are indigenous and living in extreme
poverty. Target municipalities were initially selected by consulting the Guatemala SIF Poverty Map and
UNDP and IDB poverty and social exclusion indicators. They constitute the second largest concentration
of population living in extreme poverty in rural Guatemala. Field work during project preparation
confirmed the priority of these areas based on poverty criteria ancd the final list of participating
municipalities was agreed with the Borrower and FONAPAZ.
The PHRD facility was used to finance a Social Assessment (SA), including problem diagnosis and needs
assessment by the target population in the proposed municipalities, through extensive interviews and
consultations with the beneficiaries and their local governments. Resources from the grant were also used
to assess the institutional capacity of FONAPAZ as a vehicle for launching the proposed project and to
develop the methodology required for a decentrahi, demand-driven, highly participatory project. To
date, approximately 60 percent of the beneficiaries in the target area have been surveyed; data obtained in
the SA would be the basis for a baseline and has helped in the identification of a control group to monitor
the impact of the project.
Based on the findings of the SA most of the benefits are expected to be concentrated in health, water and
sanitation, education, productive activities, capacity building, institutional strengthening and cultural
heritage, however, use of a negative list of investments in the proposed project would offer a wider range of
possibilities, both within and outside each sector. The proposed negative list of investments would be
reviewed periodically to reflect beneficiary priorities, requests for subprojects and lessons learned during
implementation and would include:'
• Rehabilitation of national and key departmental routes and municipal rural roads under the Bank-
financed Rural and Main Roads project
-   Any subprojects that could affect the quality and quantity of water flows to the Rio Suchiate or any
other international waterway2
-   Any subprojects involving involuntary resettlement
*   Production of alcohol and tobacco
* Churches and Religious Temples3
*   Facilities for political parties
*   Drug-related investments
* Land acquisition
* Weapons
Additionally, the financing of subprojects would be limited to: (i) proposals presented by organized
beneficiary groups residing in the area or with direct ties to communities within the target area (organically
linked), which are legally organized and have the capacity to manage funds; and (ii) proposals from the
project area benefiting communities with less than 7,000 inhabitants. Government agencies would not be
eligible for the financing of subprojects; however, municipal governments would be able to request funding
for capacity building and institutional strengthening activities.
and any other item which under Bank policy cannot be financed by the Bank.
2 The term "subproject" includes any additions or alterations to ongoing schemes, or projects involving additions or
alterations that require rehabilitation, construction or other physical change.
3It does not apply to the restoration of sacred sites and/or infastructure of cultural, historical value covered under
Cultural Heritage subprojects.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 5
Country: Guatemala                                          Reconstruction and Local Development Project
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Irnpementation Period: 4 years, FY1999 to FY2002
Executing Agency: (FONAPAZ). In 1991 FONAPAZ was created as an agency of the Govemrnent with
the specific objective of addressing the priority needs of thousands of poor Guatemalan refugees who had
fled to Mexico and hundreds of others who had been displaced internally as a result of the internal conflict.
FONAPAZ was also given the mandate of creating favorable conditions for the development of peace,
providing sustainable growth opportunities for rural communities, and acting as a financial mediator to
benefit the population most affected by the armed conflict. It's primary area of responsibility is the
formerly war-tom area (ZONAPAZ), which comprises the departments of Peten, Quiche, Huehuetenango,
Totonicapan, Solola, Chimaltenango, Alta Verapaz, Baja Verapaz and San Marcos.
Project Coordination: A FONAPAZ field project coordinating unit (PCU) in San Marcos, under the
direction of FONAPAZ management, would assume the role of facilitator of technical and investment
resources to the beneficiaries for their Community Subprojects; and be responsible for the execution of the
Capacity and Institution Building components. It would be staffed with technical and financial-
administrative personnel with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank and would be provided
with adequate office technology, facilities, vehicles and training to conduct its work. The PCU would be
established and staffed before loan effectiveness and the roles and responsibilities of the staff, as well as
operational procedures for project implementation, would be specified in the Orientation Manual.
Project Implementation. The beneficiaries themselves organized in groups (Comites) or associations would
be responsible for the identification and formulation of Community Subprojects and their execution,
operation and maintenance. To become eligible for participation in the project, they would need to select
these subprojects in open fora or provide other evidence of significant participation by the majority of
beneficiaries in the selection process, they would also need to obtain legal personality and be issued a
Government account to manage public funds (cuentandancia); arrangements have been made during
project preparation to enable the beneficiaries to do this locally and with simple procedures. Additionally,
technical assistance resources would be available at the PCU to assist them in this process. Once the
communities groups are eligible they can present project ideas or request the technical evaluation (including
social, economic, financial, environmental and other aspects) of subprojects already formulated; technical
assistance resources would be available at the PCU to help them in the formulation of subprojects or carry
out the recommendations of the technical evaluation, as appropriate. Beneficiary contributions would be
identified and included in the total cost of the subprojects and community groups and associations would be
required to present an operation and maintenance plan, including a budget, for each subproject requested.
Subproject requests that have complied with the technical evaluation criteria would then be eligible for
funding. The arrangements for community participation have been made, and the mechanisms would be
piloted and included in the Orientation Manual. A Project Launch Workshop would be held near or at
effectiveness to cover other aspects of project implementation.
Communitv Subprotects. The beneficiaries would manage contracting of Community Subprojects and
supervise their execution or execute the projects themselves. They would be provided with a standard
contract, legal advise and other technical assistance resources to assist them in the process. The
beneficiaries would have t#e freedom to establish the terms of each contract, including the number of
disbursements to contractors. Before disbursements can commence they would also be required to sign a
contract with FONAPAZ to formalize the transfer of funds and specify their obligations and accountability
regarding their use. FONAPAZ would make a total of two disbursements of investment resources would
be made for each subproject; the first one when the contract with FONAPAZ has been signed and a Bank
account for the community group has been established; the second one, when a supervisor from the PCU or
under contract by the PCU has verified in situ progress in the execution of the respective community
subproject(s).



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 6
Country: Guatemala                                           Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Capacitv Building Activities. The PCU would assist in the identification of beneficiary capacity building
needs and be responsible for the selection and contracting of the service providers; which may be
individuals or firms, local organizations, private contractors, NGOs and others. The procedures to be
followed in each case would be specified in the Orientation Manual, and the communities or local
governments receiving technical assistance or training, would have overall responsibility for monitoring the
activities within their mandate, all reporting to the PCU on a quarterly basis.
Institution Building Activities. The Bank will work closely with FONAPAZ, the PCU and their consultants
in the identification of staff training needs; in the development of the various project supervision, impact
monitoring activities, communications materials and campaigns; and in the identification of service
providers or consultants needed, in accordance with procedures established in the Orientation Manual.
Project Supervision. The PCU would have primary responsibility for project supervision, monitoring and
evaluation activities, for the appraisal of individual subproject requests and the corresponding transfer of
financial and technical resources to the beneficiaries. It would also be responsible for guiding project
implementation through annual planning, budgeting, and reporting. The PCU would monitor progress
through the project MIS, beneficiary assessments and ex-post/impact analysis and generate and review
internal quarterly reports measuring progress against performance indicators specified in the Orientation
Manual. Twice a year, the PCU would prepare and furnish to the Bank a detailed Project Implementation
Report on: (i) the general status of the project; project administration, organization and management; (ii)
achievements, problems and recommended actions; (iii) tables of input, output, outcome, and impact
indicators; (iv) status of disbursements and status of legal covenants. These reports and the results of the
corresponding annual assessment and ex-post evaluation would provide the basis for the preparation of
each subsequent year's Annual Operating Plan which would be discussed and agreed with the Bank and
which would include: objectives, activities, costs, indicators, implementation schedule and an indicative
procurement plan.
Project Annual Implementation Reviews. The project is expected to require extensive and close supervision
by the Bank, especially during the first two years. The supervision calendar would include a minimum of
four missions a year, for the first two years, one of which would be a joint Annual Implementation Review
with FONAPAZ. It is estimated that supervision would require at least 20 staff weeks per year during the
first two years. In addition to project management, skills required for supervision would include
anthropology, environment, health, information technology and communications sciences, among other
disciplines.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation: To ensure that the project is achieving its objectives in a timely and
efficient manner and that relevant infornation is available to adjust processes, strategies and use of
resources during implementation and for future investments, monitoring and evaluation would be the
leaniing system of the project measuring both processes and outcomes. Annual ex-post evaluations of
completed subprojects and beneficiary assessments would be used to measure overall performance and
develop recommendations for the future. Process Indicators: Initial capacity level and development during
project implementation of participating beneficiary organizations. Outcome Indicators: (i) number of
subprojects financed each year, per category (infrastructure, social) and project type (road, water, school);
(ii) number of beneficiary communities, families, and women beneficiaries; (iii) number and type of
technical assistance and training events (including for women); (iv) number of community organizations
formed and functioning satisfactorily according to a set of criteria specified in the Orientation Manual; (v)
sustainability of subprojects (financial and organizational) as measured by the number of maintenance
committees formed and functioning, cost recovery systems m operation, successful delegation to a line
ministry, etc.). The annual ex-post evaluations/beneficiary assessments would include physical audits of a
sample of Community Subprojects, with the size of the sample and terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank; project funds would be set aside for this purpose and the recommendations and lessons learned of the



Project Appraisal Docuenit                                                          Page 7
Contiy: Guatela                                             Reconstruction and Local Dewlopment Project
annual exercises incorporated into the Annual Operating Plan for the following year.
Povert= Impact Evaluation. A baseline and control group would be established in year 1 of the
implementation of the project after effectiveness and a random sample survey of representative subproject
types conducted in year 4 to measure the impact of subproject investments on selected socio-economic
indicators, such as income generation activities, health, education and migration, access to water, health,
school enrollment, travel time to markets, schools and clinics. Differentiation by ethnicity and gender would
be taken into account. The Borrower shall not later than June 30, 2002 present a report, acceptable to the
Bank, containing the results of the random survey.
Procurement:  Procedures for Community Participation in Procurement (local shopping and direct
contracting) are expected to be the principal forms of procurement used because of the small size of the
Community Subprojects, the high level of community participation in project execution, operation and
maintenance, and the dispersed and remote location of many of the communities in the project area. A
small fleet of vehicles and MIS equipment for the PCU (4x4 vehicles, motorcycles and basic computer
equipment) would be procured using LIB; goods other than those to be procured under LIB and under
Community Subprojects would be procured through NCB and local or international shopping, as
appropriate. The project Orientation Manual would include procurement procedures and standard bidding
documents acceptable to the Bank.
Accounting. financial reorting and auditing arrangements: The Bank has assessed the financial
management of FONAPAZ and has concluded that the Fund is adequately staffed at the central level to
carry out its current functions and has adequate accounting systems, including annual financial audits by
an external auditing firm. As a condition of loan effectiveness, as evidenced by subprojects, the Bank
would require the establishment of a computerized financial-management system for the project, at the
PCU, and the establishment of procedures to operate and maintain it during project implementation in order
to prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank. Additionally, the project would include
technical assistance and training for staff in FONAPAZ headquarters to strengthen their financial
management systems. An independent external auditor acceptable to the Bank would be contracted to
perform annual financial audits of the project following international auditing procedures; auditing reports
would be presented to the Bank no later than 4 months after the close of each fiscal year. The audit would
include all project accounts including the Special Account and Statements of Expenditures. A multi-year
contract would be sought to ensure continuity in the audit and financial control processes and to avoid
delays in the preparation and submission of audit reports to the Bank. The Bank's Financial Accounting
and Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH) published January, 1995, would be used by the auditors
in accordance with current Bank guidelines.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Some of the alternatives considered in the course of identifying the project in situ included a supplement to
the FIS for work targeted specifically to the San Marcos and Huehuetenango areas; financing a parallel
project with IDB, and using FODIGUA (the Indigenous Peoples Development Fund) as a counterpart.
Inplementing the proposed community-based approach through FIS was considered inappropriate as it
would further strain its institutional capacity and operating procedures.  Implementation through
FODIGUA was also rejected due to its limited capacity to effectively reach isolated indigenous rural
conmmunities. Parallel financing of the IDB project in northern Huehuetenango and extending its target
area to San Marcos was rejected because working with two isolated populations, with heterogeneous
economic systems and ethnic groups, and separated by great distances from each other would have
rendered project implementation unmanageable.
FONAPAZ was selected as the counterpart because of its mandate and jurisdiction over ZONAPAZ; its



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page S
CoumtY: Guatemala                                            Reconstuction and Local Development Project
implementation track-record; its credibility with the local communities and mayors, particularly with the
indigenous groups; and its unstructured, flexible and dynanic set up which permits the introduction of
alternative methodologies. FONAPAZ demonstrated its commitment to the project concept during the
initial stages of project identification and preparation when it assumed responsibility for the organization of
consultations with the beneficiaries, mayors, NGOs, the Maya Elders, and has continued to support it ever
since.
2. Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Secor Iss e                        Pro                                                        590
........  .  ... .. .. ...... ........ .... . . . ..........  . . .. ......... . .. ........  .........
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Expansion of Education coverage    Basic Ed. Reform Project (US$33m)    Recently Effective     NA
Expansion of Education coverage    Basic Education (US$30m)                   S                 S
Social Infrastructure Rehabilitation  Social Investment Fund (US$20m)         S                 S
Road construction/rehabilitation   Rural and Main Roads (US$50m)       Not yet Effective       NA
Improving local access to credit   Rural Financing project             Planned                 NA
Institutional Strengthening        Judicial Reform project             In Preparation           NA
Rehabilitation of Primary and      Secondary and Regional Roads Project       S                S
Secondary Roads                    (US$25m)
Other development agencies
Community Development Project      DECOPAZ (IDB, US$50m)               Ongoing
Social Infrastructure Rehabilitation  Rural Development (KfW, US$7m)   Ongoing
Community Development Project      Canadian Government (US$9m)         Ongoing
Rural Roads Rehabilitation         Spanish Government (US$7m)          Planned
Roads Rehabilitation/Modernization  IDB (US$100m)                      Ongoing
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactoiy), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has considerable experience to draw on for the design of this project. The rural development
projects in Northeast Brazil and Social Investment Fund projects in Peru, Bolivia and Ecuador cite the
importance of decenalization of investment decision-making from central to local governments, as a
stimulus to efficient project administration. Participation of the beneficiaries in the selection, design and
imnplementation of subprojects generates ownership and a willingness to share responsibility for operations
and maintenance. A high degree of autonomy protects the project selection process from political
interference. A cadre of highly qualified professional staff and accountability mechanisms which include
well-defined project appraisal criteria, transparent procedures, and regular project supervision, operational
and financial audits contribute to the success of these projects. This project uses a negative list of eligible
investments that would significantly widen the choices that beneficiaries can make. Additionally, through
the use of participatory methodology, the beneficiaries would play a major role in investment decisions,
allocation of resources and in management and sustainability of the subprojects. The project also builds on
existing practices of local organizations and on traditional mechanisms for participatory decision-maling.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 9
Country: Guatemala                                          Reconstruction and Local Development Project
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The project originated in the process of Bank local consultations with stakeholders in September, 1996;
subsequently and at the .xquest of FONAPAZ, several Bank missions surveyed the project area and
conducted beneficiary cornultations with the local population. In close cooperation with FONAPAZ, a
project concept was developed. The proposed community-based approach and target municipalities were
discussed and agreed with the Guatemalan Government in July, 1997. During subsequent missions, the
Bank discussed and agreed with FONAPAZ, the methodology, and operational and financial arrangements
for the project. FONAPAZ has appointed a full-time coordinator and a preparation team for the project
and allocated financial and staff resources to carry all necessary preparation activities, including
development of the Orientation Manual, project monitoring indicators and piloting of the PCU in San
Marcos.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank support helped identify the populations most critically in need and provided valuable information on
living conditions, social and cultural norms via a comprehensive Social Assessment. Additionally, with
PHRD support, the Bank has played an important role in developing and financing instruments for the
social and economic assessment of the beneficiaries, like the Indigenous Peoples Profile, and assisting the
Borrower to design the project. The innovative approach in design reflects the composition of the Bank
team, which included economists, anthropologists and sociologists, engineers, STE specialists from various
Bank-financed projects and municipal, NGO, rural development, environmental and health specialists.
Individual contributions were also enhanced by the presence of local, regional and international team
members and a high degree of cooperation among the various Bank teams working in Guatemala.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
L  Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$   million; ERR=  % L1 Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
1  Other: Community Demand
The demand-driven nature of the project implies that communities would determine the nature and scope of
each subproject funded. Accordingly, neither benefits nor costs can be completely identified ex ante.
Consequently it is not possible to estimate an ex ante overall interal economic rate of return for the project
nor individually for the variety of potential subprojects. Subprojects intended to be funded under the
proposed project would, in general, be sirnilar to those subprojects funded and completed by FONAPAZ
since 1991. Therefore, the experience and results of an ex-post evaluation of a sample of completed
subprojects in FONAPAZ's portfolio would be examined before project effectiveness and the findings
incorporated into the Orientation Manual for the project, as internal rates of return and other parameters
for subprojects likely to be financed are not expected to differ greatly. During project implementation,
Bank supervision will focus on improving the economic evaluation of subprojects and assisting to develop
useful economic rules of thumb or easily applied criteria that would help to differentiate among competing
investments.
2. Financial (see Annec 5): NPV=US$ N/A      million; FRR= N/A %
The project would finance social and economic infrastructure rehabilitation and construction and services,
training, promotional and institutional development activities. As a condition for approval, each subproject
would be required to have a cost recovery, sustainability and/or operations and maintenance plan
(whichever is applicable) and an agreed plan for beneficiary contributions to the project in the form of
labor, materials, cash or other in-kind contributions. This plan would aim at ensuring sustainability after
project completion. These arrangements would be assessed as part of the overall evaluation of each
subproject.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 10
Country: Guatemaa                                           Reconstruction and Local Deveopment ProJect
Fiscal impact: The amount and availability of counterpart funds has been reviewed and found satisfactory.
FONAPAZ does not receive line item budgetary allocations from the Central Government, instead it
receives total program allocations, which in turn is able to disburse as needed during implementation.
3. Technical:
Technical criteria exist for the main types of subprojects expected, based on existing norms from the
respective public agencies to ensure technical quality, coherence and compatibility. These criteria would be
incorporated in FONAPAZ's Orientation Manual (appraisal guidelines) for the project. Technical criteria
for subproject appraisal would be developed by qualified technical staff in the PCU and consultants hired
as needed by FONAPAZ to review, update and/or expand the criteria as needed.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agency: FONAPAZ
A FONAPAZ field project coordinating unit (PCU) in situ would assume the role of facilitator of technical
and investment resources to the beneficiaries for their Community Subprojects; and be responsible for the
execution of the capacity and institution building components (Components B and C of the project) and for
the overall management of the project. The beneficiaries themselves would manage contracting of
Community Subprojects, supervise their execution or execute the projects themselves (Component A).
Technical assistance, major infrastructure and other technically complex subprojects would be closely
supervised by the PCU and contracted out to qualified NGOs and/or the private sector, which has provided
evidence of being capable and competitive in Guatemala.
b. Project management: PCU in situ
Although FONAPAZ is receiving significant support from the international community for integrated rural-
development and productive subprojects and considerable government funding has been provided for small-
scale social and economic infrastructure and services to communities in the ZONAPAZ area, all of these
programs have been working in parallel and the arrangement showed diseconomies of scale. A more
integrated and efficient organization is now being established with the help of an experienced international
consulting firm which is helping FONAPAZ develop an adequate management system for its proposed
portfolio of poverty-targeted infrastructure subprojects, as well as pilot efforts in micro-credit and
productive subprojects. With the establishment of a project coordinating unit (PCU) in situ, competent
management and staff, an Orientation Manual suitable for the project needs, close cooperation with line
ministries and existing programs at the local level, staff training, and the channeling of technical and
financial resources to beneficiary organizations, FONAPAZ should be able to carry out its responsibilities
with regard to this project. Infonnation generated by the ex-post evaluation would be used to identify
economic analysis methodologies to be tested during project execution.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 11
Country: Guatemala                                          Reconstruction and Local Development Project
5. Social:
A comprehensive Social Assessment was carried out between December, 1996 (pilot) and April, 1997 by a
team of Bank social science consultants (an Anthropologist, a Social Psychologist and an expert in
municipal government) with the support of FONAPAZ, mayors, and the municipal governments. There
were also consultations with representatives of each community; these representatives were chosen in open
fora by their respective communities. A complete Participatory Rural Appraisal (including Diagnosis and
Needs Assessment) was necessary to make up for the absence of current data. Moreover, in an effort to
comply with the terms of the Peace Accords, a "participatory" approach was mandated in the decision
making process, needs assessment and prioritization by the stakeholders. Information was also collected on
potential beneficiary organizations, decision-making dynamics, and degree of participation and ownership
of project formulation, planning, implementation and subproject maintenance activities in the region.
Annex 11 contains an Executive Summary of the SA.
Since the project aims at improving the living conditions of the population in an integrated manner, the
diagnostic workshops included all levels of stakeholders (men, women, community leaders, health and
education staff and volunteers, traditional and modem authorities and representatives of the private sector)
who play a part in the social, economic, cultural and political life of the target area. A needs assessment
was made with the use of focus groups and town meetings which encouraged the promotion and sharing of
opinions, concerns, preferences and choices.
6. Environmental Assessment:      Environmental category LZ A    3 B   LI C
Justification/Rationale for category rating: The project would have no significant environmental risks. All
subprojects would be subject to environmental assessment criteria as part of their technical evaluation and
be required to meet impact mitigation measures to be eligible for financing. FONAPAZ's Orientation
Manual for the project would specify the criteria and mitigation measures to be adopted for each type of
subproject. Subprojects involving involuntary resettlement or subprojects that would contribute to the
contamination or alteration of water flows of international waterways would not be eligible for financing.
Environmental Assessment Procedures. Within the PCU there would be an Environmental Assessment
Specialist, with qualifications and Terms of Reference, acceptable to the Bank; who would be charged with
the quick response EA function. Beneficiary organizations who submit sub-projects to FONAPAZ would
be required to fill out the project planning checklist that is to be used as a guide. The checklist would draw
attention to environmental issues and encourage consideration of potential environmental impacts. In the
event that the proposed project has potential environmental impact, the EA specialist would review the
project and recommend actions for the beneficiary organizations and/or the Borrower to complete, with the
participation of the municipalities: (i) an analysis of a project's impact on the environment, and a
methodology for identifying and predicting these impacts; (ii) a discussion of options available to mitigate
adverse impacts and shape the project to suit its environment, and an analysis of the trade-offs involved in
choosing between the alternative actions; (iv) an overview of gaps or uncertainties in the information.
Status of any other environmental studies: The Bank has reviewed the environmental evaluation criteria
proposed for the project and is providing technical assistance to update procedures such as environmental
classification and comnmunity participation in the environmental assessment process to meet Bank standards
and guidelines for inclusion in the Orientation Manual. Capacity building activities would include
community-based orientation of beneficiaries to environmental issues and staff training in the use of
environmental assessment criteria and community education activities.
Local groups and NOOs consulted: Local governments, local organizations and representatives from
individual and organized beneficiaries in 8 of the 16 target municipalities (approximately 60% of the
estimated target population)



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 12
Country: Guatemala                                           Reconstruction and Local Devewpment Project
7. Participatory approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Preparation          Focus groups, consultations and interviews with community representatives in
the target area.
Implementation       Local communities would propose subprojects for financing, have access to
resources for pre-investment and technical assistance if needed, manage
resources allocated for the individual subprojects. The capacity and
strengthening component will be carried out by FONAPAZ.
Operation           The beneficiaries would be responsible for the allocation of resources for their
subprojects and the execution of subprojects and their operation and
maintenance.
b. Intermediary NGOs:
Preparation          Interviews and meetings with local NGOs in the target area.
Implementation      Would provide technical assistance to the beneficiaries and local governments
Could also participate as contractors if they win bids.
Qperation            The beneficiaries would select implementing organizations and manage their
contracts.
c. Local Government:
Preparation          Workshops and interviews with mayors in the target area.
implementation       Would have access to resources for institutional strengthening and capacity
building.
Operation           Would supervise resources allocated by FONAPAZ for their institutional
strengthening and contract the provider.
d. Other Donors:    IDB and KfW were consulted. Project was discussed with the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA); the Japanese Government agencies
JEXIM and OECF, and representatives of the European Union (EU) in
Guatemala.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Subproject sustainability would be addressed through the high level of beneficiary participation in the
selection, formulation, execution, operation and maintenance of the individual subprojects. Project
sustainability would be obtained through the transfer of technical know-how to the beneficiaries and the
municipal governments, in the formulation of community-based subprojects and in the identification and
ma nagement of financial resources to implement, operate and maintain them. The subproject investments
and technical assistance resources financed under this project would serve as means for the transfer of
know-how to the beneficiaries after the project is completed. Additionally, the project itself will pilot -
test a self-development model that could be replicated elsewhere in Guatenala and become the primary
instrument of intervention for FONAPAZ in rural poverty alleviation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 13
Country: Guatemala                                                    Reconstruction and Local Development Project
2. Critical Risks (reflecti4 assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
i-E  iEi-E E i.E  E    Ei-EEiEE. .-. ............   ...............   ...........-.E.-.  -i........ -.i....... ...     ...- .i... -E   E   .. . . . .. .. . .. . .. . . . ..
iS.D S E E-iE  Ri -.E ..HiE- iE  i-f--FE -.EE iE ............................. f -.E -.H . -.fE- E.. . . . . . .- . . . . . .. . .. .. -. .-. .-..... Xi . .. . .-, .., . ,. ., ., . . . ........................ww-.
: ~       ~~~                      ~    ~ ~ ~ . . ..                                   ......   ... 
Annex 1. cell "from Outputs to Objective"
GOG cumbersome procedures with regards to           MR   During preparation FONAPAZ obtained an exemption from
legal recognition and decentralization of financial        centralized procedures required for beneficiaries to handle
resources to beneficiary organizations.                    public funds and obtainjuris personae (legal recognition).
Beneficiaries would be able to request and obtain a
government's account for managing public funds at the
Departmental Capital of San Marcos and legal recognition
would now be awarded by the Departmental government.
Local government technical capacity to manage       MR   Project would provide resources to strengthen local capacity,
resources is weak.                                         training, and a project implementation mechanism that would
minimize this weakness. Needs assessments have been
conducted during preparation and capacity building activities
are already under way.
Annex 1. cell "from Components to Outputs"
Deterioration of local natural resources and/or     MR    Project would utilize environmental impact controls m the
negative impact from subprojects.                          evaluation of subprojects, require mitigating measures in the
execution of subprojects and provide training in natural
resource management and prevention of environmental
degradation to the beneficiaries and their local governments.
Key project activities would be coordinated with harvest
Interference of internal migration in project       NR    times which are the reason for internal migration.
implementation activities.
Incapacity or mismanagement in the use of funds    NR    Project would provide resources for technical assistance and
by beneficiaries.                                          capacity building on accounting and administrative
procedures. Audits would be conducted as part of subproject
monitoring and evaluation using annual ex-post evaluations
of a sample of subprojects.
Lack of NGO or contractor availability to satisfy    NR    FONAPAZ would organize periodic public infonnation
demand for services.                                       campaigns locally and nationally to advertise the project and
attract NGOs and contractors to the area.
Negative reaction from adjacent iocalities not      MR   Would be addressed by coordinating with other projects and
eligible for the program and frorn Congress                complementary investments from other donors and
because of the limited selection of beneficiary            FONAPAZ.
municipalities
REsk. Rat-in,g., -H,(High, Risk), S (Substantial Ris), M (Modest Risk),N(Negligible.or.Low .Risk)
-Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 14
Country: Guatemala                                           Reconstruction and Local Development Project
3. Possible ControversialAspects:
Borrower's choice of participating municipalities may be questioned by the opposition in Congress. Public
outcry about mounting external debt may also affect the discussion in Congress. Perception of political
maneuvering by the party in government, at the local level, may also adversely impact initial participation
during project implementation.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions of Negotiations: There are no conditions of negotiations.
2. Conditions of Effectiveness:
*   An Orientation Manual, acceptable to the Bank has been approved by the Borrower..
*   A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) in the project area has been established and staffed with technical
specialists to include, environmental, social organization, information technology and others, with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.
* A computerized accounting and financial management system for the project has been established--as
an integral part of the project MIS, including procedures for its operation and maintenance during
implementation acceptable to the Bank.
*   Borrower has adopted a format, acceptable to the Bank, to prepare its financial statements
*   The Annual Operating Plan for 1999 acceptable to the Bank has been furnished to the Bank.
* Borrower has furnished to the Bank a report, satisfactory to the Bank, containing the results of
FONAPAZ's latest ex-post evaluation of its ongoing projects.
3. Other:
*   The Borrower would provide the necessary counterpart funds to cover its share of the investment
subprojects.
*   Furnish semi-annual Project Implementation Reports acceptable to the Bank.
*   Conduct joint Annual Implementation Reviews with the Bank.
*   Furnish Annual Operating Plans acceptable to the Bank.
*   A signed contract between the beneficiaries and FONAPAZ would be required before disbursements
can be made on individual community subprojects.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. 1X] Not applicable.
[3 The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. Agreed at Negotiations, will be ready by Effectiveness
3 The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
LI The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
•   An Orientation Manual and Training Plan
* A Project Coordinating Unit
*   A computerized Financial-Management System
*   An Annual Operating Plan for CY1999
*   The results of an ex-post evaluation of completed subprojects
*   Format for Financial-Management and Project Audit reports acceptable to the Bank



Project Appaisal Document                                                                            Page 15
Country: Guatemal                                                       Reconstrucdon and Local Devlopment roject
L Compliance with Bank Policies
53   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Rafael              E                                Juliana Weismann, co-Task Manager
Xavier  o, Acting Sector Director                       Donna Dowsett-Coirolo, Country Director



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 16
Country: Guatemala                                           Reconstruction and Local Development Projed
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Guatemala: Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Narrative Summary          Key Performance             Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions and
Indicators                Supervision                   Risks
CAS Objectives                                                                  (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
(i) Build Social Cohesion    Indicators: Participation by   Project monitoring,  Assumptions: Active
and Strengthen            vulnerable groups in local    beneficiary surveys to assess  beneficiary participation,
Participatory Decision    capacity-building activities   quality of targeting, access   high capacity for self-
Processes; (ii) Reduce    and subprojects; satisfaction  to the program, use of  organization, ability to build
Poverty.                  of unmet basic needs of poor  transparent procedures for    consensus and work together
communities.              the selection of subprojects;  in a relatively short time
technical quality and      span, availability of legal
financial performance of  mechanisms to support
subprojects.              beneficiary participation.
Risks: Factionalism and
political manipulation at the
local level and above.
Project Development                                                             (Development Objectives
Objectives                                                                      to CAS Objective)
Improve living standards  Beneficiary participation,  Project Coordinating Unit    Assumptions: Availability
and self-development in 16   number of communities   (PCU) monitoring and       of adequate technical
municipalities in San     organized to implement and   beneficiary assessments to    resources, transparent
Marcos and Huehuetenango  sustain subprojects.       determine levels of        procedures for project
through support for the   Number, quality, cost and    participation in program,  identification, appraisal and
planning, execution and   variety of subprojects.    satisfaction of beneficiaries   selection, rapid flow of funds
maintenance of small-scale   Participation of women and   with projects implemented,   to communities, adequate
social, economic and      indigenous populations.    quality and economic cost of  support for projects in the
cultural projects.        Evidence of improved       projects approved, adequacy  form of training in
earnings potential, increased  of project supervision during  operations and maintenance.
school enrollment and clinic  implementation, use of
attendance, access to water,  subproject facilities and  Risks: Low absorptive
decreased travel time to  services.                  capacity of local institations,
markets and other centers of                         difficulties in reaching
social and economic activity.                        consensus among
beneficiaries, insufficient
Number and type of training   PCU monitoring and      coordination between and
Strengthen the capacity of   events, local governments    beneficiary assessments to    among other agencies,
local governments and local  and community           measure beneficiary        projects and programs in the
community organizations to  organizations involved in  "ownership" of subprojects,  area.
address the most critical  project operations and   local government and other
needs of the populations  maintenance of completed    organizations commitment to
they serve.               subprojects. Quantity and    projects financed, and
quality of other resources    lessons learned in the course
and co-financing identified    of project identification,
and obtained locally.     design and implementation.



Projed Appraisal Document                        Annex 1                                           Page 17
Country: Guatemala                                                         Reconstruction and Local Development Projed
Project Outputs                                                                 (Outputs to Development
Health                                                                          Objectives)
Improved access to services, Number, quality and variety   Health and nutrition data
with an emphasis on       of health and nutrition    collected at the local level,    Assumptions: Availability
preventive health care and    programs formed under the   ex-post evaluations and  of adequate technical
nutrition through MOH     project. Beneficiary       beneficiary assessments,   resources to be mobilized,
Primary Health Care       participation and use of   impact evaluation.         quick flow of funds to the
programs.                 health and nutrition services                         communities, adequate
offered, service providers,                          response from the program
equipment and operating                              to beneficiary needs,
budgets assured.                                     coordination with sector
projects and policies.
Risks: Low municipal
absorptive capacity,
difficulties in reaching
consensus among
beneficiaries, lack of
coordination with other
agencies, projects and
programs in the area, low
ministerial presence.
Water and Sanitation
Greater coverage and better  Number, quality and variety   Ongoing project monitoring,
quality through improved  of subprojects. Beneficiary   beneficiary surveys and ex-
infrastructure, training,  participation and satisfaction  post evaluation of
hygiene, and prevention of   with the program; subproject  subprojects.
contamination. Protection of  sustainability.
and a more rational use of
water resources through
introduction of resource
protection and management
practices at the local level
Education
Improved access to state  Number of parent           Ongoing project monitoring,
services, including       associations formed and    beneficiary surveys and ex-
community-run, bilingual,   participating in the     post evaluation of
multi-grade schools       PRONADE program;           subprojects.
(PRONADE), vocational    number and type of
schools with training     vocational, cultural and non-
programs relevant to the  traditional school programs
local labor market.       financed.
Programs on cultural history
and local indigenous
languages. Repair, improve
and expand infrastructure.



Project Appraisal Document                       Annex I                                            Page IS
Country: Guatemala                                                         Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Supnort for Income
Generating Activities:
Improve human resource    Number and type of training   Ongoing project monitoring,
capacity for production and   grants/activities financed;    beneficiary surveys and ex-
commerce. Facilitate access  number and type of      post evaluation of
to micro-credit           cooperatives and           subprojects.
Improve management and    associations formed or
conservation of natural   assisted; number and type of
resources. Create/improve   resulting productive projects
conditions for self-      and/or initiatives.
sufficiency and generate
new income earning
opportunities. Facilitate
access to markets and urban
centers, information services
and know-how
Capacitv Building and
Institutional Strengthening
Improved effectiveness of
beneficiary organizations  Sustainability of beneficiary   Ongoing project monitoring
and local governments in  organizations, co-financing   through the existing MIS,
identifying, planning,    of subprojects; number and   and upgraded beneficiary
executing and finding    type of subprojects requested  surveys and ex-post
sources of funding for    and financed.              evaluation of subprojects.
subprojects.
Cultural Heritage:
Restoration of historic   Number and type of         Ongoing project monitoring,
documents, sacred and     subprojects financed.      beneficiary surveys and ex-
ceremonial sites of historic                         post evaluation of
value. Funding for                                   subprojects.
indigenous language
learning or dissemination
activities. Funding for the
compilation of the municipal
history and others.
Project Components:                                                             (Components to Outputs)
Community Subpro*ects:            US$31 .5m          Project preparation and    Assumption:
This component would                                implementation procedures   Implementation of legal and
finance small cultural, social                       as defined in the Orientation  regulatory mechanisms
or economic infrastructure                           Manual.                    governing beneficiary
subprojects (including                                                          management of public funds
equipment and technical                                                         through decentralized
services), prioritized,                                                         procedures.
formulated and managed by
the communities themselves.
Subprojects eligible



Project Appraisal Document                       Annex I                                           Page 19
Country: Guatemala                                                         Reconstruction and Local Development Project
for financing would have to                                                     Risks:
meet technical, financial,
econonmic, social and                                                           Delays in project
environmental criteria and                                                     implementation due to
not be included in the                                                          changes in disbursement
negative list of subprojects                                                    procedures required from
eligible for financing.                                                         beneficiaries (cuentadancia).
Reinstatement of local
development councils, their
structure or responsibilities,
during project
implementationl.
Institutional changes at
FONAPAZ.
Capacity Building   This          US$3.0m            Project implementation
component would finance                              procedures as defined in the
capacity building activities                         Orientation Manual.
for municipal governments
and beneficiary
organizations, as needed, in
the various aspects of
formulation, planning,
evaluation, financing, and
execution of development
plans and the resulting
subprojects.
Institution Building. This        US$3.Om            Procedures defined in the
component would finance                              Orientation Manual.
vehicles, computers and
other equipment of a
FONAPAZ project
coordinating unit (PCU), in
San Marcos, and its various
training, supervision and
monitoring activities,
communications materials
and campaigns; project
audits, ex-post evaluations
and a project impact
evaluation.               TOTAL COST USS37.5m



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 20
Country: Guatmala                                             Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Annex 2
Project Description
Guatemala: Reconstruction and Local Development Project
ComDonent A - Community SubDrojects US$31.5 million (total cost of component). This
component would finance small cultural, social or economic infrastructure subprojects (including
equipment and technical services), prioritized, formulated and managed by the communities themselves;
with a suggested maximum total cost per subproject of US$150,000.00 (including beneficiary
contributions). Subprojects eligible for financing would have to meet technical, financial, economic, social
and environmental criteria set out in the Orientation Manual, which includes a Negative List of subprojects
that are not eligible for financing. Based on consultations with the beneficiaries, subproject requests are
expected, but would not be limited to, the following areas:
Health: Improved access to basic health services through: (i) participation in the Ministry of Health's
SIAS model system (Sistema Integral de Atencion en Salud), which uses NGOs as intermediaries to
provide health services in community-based, decentralized projects; (ii) support for the strengthening of the
Primary Health Care system at the local level, through construction, rehabilitation and/or equipment of
health posts and other primary health care facilities in the project area; (iii) improved infant nutrition
through the introduction of experimental gardens (huertos maternos); and (iv) training for mothers in
alternative diets with local products.
Water and Sanitation: Greater coverage and better quality of potable water through: (i) improvement,
expansion or construction of rural disperse drinking water and sanitation systems; (ii) training in hygiene
and pollution prevention of water sources; (iii) technical assistance for the protection and more rational use
of water resources; (iv) training to operate and maintain water and sanitation systems.
Education: Improved access to public basic education services, particularly through: (i) the support of
parents associations (COEDUCAS) efforts to organize and run community-based, bilingual and multi-
grade schools within the PRONADE model of the Ministry of Education; (ii) construction, rehabilitation
and/or equipment of schools and other facilities for basic education; (iii) financing of vocational training
programs relevant to the local labor market; (iv) support for programs on cultural history and local
indigenous languages.
Support for Productive Activities: Construction and or rehabilitation of small access roads and other
roads not covered by the Bank's Rural and Main Roads Project, and training and other capacity building
activities to: (i) improve the local capacity for production and trade; (ii) obtain access to micro-credit; (iii)
improve the management and conservation practices of natural resources; (iv) promote favorable conditions
for the identification of income-generating activities and domestic and foreign markets for local products;
(v) training and technical assistance to access existing market information services; and (vi) know-how on
alternative productive activities relevant to the area.
Cultural Heritage: Restoration and/or conservation of: (i) historic documents, sacred and ceremonial sites
of historical value; (ii) funding for indigenous language learning or language dissemination activities; (iii)
funding for the compilation of the municipal history of the participating municipalities (Monografias) and
other types of cultural history.



Project Appraisal Document               Annex 2                                   Page 21
Country: Guatemala                                          Reconstruction and Local Development Project
ComDonent B - Capacitv Building US$3.0 million (total cost of component). This component
would finance capacity building activities for municipal governments and beneficiary organizations in the
various aspects of formulation, planning, evaluation, financing, maintenance and execution of subprojects
and in participatory planning (including themes such as social and gender sensitivity; facilitating
community and public meetings; evaluating participation in FONAPAZ programs and procedures;
principles of social responsibility, accounting and project management; municipal reform; community
involvement in design, contracting and construction of infrastructure subprojects; and appropriate
technologies) environmental concerns and subproject maintenance, as well as of beneficiaries in social
management, environmental concerns and the operation and maintenance of subprojects. It is expected to
improve technical and administrative capacity of the municipal technical units; improve the effectiveness of
the beneficiaries in identifying, planning, executing and finding sources of funding for subprojects.
Training and support would be provided by NGOs and private consulting firms, prequalified by
FONAPAZ, according to an annual training and support program developed by FONAPAZ based upon its
Annual Operating Plan. Contents of training (included in the Orientation Manual), as well as of tool kits
given to communities, have been determined within the scope of policies established by the respective line
ministries. NGOs charged with capacity building would also help to develop and publish suitable training
manuals as well as guidelines for routine management and subproject administration. Training would
include workshops, seminars, courses, production of manuals, tools and materials for subproject
maintenance.
Component C - Institution Building US$3.0 million (total cost of component). This
component would introduce and test innovative management methods to improve institutional response and
increase efficiency, communications materials and campaigns, staff training; and finance vehicles,
computers and other equipment for FONAPAZ's project coordinating unit (PCU) and its various
supervision and monitoring activities, including project financial audits, annual ex-post evaluations and a
project impact evaluation consisting of a baseline survey in year 1 of the project and a follow-up random
survey in year 4.
Institutional and Implementation Arraneements. In 1991 FONAPAZ was created with the
specific objective of addressing the priority needs of thousands of poor Guatemalan refugees who had fled
to Mexico and hundreds of others who had been displaced internally as a result of the civil conflict.
FONAPAZ was also given the mandate of creating favorable conditions for the development of peace,
providing sustainable growth opportunities for rural communities, and acting as a financial mediator to
benefit the population most affected by the armed conflict. This mandate was later amended to provide for
the establishment of a project executing unit which could serve as a vehicle for resource mobilization.
FONAPAZ's primary area of responsibility is the formerly war-tom area (ZONAPAZ), which comprises
the departments of Pet6n, Quiche, Huehuetenango, Totonicapan, Sololi, Chimaltenango, Alta Verapaz,
Baja Verapaz and San Marcos and includes large concentrations of populations living in extreme poverty
and vulnerable groups (women, children, indigenous people). During its first four years of existence,
FONAPAZ financed projects valued at a total of US$55.5 million.
FONAPAZ is an autonomous agency which reports to the Office of the President and has no finite
duration. Its primary role up to the middle of 1996 was as a financial intermediary which contracted out
about 75% of project implementation to local NGOs, UN agencies and private contractors. Because of the
emergency nature of many of the interventions, criteria for project selection, the project cycle, and
allocation of resources were not well-defined at the outset. Project monitoring and auditing efforts were
developed in 1997, when FONAPAZ worked intensively with Price Waterhouse. KfW also supported an
initiative to revise the operational manuals, strengthen the management information system, project
monitoring and financial management. During this calendar year (1998), FONAPAZ would undertake its
first ex post evaluation of completed subprojects and beneficiary assessment as part of its efforts to



Project Appraisal Document               Annex 2                                    Page 22
Country: Guatemala                                          Reconstruction and Local Development Projed
increase the effectiveness of its operations and ensure good targeting and full participation of community
members.
With the active participation of the beneficiaries, FONAPAZ has supported the relocation of the uprooted
population and the satisfaction of their basic needs (health, education infrastructure, productive activities,
employment and income generation, institutional strengthening and environment). In its first years of
operation most of the resources were directed to social investment projects, but gradually the role of
FONAPAZ has evolved into financing sustainable growth and integrated packages of social and economic
infrastructure projects covering the entire population of these areas. Until recently, funding came primarily
from government resources; today, FONAPAZ has a portfolio of external resources that include loans and
grants from OPEC, KfW, FIDA, BCIE and the Government of Japan, among others. Total investments to
date amount to US$119.5 million (includes both approved and completed subprojects) and support from
external sources for the next five years is expected to amount to US$242.3 million (includes loans/grants
under execution, planned, and in negotiations).
Proiect Coordination. A FONAPAZ field project coordinating unit (PCU) in situ would work under the
direction of FONAPAZ management, would assume the role of facilitator of technical and investment
resources to the beneficiaries for their Community Subprojects; and be responsible for the execution of the
capacity and institution building components.  It would be staffed with technical and financial-
administrative personnel with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank and would be provided
with adequate office technology, training, facilities and vehicles to conduct its work. The PCU would be
established and staffed before effectiveness and the roles and responsibilities of the staff, as well as
operational procedures for project implementation, would be specified in the Orientation Manual.
Proiect Launch.  After effectiveness the project would be launched in earnest with a social
communication campaign targeting the beneficiaries in the project area. The main objective of the
campaign would be to adequately inform the beneficiaries about the project objectives, methodology and
eligibility requirements and promote their active participation in the project. These would be presented and
discussed by PCU staff in open fora with the local governments and representatives of beneficiary
organizations in each of the participating municipalities; and project information materials in the local
indigenous languages and Spanish, specially designed for rural communities, would be amply distributed.
These would include an abridged version of the Diagnosis and Needs Assessment for each participating
municipality, a description of the project, eligibility requirements for beneficiaries and subprojects, and a
description of the project cycle and the technical and financial resources available at the PCU.
Proiect Implementation. The beneficiaries themselves organized in groups (comites) or associations
would be responsible for the identification and formulation of Community Subprojects and their execution,
operation and maintenance. To become eligible for participation in the project, they would need to select
these subprojects in open fora or provide evidence of significant participation by the beneficiaries in the
selection process, they would also need to obtain legal personality and be issued a Government account to
manage public funds (cuentandancia); arrangements have been made during project preparation to enable
the beneficiaries to do this locally in a simple manner. Additionally, technical assistance resources would
be available at the PCU to assist them in this process. Once the community groups are eligible they can
present project ideas or request the technical evaluation (including social, economic, financial,
environmental and other aspects) of subprojects already formulated; technical assistance resources would
be available at the PCU to help them in the formulation of subprojects or carry out the recommendations of
the technical evaluation, as appropriate. Subproject requests that have complied with the technical
evaluation criteria would then be eligible for funding.
Proiect Cycle for Community SubDroiects. The beneficiaries would manage contracting of community
subprojects, supervise their execution or execute the projects themselves. They would be provided with a



Project Appraisal Document               Annex 2                                   Page 23
Country: Guatemala                                          Reconstruction and Local Development Project
standard contract, legal advise and other technical assistance resources to assist them in the process. The
beneficiaries would have the freedom to establish the termis of each contract, including the number of
disbursements to contractors; and the communities or local governments receiving technical assistance or
training, would have overall responsibility for monitoring the activities within their mandate, all reporting
to the PCU on a quarterly basis as part of their eligibility criteria. Community groups and associations
would be required to present an operation and maintenance plan, including a budget, for each subproject
requested. Before disbursements can be made community groups and associations would also be required
to sign a subsidiary agreement with FONAPAZ to formalize the transfer of funds and specify their
obligations and accountability regarding their use. A total of two disbursements of investment resources
would be made for each subproject; the first one when the contract with FONAPAZ has been signed and a
Bank account for the community group has been established; the second one, when a supervisor from the
PCU or under contract by the PCU has verified in situ progress in the execution of the respective
community subproject(s). The proposed procedures for community participation would be tested before
effectiveness and included in the Orientation Manual; a Project Launch Workshop would be held near or
at effectiveness to cover other aspects of project implementation.
Monitorine and Evaluation Arrangements: To ensure that the project is achieving its objectives in a
timely and efficient manner and that relevant information is available to adjust processes, strategies and use
of resources during implementation and for future investments, monitoring and evaluation would be the
learning system of the project; impact would be measured both at the process level and at the outcome
level. This on information experience of the project would be discussed with the Bank and taken into
account in the annual operating plan. Process Indicators: participating beneficiary organizations and
local governments would be grouped into categories reflecting their initial capacity level and their
development during project implementation would be monitored and evaluated. Outcome Indicators: Five
key indicators have been selected against which successful implementation would be measured: (i) number
of subprojects financed each year, per category (infrastructure, social) and project type (road, water,
school); (ii) number of beneficiary communities, families, and women beneficiaries; (iii) number and type
of technical assistance and training events (including for women); (iv) number of community organizations
formed and functioning satisfactorily according to a set of criteria specified in the Orientation Manual; (v)
sustainability of subprojects (financial and organizational) as measured by the number of maintenance
committees formed and functioning, cost recovery systems in operation, etc. An ex-post evaluation based
on subproject samples and beneficiary assessments would be conducted annually; it would include physical
audits of a sample of community-based projects financed by FONAPAZ, with the size of the sample
acceptable to the Bank, following acceptable accounting norms and procedures; a minimum 2 percent of
the total project costs would be set aside for this purpose and the recommendations and lessons learned of
each annual exercise incorporated into the Annual Operating Plan for the following year.
Proiect Supervision. The PCU would have primary responsibility for project supervision, monitoring
and evaluation and for the appraisal of individual subproject requests and the corresponding transfer of
financial and technical resources to the beneficiaries. It would also be responsible for guiding project
implementation through annual planring, budgeting, and reporting. The PCU would monitor progress
through the project MIS, beneficiary assessments and ex-post/impact analysis and generate and review
internal quarterly reports measuring progress against performance specified in the Orientation Manual.
Twice a year, the PCU would prepare and furnish to the Bank a detailed Project Implementation Report
on: (i) the general status of the project; project administration, organization and management; (ii)
achievements, problems and recommended actions; (iii) tables of input, output, outcome, and impact
indicators; (iv) status of disbursements and status of legal covenants. These reports would provide the
basis for the preparation of each subsequent year's Annual Operating Plan which would be discussed and
agreed with the Bank and which would include: objectives, activities, costs, indicators, implementation
schedule and an indicative procurement plan.



Project Appraisal Document                          Annex 2                                              Page 24
Country: Guatenala                                                         Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Annual Proiect Implementation Reviews. The project is expected to require extensive and close
supervision by the Bank, especially during the first two years. The supervision calendar would include a
minimum of four missions a year, for the first two years, one of which would be a joint Annual
Implementation Review with FONAPAZ. It is estimated that supervision would require at least 20 staff
weeks per year during the first two years. In addition to project management, skills required for
supervision would include anthropology, environment, health, information technology and communications
sciences. Annual ex-post evaluations of completed subprojects and beneficiary assessments would be used
to measure overall performance and develop recommendations for the future.
Proiect Poverty Impact Evaluation. A baseline and control group would be established in year 1 of
the implementation of the project after effectiveness and a random sample survey of representative
subproject types conducted in year 4 to measure the impact of subproject investments on important socio-
economic indicators, such as income generation, health, education and migration, and consequently on the
quality of life of the beneficiary population. Differentiation by ethnicity and gender will be taken into
account. The Borrower shall not later than June 30, 2002 present a report, acceptable to the Bank,
containing the results of the random survey.
Prooosed Oreanizational Structure of the PCU in situ
PCU Coordinator
|Adrnistratve               _      _...........__.
Assistant
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .  ._.......... _.   1._.. .......
FRncialAdmin. Maer, 1        Facilitators: 4technkic  ISubproject Evaluators: rmuti-  Maragemert Infomation
accouting, 1 procuremnrt,  facililators, 4 canmrty       discipliry team of 4     Systens: 1 adinirstrator I
1 conclerge, 1 guardian, 2      facilitat..........ors_  _  _ .........................._._



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                    Page 25
Country: Guatemala                                                                                                               Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Guatemala: Reconstruction and Local Development Project
...    4iE.  i . fiE. R                                 ...... . ,  .,  ,.......... ..... .,...  .,,... .
- - - Pec:t,!Cmp: O                                                           L         ----  T. .al
.. EDiSiSiE ~~~~~~~. ..  EE.E  ....   E .... R  . 0. E   ....   EiiEi  R iR....E                        ....... ..  ...   ...... .. .... . 3 : .    ...   .... ..    ...    ...    .
.. AifT, , g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:                                                                     I,,  - .....,..,....l  g ,
a) Community Subprojects                                                                                             29.3                           2.0                     31.3
b) Capacity Building (Training)                                                                                       3.0                           0.0                        3.C
c) Institution Building (PCU)
(i) Staff training, financial audits, annual ex-post                                                             1.0                      1.0                          2.0
evaluations, and a project impact evaluation.
(ii) Equipment and vehicles                                                                                      0.0                           1.0                       1.0
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                                  33.3                            4.0                 37.3
Physical and Price Contingencies                                                                                  0.2                                                        (
T      I  F r o je c t   o   t   ~. .. .........-..................... ..................... .......... ............ . ......... ............. ...... . ..
:                                                                                                 :To X   r roj ect   Cost ::: -- : ::: : : ::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . .. . ..   .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .  . .. .  . . .. .



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 26
Country: Guatemala                                                     Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Annex 4
Economic Analysis
Guatemala: Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Methodology and Assumptions.
In terms of the counterfactual, the project would support, social, cultural heritage or economic infrastructure
investments which, -due to their public nature and/or lack of public funds (both central and local) are unlikely to be
undertaken in sufficient quantities by sector ministries or the private sector. Furthermore, while central, municipal
and community counterpart contributions would total 25 percent of all subproject costs, it is doubtful that, in the
absence of this project, the local governments and communities would be financially capable of amassing the
necessary investment required to fund a significant portion of these projects, either due to poor rural financial
intermediation or generally low assets levels. Also, resource efficiency would be improved through direct
community participation in the identification, selection and implementation of each subproject proposal.
The demand-driven nature of the project implies that communities would determine the nature and scope of each
subproject funded. Accordingly, neither benefits nor costs can be completely identified ex ante. As such, it is not
possible to estimate an ex ante overall internal economic rate of return for the project nor individually for the
variety of potential subprojects. Subprojects intended to be funded under the proposed project would, in general, be
similar to those subprojects funded and completed by FONAPAZ since 1991 in the formerly war-torn areas of rural
Guatemala. Therefore, the experience and results of an ex post sample of completed subprojects in FONAPAZ's
portfolio would be examinedibefore effectiveness and the results reflected in the evaluation criteria, contained in the
project's Orientation Manual, as internal rates of return and other economic parameters for subprojects likely to be
financed under the new project are not expected to differ greatly.
Complementarity among community subprojects makes a precise overall quantitative analysis (i.e., econornic lRR
calculation) difficult.  The synergy created from the interactive effects of several subprojects within any
municipality is difficult to capture and equally difficult to quantify. Similarly, spill-overs and spill-ins, in the form
of incremental benefits or costs which are unintended yet nonetheless result from the undertaking of the subproject,
must also be recognized in the economic analysis, but are both difficult to identify and quantify.
Community subprojects foster the creation of social capital. The demand-driven imperative of the subprojects
requires that communities identify and prioritize their most pressing needs. The Project Coordinating Unit to be
established under the project would assist the beneficiaries, local governments and local organizations to critically
examine subprojects proposals to confirm their feasibility and verify their compatibility with overall community
development objectives. These socially sustainable community organizations are an important element of social
capital formation. Members of the community are responsible for counterpart financing of each subproject, either
in cash, in-kind, in labor or all three. Qualitative recognition of these benefits is vital to a full understanding of the
economic impact of a given subproject. However, as in the case of complementarities, spillovers and spill-ins,
social capital is difficult to quantify within the framework of estimation of internal economic rates of return.
Economic Efficiency of Subprojects.
Infrastructure and social subprojects would be analyzed under the least cost, best alternative criteria. Several
aspects of project design help to ensure that infrastructure and social subprojects undertaken represent the least-
cost, best alternative. First, the demand-driven nature of each subproject permits scarce resources to flow where
they are most needed, thereby improving efficiency in the allocation. Community participation and coordination
with local governments and local organizations ensures that the chosen subproject is the best alternative for the
local community. Second, the use of standard technical designs, including cost parameters, for the most common



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 27
Country: Guatenala                                                   Reconstruction and Local Development Project
local community. Second, the use of standard technical designs, including cost parameters, for the most common
type of subprojects ensures that least cost models are adopted and decreases search and information costs by
providing communities with established patterns for initiating and completing a subproject. The PCU would
establish and maintain a data base with local and regional unit costs to assist the beneficiaries. Third, the
contracting procedures prescribed in the Orientation Manual require shopping or competitive bidding on the
majority of subprojects; the communities would solicit at least three bids for each subproject and subsequently
choose the least-cost bid. Experience has shown that unit costs tend to lower when communities/beneficiaries are in
charge of managing the resources, supported by unit cost control of the PCU, whether by local shopping or direct
contracting. Finally, annual ex-post evaluations (including economic evaluations) of an agreed sample of
subprojects would be conducted and their recommendations included in the semi-annual project implementation
reports and incorporated in the Annual Operating Plan for the following year. This evaluation form would be part
of the overall impact evaluation of the project, based on sample surveys and related methods, for which a
percentage of the total cost of the project would be set aside.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 28
Country: Guatemala                                                          Reconstruction and Local Development Projed
Annex 5
Financial Summary
Guatemala: Reconstruction and Local Development Project
(in US$ million)
Iniplerneztati00 Period        i 11::Ope  Tion .l Peid
- -.  . -.,  -, -. ,. - ,,--, .   .............. W>S                   a     M.. ...  .. .
1999     20       2_:     2 :002    200  .- 20       2- 0    2006    207    M200
Project Costs
Investment Costs               3       6       7.5      7.5      4.1      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs                1       2       2.5      2.5      1.4      0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3
Total                       4        8       10       10      5.5      0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IBRD                       75      75       75       75       75       0        0        0       0        0
Government
Central                    15       15       15       15      15       25       25       25      25       25
Local
User Fees/Beneficiaries       10       10       10       10      10       75       75      75       75       75
Total                      100      100     100      100      100      100      100     100      100      100
Main assumptions: Beneficiaries would demonstrate commitment and ownership of the projects by financing a significant
portion of the operation and maintenance of the investments, which would guarantee their sustainability. Central
government contributions which are subject to severe revenue-generating restrictions would be kept to a minimum and
cannot be expected to exceed the overall percentage of counterpart funding. The irnplementation period would be 4 years
with six additional months for disbursing on outstanding commitments.



Project Appraisal Docurnent                                                         Page 29
Country: Guatemala                                          Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Guatemala: Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Procurement
Procurement of works, goods and services as well as the contracting of consultant services would be
carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995, and revised in
January and August 1996 and September 1997), the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants (January 1997, and revised in September 1997), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan
Agreement; procurement arrangements are summarized in Table A. FONAPAZ would supervise all
procurement actions under the project, based on agreed procurement procedures defined in the Orientation
Manual and support community participation in procurement by granting resources to beneficiary
organizations (comites) to manage the procurement of works, goods and services (as provided in para. 1.1
of the Procurement Guidelines)for subprojects under procedures, specifications and contract packaging
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with Section III, Other Methods of Procurement (paragraph 3.15 of
the Procurement Guidelines, Community Participation in Procurement) of the Bank Guidelines. For
works and/or goods under Community Subprojects with a total cost of US$150,000 equivalent or more,
where the technical complexity of a Community Subproject, as determined by the technical evaluation,
warrants it or at the community's request, FON4PAZ would carry out the procurement of works, goods
and services, under standard contracts acceptable to the Bank. The Orientation Manual would include the
procurement procedures and standard bidding documents to be used in each case, including contracts to be
awarded on the basis of quotations. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
Procurement of Community SubDrolects. The project would finance integrated Community Subprojects
(small cultural, social or economic infrastructure projects, including the corresponding equipment and
technical services) such as the construction or rehabilitation of access roads, schools and health posts, rural
disperse water and sanitation projects and other subprojects requested by the beneficiaries and eligible for
financing according to criteria specified in the Orientation Manual, which would be procured as follows:
(a) Community Subprojects estimated to cost US$150,000 equivalent or more each, would be
procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) using standard bidding documents and contract
forms agreed with the Bank and specified in the Orientation Manual. Although FONAPAZ would be
responsible for carrying out procurement actions on these contracts on behalf of the Beneficiaries, the
Beneficiaries will be responsible for the implementation of the subprojects .
(b) Community Subprojects estimated to cost less than US$150,000 equivalent each, would be
awarded on the basis of mechanisms for community participation in procurement using three quotations--
up to an estimated aggregate amount of US$11.0 million equivalent and direct contracting of local
governments and/or other local organizations--up to an estimated aggregate amount of US$8.0 million
equivalent. The communities themselves would be responsible for procurement actions on these contracts
using procedures, specifications and contract packaging agreed with the Bank and specified in the
Orientation Manual. The subprojects would emphasize community participation in project execution and
the use of appropriate local technologies.
(c) Community Subprojects consisting exclusively of technical assistance and/or training (capacity
building activities) would be procured using Selection-Based-on-Consultant Qualifications (finns) and
individual consultants. FONAPAZ would be responsible for supervising the procurement actions on these
contracts.



Project Appraisal Document               Annex 6                                  Page 30
Country: Guateala                                         Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Procurement of Goods. The types of goods to be procured under the project would consist of goods not
included in the Community Subprojects; such as: training materials, guidelines and manuals, vehicles,
computer equipment, office and administrative equipment for the PCU.
a) Limited International Bidding (LIB) would be used for the procurement of vehicles and
computer equipment. FONAPAZ would be responsible for carrying out procurement actions on these
contracts.
(b) Contracts for goods not included in the Community Subprojects and estimated to cost
US$150,000 equivalent or more each, would be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
using standard documents and contracts agreed with the Bank and specified in the Orientation Manual.
FONAPAZ would be responsible for carrying out procurement actions on these contracts.
(c) Contracts for goods not included in the Community Subprojects and estimated to cost less than
US$150,000 equivalent each, would be procured through national or international shopping, from at least
three qualified suppliers, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million, with standard documents and
contract forms agreed with the Bank and specified in the Orientation Manual. FONAPAZ would be
responsible for carrying out procurement actions on these contracts.
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) located in situ would support subproject implementation.
FONAPAZ would contract an annual ex-post evaluation of a sample of subprojects which would include a
review of the application of procurement procedures. All Community Subprojects would be supported by a
technical proposal and budget which must be reviewed and approved by FONAPAZ before inviting bids.
The Standard Unit Prices System has recently been adopted by FONAPAZ and the Bank would review
use of this procedure during the Annual Implementation Reviews of the project. All Community
Subprojects would be subject to periodic supervisory visits by staff from FONAPAZ or independent
supervisors contracted by FONAPAZ as specified in the Orientation Manual.
Procurement of Technical Assistance. Trainine. ex-Dost Evaluations. Financial Audits and Proiect
Impact Evaluation. The consulting services would include technical assistance for the preparation of
communications materials and campaigns, manuals and guidelines, supervision, and evaluation of
FONAPAZ operations including annual ex-post evaluations of a sample of completed subprojects;
financial audits, a project impact evaluation, management information services and training or technical
assistance for FONAPAZ personnel, local governments and community participants in subprojects, under
the Capacity Building Component.
As mentioned above, consulting services would be procured following the Bank's Consultant Guidelines
and using standard contracts. The method of selection to be followed would be: (i) Selection-Based-on-
Consultant-Qualifications (firms) and individual consultants for communication campaigns, technical
assistance and training under the Capacity Building Component; (ii) Selection-Under-a-Fixed-Budget for
annual beneficiary assessments and ex-post evaluations; and (iii) Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS) for financial audits and the project impact evaluation and preparation of baseline data.
Expenditures for training as defined, would be made on the basis of administrative procedures, acceptable
to the Bank and included in the Orientation Manual.
Procurement Review. Prior review by the Bank would include: (i) procurement arrangements in
accordance with Appendix 1, paragraph 2 of the Bank Guidelines; (ii) all procurement by LIB; (iii) the
first two contracts for Community Subprojects equal to or above US$150,000 equivalent each year; (iv)
the first two contracts for Community Subprojects below US$150,000 each year, regardless of the amount
or nature; and (v) the first two contracts for goods using NCB and Shopping each year, regardless of the
amount. The balance would be subject to ex-post review by the Bank; and (vi) for consultants, the Bank



Project Appraisal Document               Annex 6                                  Page 31
Country: Guatemala                                        Reconstruction and Local Development Project
would review all terms of reference, as well as contracts over US$25,000 or more for individuals and
US$50,000 or more for firms. To facilitate this process, FONAPAZ would submit to the Bank, a plan for
the hiring of consultants with their terms of reference and estimated costs, as part of the Annual Operating
Plan for the following year.
Prior review of approximately 26% of the loan is expected under these arrangements. Although the level of
prior review would be relatively low, this would be compensated for in several ways: (i) as part of the
annual ex-post evaluations of subprojects, external auditors, contracted by FONAPAZ under the loan,
would conduct performance audits covering technical, environmental, managerial and procurement aspects
on a sample of sub-projects satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) audit of procurement aspects would include
physical audits and procurement procedures used, so that the Bank can judge whether procurement
implementation is satisfactory; (iii) the project information and monitoring system would be used to
compare costs of similar sub-projects in order to detect possible discrepancies which might indicate
procurement problems and the need for further analysis; accuracy of the data in the project information
system would be checked through the audits also; and (iv) Bank supervision missions would conduct
random reviews, including frequent field visits and reviews of procurement documentation. Additionally,
the systemic review of the first two contracts of each type each year would help monitor quality and
consistency in the application of Bank Guidelines and procurement procedures agreed for the project.
Efforts would be made for a procurement specialist to be part of the supervision missions which are
expected to be a minimum of 4 each of the first two years.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of about four years (plus six months to
disburse on outstanding commitments) to be completed by December 31, 2002. The project closing date
would be June 30, 2003 (six months after completion date).
Disbursements on subprojects would be made once the respective contract between the
beneficiaries and FONAPAZ has been signed and against the following categories of expenditure:
(a) Community Subprojects - Cultural, social or economic infrastructure integrated projects with
works, equipment and technical services included (75%/O);
(b) Goods - Goods not included in the Community Subprojects and vehicles and equipment for the
PCU (100% of foreign expenditures and 75% of local expenditures);
(c) Consultant Services - Including individual services, technical assistance for capacity building
not included in subprojects, subproject supervision and monitoring, beneficiary assessments and ex-post
evaluations (100%);
(d) Training - Per-diem, transportation, materials, and other expenses related to training (100%);
and
(e) Audits - Project financial audits by external auditors (100%).
Retroactive Financing:
Eligible expenditures not to exceed 10 percent of the loan amount, incurred before the date of the
Loan Agreernent but within 12 months of the date of signing of the Loan Agreement.



Project Appraisal Document                Annex 6                                   Page 32
Country: Guatemala                                         Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursements would be made on the basis of full documentation for all expenditures made under
contracts requiring prior review by the Bank, as indicated in Table B; and contracts whose value would be
raised above the prior review limits as a result of amendments. For all other expenditures, disbursements
would be granted against SOEs for which supporting documents would be maintained by FONAPAZ, and
be available to the Bank for review. All other disbursement requests would be fully documented as
indicated above. In addition, other technical and financial data regarding subprojects would be available
from a FONAPAZ data base.
Special account:
A Special Account would be opened in the Bank of Guatemala with an initial deposit of US$2.0
million, corresponding to about four months of expenditures under the project. All project disbursements to
the extent possible would be paid out of the Special Account. The special account would be replenished
monthly at the Borrower's request (but no less frequently than every three months), or whenever one-third
of the authorized amount has been withdrawn, whichever comes first. FONAPAZ would be responsible for
preparing withdrawal requests and in charge of the Special Account. Disbursement would be based on
Statement of Expenditures for all contracts. Documentation supporting SOEs would be retained by
FONAPAZ headquarters in Guatemala and made available for examination by Bank staff during project
supervision missions.



Project Appraisal Document                        Annex 6                                         Page 33
Country: Guatemala                                                    Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Estimated Loan Disbursements by Category and Procurement Method
(In Bank Fiscal Years and US$ million equivalent)
A"j-W"_tA:,.. ... ..   ' ..'.-.:......  ..........                             ...................- .  tC..  L' '..................
Annual Disbur~mens by   FY 99    F  00 F.Y. 01FY02;  FTY03E    In: -Mifin amta
-  ---s.re  ...i. - .--  --i-- .............   ....                                               ........... F  F--EE---S:. !Eg
Fiscal  Y ea         _  _   _   _ _ _  _  _  _  _    _ _ _  _   _  _  _of         T t l L an
Community Subprojecs        1.5        4.8       5.9        5.9       2.9         21.0       70.0%
NCB                                    (0.5)     (1.0)      (1.0)     (0.5)       (3.0)      (10.0%)
Community Procedures        (1.5)      (4.3)     (4.9)      (4.9)     (2.4)       (18.0)     (60.0%)
Goods                       1.0        0.4       1.0        1.0       0.6         4.0        13.3%
LIB (vehicles, equipment)   (1.0)                                                 (1.0)      (3.3%)
NCB                                    (0.25)    (0.25)    (0.25)    (0.25)       (1.0)      (3.3%/.)
Shopping                               (0.15)    (0.75)    (0.75)    0.35)        (2.0)      (6.6%)
Consulting Services         0.8        0.8       0.8        0.8       0.8         4.0        13.3%
Consultant Qualifications   (0.5)      (0.5)     (0.5)      (0.5)     (0.5)       (2.5)      (8. 3%)
QCBS, Fixed-Budget          (0.3)      (0.3)     (0.3)      (0.3)     (0.3)       (1.5)      (5.0%1.)
Unallocated                                                           1.0         1.0        3.3%
Cnnu4atiii:,:g'e D.#iabw                i i     : :: gse t Ii .3  ...7:::::: '  :4.: ' ,30.6  30.0
(A-s% of boan itoal)        (10!Zg A%):    (  E30%)    ( 5 6Et%)j (-- 84%i)   (100%) i(fosg      100%)   ______i_--EE:Si- i;i
Local Currency Account:
In addition to the Special Account in US dollars, FONAPAZ would create and maintain in their
accounting system a separate account for the counterpart funds needed for all payments anticipated for
each year of the implementation of the project. All project accounts would continue to be managed in
accordance with generally accepted international accounting standards, as confirmed by the annual
financial-management audits of the project during implementation.
Audits:
The government would contract independent auditors acceptable to the Bank to audit Project
Expenditures, the Special Account, the project accounts, and the SOEs, in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank. Certified copies of the audit reports would be furnished to the Bank
within 4 months after the close of the Borrower's fiscal year. The audit reports would include a separate
opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified SOEs. Auditors would review individual
contracts, ascertain compliance with the terms of contracts, inspect progress of works and reconcile the
physical progress with financial expenses incurred, and verify that procurement guidelines are being
respected.



Project Appraisal Document                        Annex 6                                         Page 34
Country: Guatemala                                                    Reconstruction and Local Devlopment Project
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
di  :6-:Wwww~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~(ncudn
..... .......                              .......... ..~ ~ ~ ~ c ntigen ies
.......L. .                                                    .....Other    .N.....
Commun&t SubDroiects                           3.96         23.44'                       27.4
Goods                              1.02         1.0          2.03                         4.0
Consultants Services
Technical Assistance                                         2.04                         2.0
Training                                                     1.5'                         1.5
Audits and Impact                                                           1.56           .
Evaluation
Total                  1.0          4~~~~~~~~A96  3GM                        374
Note: N.B.F. =Not Bank-financed.                                                       ..
1 Procedures for conmnunitY participation in procuirement in accordance with the Orientation Manual, including cormnunity
shopping (an estimated US$11 .0 million) and direct contracting (an estimated US$8.0 million); and Consultant
Qualifications for capacity building subprojects.
2Limited international bidding for vehicles and comPuter equipment for the PCU.
'International shopping for medical and agrcicltural supplies.
4 Consultant QUalifications and Fixed-bUdget fore-oteautos
'Administrative costs related to training.  re_oteantoS
6QCBS



Project Appraisal Document                                  Annex 6                                                   Page 35
Country: Guatemala                                                                  Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
.E igi ~~~~~~~~~~~......  i3.E.  igii.. E..............,,,i      g   .i.  . i  ...............'''.................... i i   '.i''.iiii'''ii'2' i
: -;::tlni 'tt.   --O'''','' '- ..   .....d !W.                                                                    .......'t,,rn ,
Communitv                            >US$150,000                          NCB                 First two contracts each
Subpro*ects                                                                                               year
<US$150,000                      Community               First two contracts each
Participation                       year
Procedures
Goods                                      All                            LIB                              All
(a) Vehicles and                     >US$150,000                          NCB                 First two contracts each
computer and software                                                                                     year
equipment
(b) Goods other than                 <US$150,000                       Shopping               First two contracts each
those under (a)                                                                                           year
Consultants Services
Technical Assistance                  >US$50,000                    Fixed-Budget,                            All
Consultant
Qualifications (firms)
>US$25,000               Individual Consultants                        All
Audits and hnpact                          All                           QCBS                                All
Evaluation
. . . . . .i. . .......Tota  value of contracs s                    i  p    r r.                U 8 m      n .  -  
gggtg:gtgg~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ :g;:gg  :g0  -  :ig -    tEid   ti   au :X    .t  £t tS ab e£t   p                 ......       



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 36
Country: Guatala                                                   Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Community Subprojects:                                    21.0                     75%
Small cultural, social or economic infrastructure
subprojects, including the corresponding
equipment and technical services, and technical
assistance subprojects
Goods: Vehicles and equipment for the PCU and              4.0              100% of foreign
goods not included in the Community Subprojects.                              expenditures
75% of local
expenditures
Technical Assistance:                                      2.0                    100%
Including communication materials and
campaigns, project monitoring and supervision
activities, capacity building activities not included
in the community subprojects, ex-post evaluations
and beneficiary assessments, and the project
impact evaluation.
Training:                                                  1.5                    100%
Expenses (other than those under technical
assistance) and materials for training under the
Project.
Audits                                                     0.5                    100%
Annual financial audits of the project
Unallocated:                                               l.0
f>a:;j;;;23 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... ...3                       ...??!i.. ..   ., i3 ; ''&g( 2?g



Project Appraisal Document                        Annex 6                                          Page 37
Comtry: Guatemala                                                     Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Guatemala: Reconstruction and Local Development Project
,   , ,   . .  ,   , .......... ..... E EE .... - - . . EEE.SiEE... -                      .. .. E i E .  EE... E   ....             .. . . . .-.   .. . .. .   ...   ...
A. Pwjec Budge (U$286 ,20O)                                 lanned-                  Actual
.. .. . J . _ ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..................... . . .   ............   2 iigE gEg.  . ..    ......... . SgE
.....   i  !  . .EEE 2iE6                  . . iE...  ..  .. .                 A.-'EEi
~~~~~~~~~~~~~... . ...........                              ...........   ............     ...   ............... - ..........   ........... -.......
B. Project Schedule                                        Planned                   Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                18 months                 14 months
First Bank mission (identification)                       12/1/1996                 12/9/1996
Appraisal mission departure                               2/09/1998                2/16/1998
Negotiations                                              2/20/1998                 5/25/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                              07/31/98                 1/10/1999
Prepared by: FONAPAZ
Preparation assistance: PHRD grants (TF025492 and TF025488)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Management Team:
Charles Griffin                                    Lead Specialist for Social Protection, LCSHD
Alain Coillou                                      Lead Specialist for Implementation, LCSHD
Ana-Maria Arriagada                                Country Sector Leader, LCSHD/LCC2C
Jose-Roberto Lopez-Calix                           Guatemala Bank Resident Representative, LCC2C
Sally Zeijlon                                      Guatemala Country Officer, LCC2C
Core Team:
Rafael E. Flores                                   Task Manager/Development Economist, LCSHD
Juliana Weismann                                   co-Task Manager/Sr. Operations Officer, LCSHD
Shelton Davis                                      Peer Reviewer/Sr. Sociologist, SDV
Julie Van Domelen                                  Peer Reviewer/SIF Specialist, HDD
Raimundo Caniinha                                  Rural Development Specialist, ESSD
Ximena Traa                                        Anthropologist, LCSHD
Mario Marroquin                                    NGO Specialist, ESSD
Steve Maber                                        Water & Sanitation Engineer, LCC2C
Martin Ochoa                                       Environmental Issues Specialist, LCSHD
Rafael Obregon                                     SIF Specialist, LCSHD
Sayra Cabrera                                      Municipal Issues Specialist, LCSHD
Marcela Tovar                                      Indigenous Issues Specialist, LCSHD
Andre Bessieres                                    Support for Productive Activities, LCSHD
Erasmo Vargas                                      Financial-administrative Issues. LCSHD
Karla McEvoy                                       Environmental Specialist, LCSHD
Marian Kaminskis                                   Social Assessment/Project Assistant, LCSHD
Sarah Quinn                                        Project Assistant, LCSHD
Reynaldo Pastor                                    Guatemala Country Lawyer, LEGLA
Maria Lucy Giraldo                                 Procurement Specialist, LCSHD
Fernando Vio                                       Primary Health Care Specialist, LCSHD



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 38
Country: Guatmala                                              Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Technical Support and/or Review:
Livio Pino                                      Financial Management Specialist, LCOAA
Michael Fowler                                  Country Disbursement Officer, LOAEL
Jaime Roman                                     Principal Procurement Specialist, LCOPR
Efraim Jimenez                                  Procurement Specialist, LCOPR
William Partridge                               Lead Social Development Specialist, ESSD
Juan Martinez                                   Social Specialist, ESSD
Florencia Castro-Leal                           Economist, PRMPO
Carlos Chamorro                                 Procurement, LCSHD
Luz M. Zer6n                                    Financial Management, LCOAA
Eveling Bermudez                                Cultural Heritage issues, ESDVP
Bank project teams working in Guatemala         Sector issues



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 39
Country: Guatemala                                           Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File*
Guatemala: Reconstruction and Local Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
*      Operational Manual
*      User Guide
*      Legal Agreement on exemption for "Cuentadancia"
*      Implementation Model
*      Proposal for the Project Coordinating Unit
*      Training and Capacity Building Strategy
*      Standard Contracts
*      Subproject Environmental Assessment Criteria
*      Proposal for quantitative and qualitative monitoring indicators
*      Procedures for legal recognition of beneficiary organizations
*      Legal basis for legal recognition of beneficiary organizations
*      PCU: project flows, organizational structure, staffing and job description, equipment, set-up and operating costs.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*      Institutional Assessment of FONAPAZ (April, 1996 - R. Rodriguez, A. Caracciolli, subsequently revised and
updated by various Bank missions).
*      Social Assessment (December, 1996 - April, 1997, X. Traa) - Including detailed Department-specific assessments
*      Enviromnental Assessment (April, 1997 - M. Ochoa, reviewed by the Bank) - "Manual del Sistema de Control
Ambiental de Proyectos"
*      Health Sector Assessment and Recommendations for Project Strategy (February, 1998 - F. Vio)
*      Procurement Assessment (February, 1998 - C. Chamorro, revised by M. L. Giraldo)
C. Other
FONAPAZ: Consultoria: Procedimientos Financieros Administrativos (Abril, 1997 - E. Vargas)
*      Documentos Basicos de la Comisi6n Nacional del Medio Ambiente de Guatemala (CONAMA)
*      Informe de Misi6n de Preparaci6n de Evaluaci6n al Fondo Nacional para la Paz (FONAPAZ) Arnoldo Caraccioli,
Rend Rodriguez Heredia y Consultores Extemos
*      "Ley de Proteccion y mejoramiento del Medio Ambiente de Guatemala"
*      "Ley de Consejos de Desarrollo"
*      "Perfil Ambiental de la Republica de Guatemala"
*      "Plan de Accion Ambiental de 1996"
*      "Diagnostico y politicas que afectan el sector forestal de Guatemala"
*      "Diccionario Geografico de Guatemala"
*      "Informe de Resultados de la Consultoria proporcionada a AIDEPAZ"
*      "Estrategia Nacional de Educacion Ambiental" (Source: CONAMA, Comision Nacional del Medio Ambiente, y el
Consejo de La Tierra (eci@terra.ecouncil.ac.cr)
*      Departamento de San Marcos, Caracteristicas Generales de Poblaci6n y Habitaci6n, Census  1994.
*      Atlas Hidrol6gico, Mapa Base de Cuencas y Rios de la Repiiblica de Guatemala (1976). Ministerio de Obras
Publicas, Instituto Geografico Nacional.



Projed Appraisal Document                                                                                            Page 40
Country: Guatemala                                                                Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Guatemala
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expecta
Ori&inal Amnount in US$ Millions            and acu
Loan or     Fiscal                                                                                                           disbursements
Project ID      Credit No.    Year           Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD      IDA      Cancell-   Un-disbursed   Orig  Revised
ations                  From
No. of Closed Loans/credits: 21
Active Loans
GT-PE-35737      1BRD42600       1998  REPUB. OF GUATEMALA   RURAL & MAIN ROADS                    66.70     0.00      0.00         66.70         0.00      0.00
GT-PE-48654    IBRD42250         1998                               TAX ADMIN. TAL                 28.20     0.00      0.00         28.20         0.00      0.00
GT-PE-48657      IBRD42690       1998  GOV. OF GUATEMALA            INTEG FIN MGMT II              15.70     0.00      0.00         15.70         0.00      0.00
GT-PE-48756    IBRD41490         1997  REPUB. DE GUATEMALA   PRIV PRTCPTN INFR TA                  13.00     0.00      0.00         13.00         1.40      0.00
GT-PE-7223       IBRD41670       1997  REPUB. OF GUATEMALA   BASIC ED. REFORM                      33.00     0.00      0.00         33.00         1.17      0.00
GT-PE-7213       IBRD38950       1995  REPUB. OF GUATEMALA   INTEG FINAN MGT                        9.40     0.00      0.00         2.00        -1.64       0.00
GT-PE-7220       IBRD35340       1993  GOV. OF GUATEMALA            SOCIAL INV FUND                20.00     0.00      0.00         5.14          5.15      2.15
GT-PE-7199       IBRD30030       1989  GOV. OF GUATEMALA            BASIC ED                       30.00     0.00     11.21         3.25         14.45      3.24
GT-PE-7205       IBRD30020       1989  REPUB. OFGUATEMALA   SCNDRY&REGRD RHB                       31.50     0.00      5.92         10.15        16.05       3.89
(MIN. O
Total                                                                                              247.50  0.00        17.13       177.14        36.58      9.28
Active Loans        Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed(IBRD andIDA):                        53.22                508.31                561.53
ofwich has been repaid:                            3.16                358.03               361.19
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                      227.21                150.28                377.49
Armount sold         :                                0.00                  5.76                  5.76
Ofwhich repaid      .                                0.00                  5.76                 5.76
TotalUndisbursed                                    177.14                  0.00                177.14
a  Intnded disbursements to date minus actual dibursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Sutnty (Forn 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system
would be used (HS = bighly Satisfactory, S = satisfactoy. U = esaisfactoty, HU = bighty unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology
(SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the frst week of the month.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 41
Country: Guatemala                                              Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Statement of IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Jan-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1993                  Vigua                    7.56    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.56    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/96               Puerto Quetzal           7.08    0.00    3.96   23.90    7.08    0.00    3.96   23.90
1994                  Fabrigas                 4.50    0.00    1.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    1.00    0.00
1996                  Pantaleon               18.75    0.00    0.00    0.00   18.75    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Aceros                  18.00    0.00    0.00   14.00   18.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   55.89    0.00    4.96   37.90   55.89    0.00    4.96   23.90
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equitv  Quasi  Partic
1997                  ORZUNIL                 14.50    2.30    0.00   13.00
1997                  SIDEGUA BLINC            0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00
Total Pending Commitment:          14.50    2.30    0.00   20.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          Page 42
CountrY: Guatemal                                                                  Reconstruction and Local Development Project
ANNEX 10
Guatemala at a glance                                                              8/7
Latn  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America  middle-
Guatemala   & Carib.  Income      Developmrnt diamond*
Population mid-1996 (mimllons)                       10.9      485    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                           1,470     3,710    1,750               Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (bllions US$)                               16.0     1,799    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population {X)                                        2.9       1.7      1.4     GNP                             Gross
Labor force (X)                                       3.5       2.3      1.8      p          <ross
per                           prrimary
Most recent estimate (latestyear available since 1989)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty: headoount index (% ofpopulation)
Urban population (% of total populatIon)              42        74       56
Life expectancy at birth (yeats)                      66        69       67
Infant rnotality (per 1,000 tlv bIths)                44        37       41               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children undr 5)
Access to safe water (% of populatIon)                64        80       78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  44        13                         Guatemala
Gross primary enrolhment (% of schooage popultion)    84       110      104
Male                                                89         ..    105                 Lower-mkidle-income gmoup
Female                                              78         ..    101      _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1995    1996
Economic ratlos*
GDP (btlmons US$)                            3.6      9.7      14.8    15.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP               16.1    11.5       14.9    13.7              Openness of economy
ExportsofgoodsandserviceslGDP               21.7     11.9      19.3    18.9
Gross domestic saving sGDP                  14.3    10.5        8.8      8.5
Gross national savings/GDP                  14.6      8.9      11.0    10.8
Current account balance/GDP                 -1.8    -2.5       -4.0    -2.9
Interest payments/GDP                        0.3      1.2       0.9      0.7     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                               8.8    27.3       22.2    19.9
Total debt service/exports                   4.4    27.9       11.9      9.7
Present vahle of debt/GDP                      ..      ..      18.9
Present value of debt/exports                 ..                                             Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-06    1996      1996  1997-05
(avrage annual g,owth)                                                                     Guatenmla
GDP                                 1.9      3.9      4.9       3.1      4.5 5keo                              u
GNP per capita                     -0.9      0.6      0.2       3.0      2.5                       1          gmup
Exports of goods and services      -1.9      5.7     13.7       7.7      5.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                 1976    1986       1996    199S       Growth rtes of output and investment(%)
Agricuture                                    ..       ..      23.9    24.8      30-
Industry                                      ..       ..      18.9    19.3      20
Manufacturing                               ..       ..      14.8    14.7      10 -
Services                                      ..       ..      57.2    55.9      0o r    *     T
-10 -    91   92   93   94 
Private consumption                         78.9    82.6       85.7    86.1      21 1
General govemment consumption                6.9      7.0       5.5      5.4                    GD0    -GDP
Imports of goods and services               23.5    13.0       25.5    24.1                                               .
1976956  1986-986    1996    1996
(awrage annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  1.2     3.2        3.6      2.5    4o
Industry                                     2.1     3.6        4.8     2.9
Manufacduring                              2.1      2.6       3.2      1.9      20
Services                                     2.3     4.4        5.6      0.8
Private consumption                          2.2     4.1        5.2      3.8      0
General govemnient consumption               4.7     3.4        1.3     2.5             91   92   53   54   95   96
Gross domestic investment                   -3.7     8.0       -2.9   -12.2      2D
Imports of goods and services               -5.7    10.8        7.6     0.2               -Exports    lmports
Gross national product                       1.9      3.6       3.1    12.1
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in halics are for years otherthan those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be inoomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          Page 43
Country: Guatemala                                                                 Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Guatemala
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1985       1995    1996
Domestic prices                                                                   Infaton (%)
(% change)                                                                       so
Consumer prices                             13.2    18.6        8.4    10.4    40
Impliet GDP deflator                        13.1     18.8        8.5     9.1
Govemment f1nance
(% or GDP) 
Current revenue                                                 11.7    11.2             91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                        ..       ..        2.9     2A                     GDP det.  -CM
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..       0.0    -0.6                                               .
TRADE
197S    198S       1996    1996
(mNiions US)                                                                      Export and Import levels (nill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                           ..   1,060      2,156    2,224      4,00o
Coffee                                       ..    452         576     516
Sugar                                        ..      44        248     224      3,000
Manufactures                                  *-               603      649
Total imports (cit)                            .    1.175      3,292    3,323     2,000 .nH litli
Food                                         ..      85       607      645
Fuel and energy                              ..     262        287     338
Capital goods                                 ..     197       832      813          F_______________
Exportpriceindex(1987=100)                     ..    115        127      122            so  91  92  03  04  95  Be
Import pnce index (1987=100)                   .       87       106      107                  raExports   Simports
Temis of trade (1987=100)                     ..    132         119      113
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    198S       1995    1996
(milons USS)                                                                      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exportsofgoodsand services                   783    1,161     2,800    2,975      o
Imports of goods and services                860    1,257      3,727    3,788         90      9      1          95 99
Resource balance                             -78      -96      -928    -813       -2
Net income                                   -66     -170      -159      -99
Net current transfers                         78       19       491      456
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers          -65    -247        -595    -456
Financing items (net)                        169      354       438      590
Changes in net reserves                     -104    -107        157    -134    -10
Meno:
Reserves including goW (mill. US$)           353      472       783      948
Conversion rate (1ocaYUSS)                   1.0      1.2        5.8     6.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995    1996
(millons USS)                                                                    Conposlifon of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and dksbursed         322    2,656      3,275    3,132
IBRD                                        39      225       158      200                         A
IDA                                          0        0         0        0                G       200
59c
Total debt service                            35      335       342      340
IBRD                                         4       24        54       27
IDA                                          0        0         0        0          121
Compostion of net resource flws                                                                                 D
Ofricial grants                              3       27       105       65                                   1116
Offricial creditors                         23      139       -21
Private creditors                           27        2        10
Foreign direct investment                   80       62        75       80                  E
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0        0                1105
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                 26       45         0        9      A - IBRD                   E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                7       49        13       69      B - IDA    D- Other multilatral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         1       13        40       13      C-IMF                      G - Short-term
Net fios                                     6       36       -26       56   1                            _
interest payments                            3       11        14       14
Net transfers                                3       24       -40       42
Development EconomIcs                                                                                             8/28197



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 44
Country: Guatemala                                          Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Annex 1 1
Social Assessment
Guatemala: Reconstruction and Local Development Project
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY:
After 34 years of internal conflict, the Peace Accords were signed on December 29th, 1996 and peace was
restored in Guatemala. The arduous task of reconstruction of the social and political fabric was initiated
by the Government (GOG) in a joint effort with the local governments, Community-based organizations
(CBOs), local and national non-govermmental organizations (NGOs) and the international community.
The Bank was invited to participate in this effort with a Reconstruction and Local Development project.
The Social Assessment for this project was carried out during preparation (December, 1996-April, 1997)
through a comprehensive Participatory Rural Appraisal which had three main objectives: (i) to carry out
municipal participatory diagnoses at the community level; (ii) to identify the main stakeholders and their
established decision making processes, and (iii) to make recommendations for project design based on
prioritization of needs by beneficiaries as established in the Peace Accords. The latter promotes
decentralization of government resources to the local level, community empowerment, municipal
strengthening and increased participation of beneficiary groups in decisions affecting their development.
The Social Assessment includes four parts. First it focuses on the methodology, targeting and techniques
employed in the Participatory Rural Appraisal. It also explores the socio-economic conditions of the
project area in ternns of demography, linguistic diversity, migration and income generation activities. The
second part deals with community organization, social stratification and presents an analysis of the
municipal governments in the region. The third part focuses on the social infrastructure: education and
culture, health, housing, water and sanitation in the region. Finally, the fourth part deals with economic
infrastructure, including roads and transportation, electricity and solar energy, telecommunications and
media, and productive infrastructure such as credit and money management in the region. The assessment
is synthesized at the end with conclusions and recommendations for subproject design.
The Reconstruction and Local Development project would focus on sixteen municipalities located in
northern San Marcos and southwestern Huehuetenango. Targeting of the project area responds to the
consensus of the beneficiaries, local Governments, local NGOs, Central Government (GOG), FONAPAZ,
the Maya-Kiche Council of Elderly, the World Bank and other international organizations consulted, such
as the IDB, KfW, and UNDP, in compliance with the Peace Accords and the objectives of the forthcoming
Guatemala Country Assistance Strategy FY99-01.  After the first field visits it became evident that
targeting was justified because: (i) this region has suffered economic isolation from the rest of the country;
due to its geographic location on a mountainous region between the Cuchumatanes and Sierra Madre
mountain range, (ii) socio-linguistic barriers have made this region difficult to penetrate, as three
indigenous Maya-Kiche languages are spoken: Mam, Tectiteko and Sipakapense; (iii) during the conflict
years, the GOG and the international community neglected the region resulting in levels of extreme poverty;
and (iv) population, and social and economic indicators underestimated the state of emergency: the actual
population exceeds official data by 20-60%; health and education indicators reflect only patients and
students who actually seek services, and not those who are so far removed that are unable to access them.
The Social Assessment was carried out in eight municipalities, five belonging to San Marcos and three to
Huehuetenango.
The Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA -including Diagnosis and Needs Assessment) was done to make
up for the absence of updated official and unofficial data. It was carried out by a team of World Bank
social scientist consultants (an Anthropologist, a Social Psychologist and an expert in municipal
government), with the support of FONAPAZ (especially the San Marcos and Huehuetenango Regional
Offices), municipal governments, and mainly the communities themselves. It consisted of eight diagnostic



Project Appraisal Document                Annex 11                                    Page 45
Country: Guatemala                                            Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Offices), municipal governments, and mainly the communities themselves. It consisted of eight diagnostic
workshops  with participation of approximately 750 individuals representing over 320 communities.
Detailed results per municipality may be found in eight Diagn6sticos de Desarrollo Integral
Participativos Comunitarios available in the project file.
The diagnostic workshops focused on socioeconomic and organizational issues dealing with community
organization, health, education and culture, water and sanitation, roads and access to services, productive
activities, infrastructure, and municipal government. In each municipality, representatives from each
community had the opportunity to discuss their issues, prioritize their needs, offer culturally adequate
solutions, propose mechanisms to achieve goals (including government or NGO intervention, training) and
integrated priorities into a municipal development plan. Moreover, focus groups and several interviews
with mayors and Municipal Corporations underlined the local and regional government profile, their needs
and solving strategies. Interviews with NGOs, CBOs, associations and cooperatives depicted the present
capabilities of such entities to participate in the community projects.
In recognition of people's rights under Customary Law (Derecho Consuetudinario) the diagnostic
workshops included all levels of stakeholders: male and female members of the general beneficiary
population, community leaders, health and education staff and volunteers, all the organized groups such as
committees, associations, or cooperatives, CBOs, NOOs (local, national and international), the catholic and
evangelical churches, traditional and modern authorities and private sector in general. In sum, all those: (i)
who play a role in the social, economic, cultural and political development of the project region, (ii) who
may be affected by the project; or (iii) who may influence the course of the project. All stakeholders were
included in the PRA, either in focus groups, formal or informal interviews.
The Social Assessment of the target population indicates that 74.4% identify themselves as Mayan
descendants and the other 25.6% as "mestizo" (mix-blood) farmers of Mayan tradition. It also shows that
indigenous and non-indigenous people in the region suffer from the same levels of extreme poverty and
"exclusion" from access to social and economic services and opportunities. It is recommended that the
project attempts to promote equal opportunities for both indigenous and non-indigenous to integrate
committees, to be part of the decision-making process to request sub-projects, to participate in the project
cycle and thereafter continue to benefit from overall sustainable subprojects.
To ensure total participation in the project and to eliminate exclusion barriers, the Social Assessment
determined the degree of bilingualism (Spanish-Mayan language) in each municipality. The findings point
out that despite the high levels of Mayan monolinguism in a few municipalities, the level of community
organization overcomes the linguistic gap. In other words, if the community has a local organizational
capacity capable of including stakeholders in the project cycle, the linguistic barriers would not be a
constraint.
Main Findings and Conclusions of the Social Assessment.
Community organization and municipal government
*  Well organized communities and broad-based   participation are traditional norms of these
municipalities and the single most important item which may guarantee beneficiaries' participation in
the proposed project.  The traditional open forum called "cabildo abierto" is the platform where
community needs, problems and concerns are discussed and prioritized, consensus is built upon and
solutions are sought. The decision-making process is part of their rights under Customary Law. In the
approximately 330 population units of the project area, there are 820 committees already formed.



Project Appraisal Document                 Annex 11                                      Page 46
Country: Guatemala                                             Reconstruction and Local Development Project
Traditional and modern authorities.
*  They are complementary, not incompatible.  The Academies of Mayan Languages promote the
restoration and recognition of Mayan traditional authorities and values, within the spirit of the Peace
Accords. Centuries of denial of the traditional authorities have made a dent in the traditional system.
Consequently, only few Elders are known to communities as such. Consultations with Elders are
typically on traditional Mayan values, history and oral tradition. Consultations on project design,
coverage, community contributions are made with community leaders.
Social infrastructure
*  Education. The average level of schooling in target communities is second grade. Moreover, evidence
points out that only 35% of school age children 4-16 years old attended school in 1996. The remaining
65% of children did not. Illiteracy in Spanish for the area is calculated at 75+%.
*  Health.  Access to health services is deficient.  There is only one health center type "B" (no
hospitalization) in each municipality regardless of its population size (Tacana has 106,000
inhabitants). There is not a single hospital in the project area. The health system is sustained mainly
by volunteer health promoters and untrained midwives. Patterns of mortality and morbidity indicate
that maternal and infant mortality are the highest. Most common causes of morbidity are: parasites,
malnutrition, upper respiratory infections (URI), acute diarrheic infections (ADI), and amoebas. All
preventable with minimum primary health care, hygiene and an improved diet.
*  Water. Only 45% of households in the project region have access to running water, 30% use well
water (with consequent health problems due to unsanitary conditions), 30% of households get water
directly from rivers with rubber hoses and containers.
-  Sanitation. Close to 61% of dwellings have access to private latrines, 5% to washable latrines (at
municipal capitals), and the rest either share latrines or use the rivers. Most latrines were built by
dwellers themselves to fight the late 1980's cholera epidemic.
Economic Infrastructure
*  Land tenure. The assessment shows the absence of large farms (fincas) existent half a century ago. At
the moment, plots range between 0.48 Ha. and 1.4 Ha. with an average of 0.9 Ha. per household.
Most farmers hold land titles.
*  Income Generation. Income is tied to migration to coffee, cotton and sugar cane farms in Mexico and
southem San-Marcos. The average monthly family income in Mexican farms is Q567.00 (US$94.50),
in San Marcos farms is Q 315.00 (US$52,50) and in their own village Q100.00 (US$16.70).
*  Access roads and transportation. The geographic remoteness and mountainous topography contribute
to presenting difficulties in accessing main villages (aldeas) and municipal capitals.  Public
transportation is almost non-existent. Cargo transportation is mostly done on people's backs and pack
animals (there is one pack animal for every two families).
*  Electric Power. Only 13% of households have electricity; the rest use candles. Beneficiaries are
willing to pay Q1 ,000 per household on average for installation of electric power.
*  Reforestation. Use of wood for cooking by 100% of the households has depleted forests. An urgent
reforestation campaign is suggested.



Project Appraisal Document                    Annex 11         -                              Page 47
Country: Guatemala                                                 Reconstruction and Local Development Project
The Six HighesiPriorities in the Project Area are,:
1. ^i Access ;Roads, Construction and rehabilitation iof access roads was the hgest priority in
seven out of the eight municipa lit         roas                  itis)primary roads
(between Guatemala and Mex an, andtertiary roads (between villagesand muncipal capls).
02.- ;XWaterand sanitation. Proper inslations in householdsi. 
3.E:ducaton.: Accountable teac hers; expansion ofS  Iools; bilingua c urrculuml.
04. 6.teh  Type "A" healthicenter(inpathient can-,  pen 12Ihealth postsWclosed; gmo.remedcal
5.. Eerny.: Electric (or solar)vpower.t
6.    0 Reforestation.; Look foralternativetot w fiiels; most;forests are nearly depleted.
Recommrendations for Sub-project Design.
*   An Integrated Community Project Design. Poverty is such that only an integrated project which
accounts for all areas of development would contribute to improve the living conditions of the
population. The project should be developed within the framework of the Socioeconomic and
Agrarian Peace Accords, and the accords on the Identity and Rights of the Indigenous Peoples.
- The operational structure of the project should capitalize on the existing social and political structurg:
(Mayor, Municipal Ccrporation; Auxiliary Mayor, regidores, alguaciles, beneficiary committees
organized around specific purposes, Parents' Associations.) It should promote these structures by: (i)
finding simpler mechanism to obtain legal status, and (ii) providing technical operational assistance to
these stakeholders.
*   Consult and involve: (i) local authorities in every step of project formulation and implementation, and
(ii) all stakeholders and beneficiary strata.
*   Capitalize on already existing practices with regard to projects: (i) most present projects are tripartite
(municipality, community, GOG/NGO); (ii) a community contribution is common; (iii) technical
assistance is expected by beneficiaries; and (iv) training for maintenance is also expected.
*   Ensure protection of the most vulnerable groups, particularly children, with health, education,
nutrition, and sanitation integrated subprojects.
* Respond to health needs as a priority: by (i) requesting from the Ministry of Health an upgrading of
health centers and posts, opening of 12 health posts presently closed, with an adequate supply of
medical staff, (ii) creating birthing homes network to reduce the mother-child mortality rate in the
project region, (iii) training of local midwives and health promoters, and (iv) creating incentives for
medical staff to remain in the area.
*   Coordinate efforts with the Ministry of Education to introduce the PRONADE systems to more
schools in the project region, coordinating efforts with already existent bilingual programns.
*   Take a sociolinguistic approach to project information dissemination in general, including: (i)
broadcasting information in Spanish and the local Maya-Kiche languages; and (ii) bilingual posters
and brochures, music and skits.
*   Ensure women's participation by: (i) requiring a percentage of women's signatures (30%+) on request
forms; (ii) requiring at least one woman on the Board of Directors of each committee; (iii) developing
sub-project types which respond directly to needs/concems identified by women providing facilities
(child care) which may enable them to attend and commit to activities, and (iv) using a monitoring
system to track gender of beneficiaries.
*   Special attention should be provided to cultural and historical heritage project proposals in the project
area.
*   Promote integrated environmnental projects as a condition to satisfy basic needs (i.e. tree farming and



Project Appraisal Document                         Annex 11                                             Page 48
Country: Guatemala                                                        Reconstruction and Local Development Project
watershed protection as condition for obtaining a water project).
*    Include local community-based organizations efforts and practices in project desi.
*    Keep forms to be filled out by beneficiaries as simple as possible. Manuals should contain simple
language and pictures, and be laminated.
* Plan to include the most adeguate means of transportation for the project staff, which are 4x4 vehicles
and motorcycles, during project implementation.



IBRD 29282
*/-~~~~~~~~ -s -l                 - i; -q  - -t  -r                               - -  - - -arrios
Thi~ ..p -ulvtug p-d by       - -' - -  - -; -i~>''    
-1-, ,ei.i   ..                                                                                                            BELIZE+  ,
\- 1-6 A-\ Kcl,;,- -x,;.5 ** *   .
Grp -i  idq-                 <D th;OA                  0C< U TE             @L   F 4lo:i)                 HC6taJ>?                               O      D
vv~~M  RahuE   9* X I C< 0An9ayY, ,,<  
16'
Puerto ~ ~     ~    JrY1 9



IBRD 29196
92O00'               GUATEMALA                                                                  91°30'
RECONSTRUCTION AND LOCAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
'5at S Pd *ctD'                         ;--
15°30'                              /                         L abertad                                                                             1 San0Pedro Nea h O    % a  1530'-
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E |  Aipgal                           ++ eow ti SAntit6ana9
.......       Ci1 Rv                              San4Idefonso     a       "O* RaSn
Cu,ico                                        a    Ixta   ~            0% asi a       za n0nSebastian Huehuetenago
/    Tuic6che
o
Choquim      ^ TdIitSn    a               0  Huispache                             \  /                               /Huehuetenago
/                                    ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~0 1                           Santa Barbaraci 
LasMajadas                 \ ts               a                               ,Te,
*          +   i ,;4, e ,3      5           zO~~~~~~~~~~~ Con  pc6n    N>->   f#                 
Suichayo                  N               na                                 Sn    ui4    ZapotER sar ioMalacatanci
\oi~ctaclne ~                                 -Subchal
0                 u t        Oacg+,@4                                   '5          El lriu    ,-r X pacapa  s             '
MEXICO  \.   A g                                   '9      a
S  Sibinal~                                    u; 
'   /$      ~~~~Tajumulco la   :O.                            mitof           >Cancn     
_/ Teresa ° O Finca La hIr a aQX, ; r~~~~~uici:/upe   , 
15,00'                /   5            Pira ca-,,2 4liOc   '                     o                           /5,0 \ibiI
> \                 R       ~~~~~~~~                          ~~~'Sa Raae   5atenp6qezaset           Caarlos Si  
/  ElTumubador                   d '                42
/                  0 Catarina           .tM E X I C 0
i                                                      14                                      Iti ._ .1   iBELIZE
DEPARTMENTAL ROADS,UNPAVED                      0   2   4  6   I 10Kilareters                          .                  BEUZE
12N    NATIONAL ROADS PARTIALLY UNPAVED                      2    A            B    10 Miles                                          
CENTRAL AMERICAN ROADS PAVED                                                                  1/o Map,'
°    VILLAGES WITH 4,000 + IN HABITANTS                        thu " g woo poded by                   8U  AT EM AJ-A
4,000                           ~~~~~~~~~~~the Map Deaiq a Cni of TheC 
"     MUNICIPAL CAPITALS                                       Wold Bark. Tho. ndoriea o,
'0     DEPARTMENT CAPITAL                                       any other irh,tia shown A                          et              HONDURAS
4...'                                          on ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~thin mop do not i;pi ony'S
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                   the part of The Word Bank             -            >        S%t
roup any judg,-entoa the                                            L r
MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES                                    Ilgol at.tu of ay t-erritry,
or any ondorsemet or                                         EL SALVADOR    (
-.-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                    hEau .n-oi   ofC-c hCgAN
92'00J   1 9
JULY 1998



IBRD 29277
92'00'              GUATEMALA                                                                91'30
This ap soo prod-cd by
theMpDes mm Unit of Tho
RECONSTRUCTION AND LOCAL                                                Wdo. T1X hodoHeTh
/  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~                                           colors~~~~~~~~~~1, don-,m-hm-tonsad
*/vDEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                                         -y ofhernf-orn--tio shoAwn
/                     MAYAN  MONOLINGUISM                                           Gr-oo°upi.n, Cyr/ jdgmm°ent, 0mtIme
lea.sftu o ny  trioy
bouvndaies.
15°00' 3,00 -
>  f       jSan Rafael                   alA enpe°at    \                         S~~~~~~~~~~~Sn Janl 
San Sebastian Huehuetenago
;Huehuetenago
Santa Barbara 
oo      lajumulca                  ulols     * ) o amits  p                        M     ancito
.   .i   2  r                      S        s                    (   .                ~~     ~     ~    ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~92t  90'  _t88r
MEXICO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MXC 
¢ 2  4< 6P 8  1 _ Kiloeter
>.  ~        ~~~ jBELIZEla
MONOLINGUISMO IN THE PROJECT AREA:             -"'    DEPARTMENTLTALARS,ANAVEDNPAVED
i   60°b MAM                                             NATIONAL ROADS PARTIALLY UNPAVED                             7           i          o,o
t~~~O   40%MAM                           {     CENTRAL AMERICAN ROADS PAVED                       f~ MoIP r -5
0ll1o.30% MAM                                     0     VILLAGES WVITH 4,000 + IN HABITANTS              /     G:UA TE.M ALA        '. 
..10% MAM                                      @} E MUNICIPAL CAPITALS                                                          C}.tg ;,  ^   
40% TEKTITEKO                                 -3 DEATETCPIA                                          i-.ttG'ml                    HONDURAS
20%~~~~~~~~~S  DEPARTMENTE CAIA                                                         .              *Guo m  oolo
20% SIPAKAPENSE                ~~' ''   DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                           14   > 
SOIA ASESMN BONDR 6                                                                                                    . 1 0 Mie  inim
SCAASSMNB RMUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES                                                            EL ALVADOR
15,_01                                              92,00, -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                          .
..000    ..                                                                                    99.
ntonib    San~~~~JUY 99



IBRD 29278
92,000                     GUATEMALA                                                91030'
th        Unit of The
RECONSTRUCTION AND LOCAL                                         thIerapre prodToe
D                World Bo,,kT hocadori..
DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                                      a°l° dremonrmna°tio annd
}                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on thin mop do not inply, on
/   :   H I P SOMEA A, a TRY D,the port of The World Bank
-ro,ay -ud-mt-o-th
wial   0                                                 legal stat  of any territory
15030'                                                           o/ '                                                            15;30
;ce'o'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                        1
MEXI U~TE
0 0i~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    t    San Juan
/
0  2  4 6  8 10 Ktlometers  t                i - 0   0 ;  0             ,
-   DEPARTMENTAL ROADS,UNPAVED                                         I     f.'"A';l'
ELEVATION IN METERS:   ,      NATIONAL ROADS PARTIALLY UNPAVED          16  *A_                >
-.- 2700                         O    VILLAGES WITH 4,000 + IN HABITANTS                    A      AL
.  --t500                           0)    MUNICIPAL CAPITALS                           .t 
- - X -(3    DEPARTMENT CAPITAL                                                    0                erra, a   \  HONDURAS
'T~~~~~~~~~~z
MUNICIDPALTEN BOUNDARIES                                              EL SALVADOR
n    n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
-- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES 0                                       ,
JULY 1 998



