Page  1
April 1, 1998
Lic. Jose Alejandro Arévalo Alburez
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Zona 1
Guatemala, Guatemala
Re:  Japanese Grant for the preparation of the Guatemala
  Reconstruction and Local Development Project 
  Grant No. TF025488
Excellency:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank)  to indicate the Bank’s  agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan 
to make a grant in an amount not exceeding five hundred thousand Dollars ($500,000) (the 
Grant) to Republic of Guatemala (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for 
the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities 
described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is 
authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by the 
Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will 
become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By:  /S/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Page  2
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By
/S/ José Alejandro Arévalo Alburez
Authorized Representative
Date:
July 2, 1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient, through FONAPAZ (Fondo
Nacional
Para
La
Paz
-
the Recipient’s National Peace Fund) in the preparation of the Guatemala 
Reconstruction and Local Development Project (the Project).  The technical assistance activities 
(the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
Provision of technical assistance to FONAPAZ to identify: (i) appropriate 
mechanisms to select investment subprojects within the jurisdiction of selected 
municipalities located in the Department of San Marcos (such selection to be made by 
FONAPAZ in a manner satisfactory to the Bank); and (ii) methodologies for building 
community ownership and sustainable participation of the communities located in the 
selected municipalities mentioned in (i) herein during the implementation of the Project.
(b)
Improvement of the methodology to design, carry out and maintain investment 
subprojects.
(c)
Carrying out of workshops to identify mechanisms to be used by the communities 
mentioned in (a) above in prioritizing their investment needs.
(d)
Design of a project coordination unit to be established within FONAPAZ to assist 
FONAPAZ in the coordination and supervision of the Project.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the Activities.
Page  3
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient shall 
cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities 
promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. The Recipient shall 
indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims 
against the Bank in connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31,1998.  After that date, 
the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in 
the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done 
according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the 
territory of the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than 
nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. 
Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, 
after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds 
for the Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient 
has failed to perform any of its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the 
Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the 
Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank  or any development 
credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that 
is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
