Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4379-GU
Loan Agreement
(Reconstruction and Local Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 4, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4379-GU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 4, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Banco de Guatemala” means the Borrower’s central bank; 
(b)
“Beneficiary” means a community organization which has been established 
as a legal entity to operate within the Borrower’s territory and meets the criteria 
set forth in the Orientation Manual to be eligible for carrying out a Community 
Subproject; 
(c)
“Community Subproject” means any of the projects described in Part A of 
the Project to be carried out by a Beneficiary; 
(d)
“Eligible Municipality” means a municipality which meets the criteria set 
forth in the Orientation Manual to be eligible for participating under Part B.1 of the 
Project; 
(e)
“Executive Accords” means Acuerdo Gubernativo No. 408-91 dated June 28, 
1991 and Acuerdo Gubernativo No. 244-92 dated April 13, 1992, of the Borrower as such 
accords have been amended to the date of this Agreement;
(f)
“FONAPAZ” means the National Peace Fund (Fondo Nacional para la Paz) of 
the Borrower established pursuant to the Executive Accords; 
(g)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the Project’s performance indicators and targets, 
as such letter may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(h)
“Ministerial Accord” means Acuerdo Ministerial No. 23-92 dated May 
18,1992 of the Borrower which regulates the operation of the Trust Fund, as such 
accord has been amended to the date of this Agreement;
(i)
“Orientation Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, which sets forth, inter alia: (1) the criteria for selection of Community 
Subprojects; (2)  the list of subprojects which shall not be financed with the Loan 
proceeds; (3) the criteria for selection of Beneficiaries and Eligible Municipalities; 
(4) the terms and conditions of Subproject Agreements; (5) the disbursement and 
procurement procedures to be followed during the carrying out of the Project; (6) the 
procedures to carry out environmental, social, financial, economic and other technical 
evaluations of each Community Subproject; and (7) the contents of the training to be 
provided under Part B of the Project, as such manual may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank; 
(j)
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; 
(k)
“Project Area” means the area covered by the Departments of Huehuetenango 
and San Marcos, as such area may be expanded from time to time with the agreement of 
the Bank;
(l)
“Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.01(b) of this Agreement; 
(m)
“Special Account ” means the account referred to  in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(n)
“Trust Fund” means the account (Fideicomiso de FONAPAZ) opened by the 
Borrower in Banco de Guatemala, the trustee,  pursuant to the Trust Fund Agreement; 
and 
(o)
“Trust Fund Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the 
Borrower and Banco de Guatemala dated December 26, 1991 as such agreement has been 
amended to the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty 
million Dollars ($30,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in Banco de Guatemala on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Page  4
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15 and October 
15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
 Section 2.08. The Executive Director of FONAPAZ (or such other person or 
persons as the Minister of Finance of the Borrower shall appoint in writing) is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through FONAPAZ with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate technical, administrative, financial and environmental practices, and 
in accordance with the Orientational Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
For purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall 
transfer, on a grant basis, to the corresponding Beneficiary a portion of the proceeds 
of the Loan (allocated under Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement) under an agreement (the Subproject Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and such Beneficiary under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subproject Agreement in 
such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, terminate, waive or fail to 
enforce any Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)
The Borrower shall operate and maintain during the implementation of the 
Project the Trust Fund in accordance with the provisions of the Trust Fund Agreement 
and the Ministerial Accord for purposes of administering and disbursing the Loan 
proceeds and the counterpart funds for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six  months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall establish within FONAPAZ, and thereafter 
operate and maintain during the implementation of the Project a Project coordination 
unit (the PCU) with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, 
including, inter alia, the responsibility to coordinate, monitor and supervise the 
implementation of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is at all times headed by a 
Project coordinator and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  5
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators and targets set forth in the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.    
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than forty five days after the 
conclusion of each calendar semester during the implementation of the Project, 
starting in 1999, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request with respect to the progress made by the 
Borrower in the carrying out of the Project during the calendar semester preceding the 
date of presentation of such report. 
Section 3.07. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) not later than September 30 of each year 
during Project implementation, starting in the year 1999, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a plan of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request with 
respect to the activities to be carried out under the Project during the calendar year 
following the date of presentation of such plan; and (ii) thereafter carry out such 
plan in accordance with its terms.
(b)
In the preparation of the annual plans referred to in paragraph (a) (i) 
above, the Borrower shall take into account: (i) the recommendations set forth in the 
corresponding progress reports referred to in Sections 3.06 of this Agreement; and 
(ii) the results of the corresponding annual ex-post evaluation and assessment carried 
out under Part C.2 of the Project.
Section 3.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than August 31 of each year of 
Project implementation, starting in 1999, review jointly with the Bank the: (a) 
progress made by the Borrower in: (i) carrying out the Project; and (ii) achieving the 
objectives of the Project, based on the indicators and the corresponding reports 
referred to in Sections 3.05 and 3.06 of this Agreement, respectively, as well as on 
the results of the corresponding annual ex-post evaluation and assessment carried out 
under Part C.2 of the Project; and (b) FONAPAZ’s standard unit prices system.  As part 
of each such review the Bank may require the Borrower to prepare an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in Project implementation. In such 
event, the Borrower shall not later than forty five days after the conclusion of each 
such review furnish such action plan to the Bank and shall thereafter carry out, or 
cause to be carried out, such a
ction plan in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.09. In the event that the environmental evaluation of a particular 
Community Subproject (to be carried out prior to the approval of each Community 
Subproject) recommends actions to be taken by the Borrower to address any negative 
environmental impact, the Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such actions in 
a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than 12 months after the 
Effective Date complete the preparation of the baseline data referred to in Part C.4 
(a) of the Project; and (b) not later than June 30, 2002 prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request 
containing the results of the survey mentioned in Part C.4 (b) of the Project. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain in FONAPAZ a 
financial management system, including records and separate accounts and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of 
the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
Page  6
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
financial statements, records and accounts 
and a report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: that the Executive Accords or any provision 
thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not 
enforced in such a manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of 
the Borrower, through FONAPAZ, to carry out the Project;
(b)
that the Borrower shall have assigned, amended, abrogated, suspended, 
terminated, waived or not  enforced the Trust Fund Agreement or any provision thereof 
in such a manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the 
Borrower through FONAPAZ, to carry out the Project; 
(c)
that the Ministerial Accord or any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as 
to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower, through  FONAPAZ,  
to carry out the Project; and
(d) 
that the Banco de Guatemala (as trustee of the Trust Fund) shall have 
failed to comply with any of its obligations under the Trust Fund Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
Page  7
(a)
that any of events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or (c) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b)
that the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
That the Orientation Manual has been approved by the Borrower. 
(b) 
(i)
that the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 
(a) of this 
Agreement has been established; and 
(ii)
that the Borrower, through FONAPAZ, shall have adopted a format, 
acceptable to 
the Bank, to prepare its financial statements as 
provided in Section 4.01 (a) 
of this Agreement. 
(c)
That a plan, as provided in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, for the 
activities to be carried out under the Project during 1999 has been furnished to the 
Bank. 
(d)
That the PCU has been established and staffed as provided in Section 3.04 
of this Agreement. 
(e)
That the Borrower has furnished to the Bank a report, satisfactory to the 
Bank, containing the results of FONAPAZ’s latest ex-post evaluation of its ongoing 
projects.  
Section 6.02. The date March 4, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Centro Cívico
Zona 1, Guatemala
Cable address: 
MINFIP
Guatemala, Guatemala
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  8
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Guatemala City, Guatemala, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By /s/ Pedro Miguel Lamport 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ José Roberto López Calix 
Resident Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
  (Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Community Subprojects
  21,000,000
75%
(2)
Goods other than under
   4,000,000
100% of foreign
Category (1)
expenditures and 75%
of local expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services
    2,000,000
100%
other than under
Category (1)
(4)
Training other than
    1,500,000
100%
under Category (1)
(5) Audits
500,000
100%
(6)
Unallocated
    1,000,000
TOTAL
   30,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
Page  9
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for Consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower to carry out training activities under the Project, 
including the per-diem and travel cost of the trainees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $3,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but within 
twelve months from the date of this Agreement; and 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) of such table unless 
the Subproject Agreement for the corresponding Community Subproject has been signed by 
the parties thereto.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods to be 
awarded under Parts B.2 (a) and B.3 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement with 
the exception of the first two contracts to be awarded under such Parts each calendar 
year during Project implementation; (b) contracts for goods, works and/or technical 
services under Community Subprojects; (c) contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (d) contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants costing less than $25,000 equivalent; and (e) Training as set 
forth in Category (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve the living standards and the 
sustainable self-development of approximately five hundred thousand people living in 
extreme poverty in the Project Area.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Community Subprojects 
Financing of projects consisting of small cultural, social or economic 
infrastructure investments (including the acquisition and utilization of goods and the 
provision of technical assistance and/or training, as appropriate) in areas such as 
education, health, rural water and sanitation, pollution prevention, trade or roads 
which meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the Orientation Manual.
Part B:
Capacity Building 
1.
Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance and training, of 
the institutional and administrative capacity of Eligible Municipalities to identify 
and address the needs of the local population living within the jurisdiction of such 
municipalities.
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training to community organizations: (a) 
in the identification, formulation, planning, evaluation, financing, maintenance and 
execution of potential Community Subprojects; and (b) in participatory planning for 
the prioritization of their needs and the allocation of resources. 
Part C:
Strengthening of FONAPAZ 
1.
Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance and training and 
Page  10
the acquisition and utilization of goods, of the administrative and financial capacity 
of FONAPAZ, including the PCU, to monitor and coordinate the carrying out of the 
Project. 
2.
Carrying out of annual ex-post evaluations of Community Subprojects, which shall 
include an assessment of the Beneficiaries. 
3.
Provision of auditing services for purposes of carrying out audits under Section 
4.01 of this Agreement. 
4.
(a) Preparation of a baseline data containing, inter alia, socio-economic and 
demographic information on the Beneficiaries; and (b) carrying out of a random survey 
of Community Subprojects, to measure the impact of the Project. 5. Carrying out of 
promotional campaigns to inform the community organizations with respect to the 
contents of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
      Dollars)*
April 15, 2004
635,000 
October 15, 2004
655,000 
April 15, 2005
675,000 
October 15, 2005
695,000 
April 15, 2006
715,000 
October 15, 2006
735,000 
April 15, 2007
755,000 
October 15, 2007
780,000 
April 15, 2008
805,000 
October 15, 2008
825,000 
April 15, 2009
850,000 
October 15, 2009
875,000
 
April 15, 2010
900,000 
October 15, 2010
930,000 
April 15, 2011
955,000 
October 15, 2011
985,000 
April  15, 20112
     1,010,000 
October 15, 2012
     1,040,000 
April 15, 2013
     1,075,000 
October 15, 2013
     1,105,000 
April 15, 2014
     1,135,000 
October 15, 2014
     1,170,000 
April 15, 2015
     1,205,000 
October 15, 2015
     1,240,000 
April 15, 2016
     1,275,000 
October 15, 2016
     1,315,000 
April 15, 2017
     1,355,000
 
October 15, 2017
     1,395,000 
April 15, 2018
     1,435,000
October 15, 2018
     1,475,000
_____________________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Page  11
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
 Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Vehicles and computer hardware and software equipment shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Goods (other than those referred to in paragraph 1 above and those to be 
procured under Community Subprojects) estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more 
per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Goods and works under Community Subprojects estimated to cost $150,000 
equivalent or more per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(c)
Procurement of goods and works under this Part shall be carried out using 
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
3.
International or National Shopping 
Goods (other than those referred to in paragraph 1 above and those to be 
procured under Community Subprojects) estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures, 
at the option of the Borrower, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Community Participation
Goods, works and technical services under Community Subprojects estimated to 
cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract which are procured as a package under 
the circumstances which fall under the considerations described in paragraph 3.15 of 
the Guidelines, may be procured: (a) up to an aggregate amount of $11,000,000 
equivalent, through national shopping in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; or (b) when national shopping is not possible and up to 
an aggregate amount of $8,000,000 equivalent through direct contracting of providers 
available in the area.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works (including technical services, when 
appropriate) shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods to be awarded under Part B.1 
of this Section; (ii) the first two contracts to be awarded under Part B.2 (a) of this 
Page  12
Section each calendar year during Project implementation; and (ii) the first two 
contracts to be awarded under Part B.2 (b) of this Section each calendar year during 
Project implementation, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts to be awarded under Part B.3 
of this Section each calendar year during Project implementation; and (ii) the first 
two contracts to be awarded under Part B.4 of this Section each calendar year during 
Project implementation, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, contractor or provider, as 
the case 
may be, under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;   
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; 
and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for the provision of technical assistance under Part C.2 of the Project 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the provision of technical assistance under Community Subprojects 
and Parts B, C.1, C.5 of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for the provision of technical assistance under Community Subprojects 
and Parts B, C.1 and C.5 of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  13
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
under: (i) Parts B, C.1 and C.2 of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more; and (ii) Parts C.3 and C.4 of the Project, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants under Community Subprojects and Parts B, C.1 and C.5 of the Project 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to 
the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $2,000,000 in 
respect of the Special Account for the Project to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $1,000,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed an amount equal to $6,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
Page  14
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account for the Project, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
Page  15
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Terms and Conditions of Subproject Agreements
Each Subproject Agreement shall contain terms and conditions whereby:
1.
The Borrower agrees:
(a)
to finance up to 90% of the cost of each Community Subproject of which: 
(i) up to 15% shall be financed with counterpart funds; and (ii) 75% shall be financed 
with Loan proceeds;
(b)
to inspect, by itself or through FONAPAZ or jointly with representatives 
of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, the goods and works included in the 
respective Community Subproject, and any relevant records and documents; 
(c)
to take or cause to be taken all actions as provided in Section 3.09 of 
this Agreement; 
(d)
to procure, on behalf of the Beneficiary, the works, goods or services to 
be financed under a Community Subproject as provided in Section 3.02 of this Agreement 
in the following cases: (i) upon request of the Beneficiary; (ii) when goods and works 
are to be procured under the procedures set forth in Parts B.2 (b) of Section I of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; or (iii) when the results of the technical evaluation of 
the particular Community Subproject recommend it; and 
(e)
to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to benefit from the 
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to comply with any of its 
obligations under the corresponding Subproject Agreement.
2.
The Beneficiary agrees:
(a)
(i)
to carry out and operate the respective Community Subproject with 
due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound 
administrative, 
technical, engineering, financial and 
environmental standards and in 
accordance with the provisions of 
the Orientation Manual; and 
(ii)
to provide the necessary information to FONAPAZ to enable the 
Borrower to 
comply with its obligation as provided in Section 
4.01 of this Agreement;
(b)
(i)
to procure the works, goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement in 
cases other than those referred to in paragraph 1 (d) 
above; and 
(ii)
to use exclusively the works and goods in the carrying out of the 
respective Community 
Subproject;
(c)
to finance at least 10% of the total cost of the corresponding Community 
Subproject, such financing to be made either: (i) in cash; (ii) in kind; (iii) through 
the provision of labor; or (iv) by means of any combination thereof;
Page  16
(d)
to take all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when 
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying 
out the Community Subproject and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon its request, 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are 
available for purposes related to the Community Subproject;
(e)
to obtain when needed, prior to the carrying out of the corresponding 
Community Subproject, all permits, licenses and or rights (other than those referred 
to in paragraph (d) above) necessary to carry out, operate and maintain the Community 
Subproject; 
(f)
to take all actions on its part required to address any potential 
negative environmental impact identified in the environmental evaluation for the 
corresponding Community Subproject, or cause the contractors carrying out the works 
(through inclusion of appropriate mandatory provisions, acceptable to the Bank, in the 
bidding documents for such works) to take all necessary actions to address such 
impact, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(g)
not to: (i) assign or transfer, in whole or in part, any of its 
obligations under the Subproject Agreement; or (ii) sell, lease, transfer, assign, or 
otherwise dispose of any property or assets financed wholly or in part with the 
proceeds of the Loan.
