                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No:ICR000093




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           ( IBRD-43790 JPN-26461 )




                          ON A LOAN IN THE AMOUNT
                             OF US$ 30.0 MILLION

                                     TO

                           The Republic of Guatemala


       FOR A RECONSTRUCTION AND LOCAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                March 27, 2007




Social Protection Sector
Central America Countries CMU
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                             ( Exchange Rate Effective )
                             Currency Unit = Guatemalan Quetzals (GTC)
                                 GTC 1.00 = US$ 0.15
                                  US$ 1.00 = GTC 6.27


                                     Fiscal Year
                          (JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31)



                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDD     Community-Driven Development
FIS    Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversión Social)
FODIGUA Indigenous Social Fund
FONAPAZ National Peace Fund ("Fondo Nacional para la Paz")
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
FSDC    Community Development Social Fund
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GOG     Government of Guatemala
GRC     Community Organizations
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDB     Inter-American Development Bank
KfW     German Institute for Reconstruction and Development
LCO     Local Community Organizations
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MINUGUA United Nations Verification Mission
MIS     Management Information System
MOF     Ministry of Finance
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
OM      Operations Manual
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCD     Participatory Community Diagnosis
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PDL    "Proyecto de Reconstrucción y Desarrollo Local"
PHRD    Japan Policy and Human Resources Development
PRONADE National Education Program (Programa Nacional de Educación)
SAT     Superintendence of Tax Administration

SIAF       Government's Financial Administration System
UNDP       United Nations Development Program




        Vice President: Pamela Cox

      Country Director: Jane Armitage

       Sector Manager: Helena G. Ribe

         Sector Leader: Laura Rawlings

   Project Team Leader: Manuel Salazar
     ICR Team Leader: Manuel Salazar

                                                 Guatemala
                     GT RECONSTRUCTION & LOCAL DEV.




                                               CONTENTS




DATA SHEET................................................................................................................. i
A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ...........................................................................................ii
E. Bank Staff...................................................................................................................ii
F. Results Framework Analysis.....................................................................................iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ..................................................................vii
H. Restructuring (if any)...............................................................................................vii
I. Disbursement Profile...............................................................................................viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 37
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 42
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 44
Annex 10. Community Subproject Statistics................................................................ 45
Annex 11. Summary of Ministry of Finance comments on Draft ICR (in Spanish).... 48
Annex 12: Results Framework Analysis (See detailed information on PDO Indicator
(s) on the attached table)............................................................................................... 49
MAP

DATA SHEET
A. Basic Information

                                                                     GT
Country:                Guatemala              Project Name:         RECONSTRUCTION
                                                                     & LOCAL DEV.
                                                                     IBRD-43790,JPN-
Project ID:             P049386                L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                     26461
ICR Date:               03/19/2007             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                     GUATEMALA
Original Total
                        USD 30.0M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 19.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Fondo Nacional para la Paz
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/06/1997     Effectiveness:       02/24/1999        02/24/1999
Appraisal:             02/16/1998     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              07/28/1998     Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:             06/30/2003        06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower              Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately                                   Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory         Government:           Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing          Moderately
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately             Overall Borrower      Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory         Performance:          Unsatisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          Yes                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Unsatisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                          50               50
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector             10               10
Health                                                            15               15
Other social services                                             15               15
Sub-national government administration                            10               10


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Improving labor markets                                          Primary        Secondary
Indigenous peoples                                              Secondary        Primary
Municipal governance and institution building                    Primary         Primary
Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring                       Secondary       Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                                Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                          Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:         Jane Armitage                       D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:           Helena G. Ribe                      Ana-Maria Arriagada
Project Team Leader:      Manuel Salazar                      Juliana Weissman
ICR Team Leader:          Manuel Salazar
ICR Primary Author:       Oswaldo Patino




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
1. Improve living standards and self-development in the municipalities of San Marcos
and Huehuetenango through support for the planning, execution and maintenance of
small-scale social, economic and cultural projects.

  2. Strengthen the capacity of local governments and local community organizations to
address the most critical needs of the populations they serve.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                                 approval           Target         Completion or
                                               documents)           Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   The number of subprojects financed by category and project type (See Annex 12
                for detailed information).
                                            Traditional CDD

                zero (Please refer Annex    projects: 249;
Value                                       Matching grants:
quantitative or 1 of the main documente     18; Sub-projects to                347
Qualitative)    for additional Indicators
                under PDO Indicator 1)      support Mitch's
                                            reconstruction
                                            efforts: 80
Date achieved 02/16/1998                    06/30/2006                         06/30/2006

Comments        Despite the lack of a proper measure of Project's impact, beneficiary surveys

(incl. %        indicate that overall subprojects provided beneficiary communities with access

achievement)    to basic infrastructure services such as schools, health centers, roads, water and
                sanitation.
Indicator 2 :   The number of beneficiaries reached (women, families, and communities).
                                            500,000             Geographical

Value                                       beneficiaries livingarea extended

quantitative or Zero                        in 16               to all         370,000
Qualitative)                                municipalities of   municipalities
                                            San Marcos and      of both
                                            Huehuetenango.      departments.
Date achieved 02/16/1998                    06/30/2006          06/30/2006     06/30/2006

Comments        Even with implementation delays, shortage of local counterpart funds and

(incl. %        cancellation of more than US$10 million of loan funds, FONAPAZ estimates

achievement)    that the Project benefited about 350,000 people and near 50,000 families (about
                70% of the 500,000 benef.).
Indicator 3 :   The number to technical assistance and training events.
Value           Zero                        Number of                          5



                                                 iii

quantitative or                            Training events
Qualitative)                               aimed at
                                           Institutional
                                           Strengthening.
Date achieved 02/16/1998                   06/30/2006                         06/30/2006
Comments       Even though the PCU provided indirect technical assistance that had formed an
(incl. %       integral part of the PDL, it was never fully staffed to provide capacity building
achievement)   and institutional strengthening.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised       Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Number of families benefited from community subprojects.
Value
(quantitative                              Zero                              54,384 families.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                              02/24/1999                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Community members benefited from community subprojects.
Value
(quantitative                              500,000                           346,088

or Qualitative)                            beneficiaries.                    beneficiaries.

Date achieved                              02/24/1999                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Number of subprojects implemented.
Value
(quantitative                               Zero                             347 subprojects.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                              02/24/1999                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Subprojects financed/Subprojects approved.
Value
(quantitative                               Zero (percentage)                 89.0%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                              02/24/1999                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Subprojects completed/Subprojects approved.



                                                iv

Value
(quantitative                             Zero (percentage)            81.2%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             02/24/1999                   06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Total cost of community subprojects.
Value
(quantitative                             US$ 31.50                    US$ 20.27
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             02/24/1999                   06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :  Category areas of community subprojects implemented.
Value
(quantitative                             6                            9
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             02/24/1999                   06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :  % of women participating in community subprojects implementation.
Value
(quantitative                             Zero                         34%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             02/24/1999                   06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9 :  % of improved family income.
Value
(quantitative                             Not measured.                Marginally

or Qualitative)                                                        Satisfactory

Date achieved                             02/24/1999                   06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 10 : % of increased school enrollment.
Value
(quantitative                             Not measured.                Satisfactory.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             02/24/1999                   06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 11 : % of increased clinic attendance.



                                              v

Value
(quantitative                            Not measured.                      Satisfactory.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                           02/24/1999                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 12 : % of increased access to water.
Value
(quantitative                            Not measured.                      Satisfactory.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                           02/24/1999                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 13 : % of decreased travel time to markets and other centers of economic and social
               activity.
Value
(quantitative                            Not measured.                      Satisfactory.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                           02/24/1999                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 14 : Number of training events aimed at capacity building for community members.
Value
(quantitative                            Zero.                              4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                           02/24/1999                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 15 : Number of community members participating in training events.
Value
(quantitative                            Zero.                              180
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                           02/24/1999                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 16 : Number of training events aimed at institutional strengthening.
Value
(quantitative                            Zero.                              5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                           02/24/1999                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



                                              vi

Indicator 17 : Number government authorities participating in training events.
Value
(quantitative                         Zero                                185
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                         02/24/1999                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived           DO                           IP                 Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     12/31/1998       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     06/25/1999       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     1.00
  3     12/22/1999       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     1.40
  4     06/22/2000       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     2.73
  5     11/03/2000       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     2.73
  6     11/20/2000       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     2.73
  7     04/05/2001       Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     3.37
  8     06/29/2001       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     3.85
  9     12/12/2001       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     5.69
  10    06/17/2002       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     7.88
  11    12/18/2002       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   10.02
  12    06/06/2003       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   11.60
  13    12/15/2003       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   13.88
  14    06/02/2004       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   14.60
  15    12/15/2004       Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                   14.99

  16    04/28/2005       Satisfactory                Moderately
                                                   Unsatisfactory                   16.44

  17    05/26/2005       Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               16.44
  18    12/24/2005  Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 19.87

  19    06/01/2006        Moderately                 Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                   19.87



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                           vii

I. Disbursement Profile




                           viii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)
At the time of Project appraisal, Guatemala had recently emerged from 36 years of civil war. The
country had the third highest income inequality in the Latin America and the Caribbean region,
with the poorest quintile of the population receiving only 1.9 percent of total income. Between
1989 and 2000 progress in reducing poverty was modest (from 62 to 56 percent). In 2000 three
quarters of indigenous and rural residents lived under the poverty line. Inequality was largely due
to unequal access to productive assets, notably land, and chronic low investment in human capital.
At that time 2.5 percent of Guatemala's 5.3 million farms controlled 65 percent of the farmland,
whereas only 16 percent of the land was cultivated by 88 percent of the farmers. Extreme poverty
was concentrated among the indigenous people who accounted for about half of the total
population. Education spending was among the lowest in the region for decades (1.6 percent of
GDP in 1994 compared with a regional average of 4 percent) and the education enrollment rate
was the second lowest in Latin America. Health expenditure was also among the lowest in the
region (1.2 percent of GDP in 1994 compared with a regional average of 3 percent). Infant
mortality was 55 per 1,000 live births; and maternal mortality, 110 per 100,000 live births.
Approximately 16 percent of infants suffered from low birth weight and approximately 50
percent of children were chronically malnourished. These indicators were even worse for
indigenous peoples, women, and rural residents.

Guatemala's long civil war deeply affected economic growth and living conditions of substantial
segments of the Guatemalan population, particularly poor and indigenous communities. It is
estimated that the economic cost of the conflict was equivalent to more than 120 percent of GDP
(counting losses in productivity and damaged or destroyed infrastructure only), exacerbating the
incidence of poverty in some regions. On December 29, 1996, the Peace Accords were signed
ending more than 36 years of armed conflict. The Peace Accords constituted a coherent agenda
for the political, economic and social development of Guatemala in the medium term, including a
set of goals and measures seeking to restore social cohesion in the regions most affected by the
armed conflict, and to create a strong platform for a sustained and more equal growth. The Peace
Accords constituted a national consensus for development included economic and social
agreements regarding human rights, the proper civil identification for indigenous populations, the
resettlement of displaced populations, and targets for social sector spending.

The Peace Accords were strongly supported by donors in the form of grants and loans (in 1997 a
Consultative Group on Guatemala pledged $1.9 billion in financial assistance to support
economic and social development projects aimed at underpinning the Peace Accords) and by
other international organizations such as the United Nations, which established MINUGUA
(Spanish acronym for the United Nations Verification Mission), a commission to monitor
compliance with Peace Accords.

The Government's development strategy, in the context of the Peace Accords, was to make
substantial decentralized investments in social and economic infrastructure and services for
populations living in extreme poverty and isolation, especially indigenous communities. To this
end, the Government created FONAPAZ (Spanish acronym for National Fund for Peace) in the
early 1990s as a social fund to alleviate poverty and improve rural infrastructure in areas affected
by the civil war. The Bank's 1998 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Guatemala aimed at


                                                 1

supporting Government's efforts for sustainable peace. The CAS supported government efforts
through four pillars: building social cohesion and participatory decision making, reducing
poverty, increasing economic growth and improving public sector effectiveness.

The Reconstruction and Local Development Project (the Project or PDL) supported two of these
pillars: ­Building Social Cohesion and Participatory Decision Making and Reducing Poverty,
which were in turn, aligned with key goals of the Peace Accords: (i) improving Guatemala's
weak institutional infrastructure to provide a prompt, efficient and sustainable response to the
basic needs of its rural population; and (ii) addressing the extreme poverty, and social and
economic isolation prevailing in the Project area. Additionally, the Project's decentralized
approach was consistent with the terms of two specific Peace Accords elements ­the Socio-
Economic Accord and the Agreement on the Identity and Rights of the Indigenous Peoples.
FONAPAZ was created as the executing agency to channel resources to local community
organizations (LCO), building a foundation for sustainable peace, restoring infrastructure affected
by the armed conflict, and promoting local and community development. By the time the Project
was approved, the IDB (Inter-American Development Bank) and KfW (German Institute for
Reconstruction and Development) had also processed operations to support FONAPAZ in
helping communities affected by the internal conflict in the framework of the Peace Accords.

FONAPAZ was the first social fund in Guatemala. Later on during the 1990s Guatemala would
create about a dozen additional social funds, most of them for specific purposes and linked to line
ministries, but the largest ones were similar to FONAPAZ, with overlapping program areas and
types of interventions. The second category included the Social Investment Fund (FIS) created in
1993, the Community Development Investment Fund (FSCD) created in 1993 and suppressed in
2003, and the Guatemalan Indigenous Development Fund (FODIGUA) created in 1994.



1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The Project's original development objectives were: (a) to improve living standards and self-
development in the municipalities of San Marcos and Huehuetenango through support for the
planning, execution and maintenance of small-scale social, economic and cultural subprojects,
and (b) to strengthen the capacity of local governments and local community organizations
(LCOs) to address the most critical needs of the populations they serve.

The performance indicators presented in the Project Appraisal Document, (Document No. 17194
dated June 26, 1998) to evaluate progress with respect to the above objectives were: (i) the
number of subprojects financed by category and project type, (ii) the number of beneficiaries
reached (men, women, families and communities), (iii) the number of technical assistance and
training events, (iv) the number of community organizations formed and functioning, and (v) the
financial, technical and organizational sustainability of subprojects.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
Because they were so broad, throughout implementation there were no revisions to the Project
development objectives or to the Project's performance indicators.




                                                 2

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)
The primary target group expected to benefit from the Project was a population of approximately
500,000, half of them indigenous, living under the poverty line in 16 municipalities in the
departments of San Marcos and Huehuetenango. Target municipalities were initially selected by
consulting the Guatemala Poverty Map. These departments constituted the second largest
concentration of population living in extreme poverty in rural Guatemala. In the early 2000s the
incidence of poverty and extreme poverty reached 73 and 25 percent, respectively in San Marcos,
and 78 and 30 percent in Huehuetenango. Indigenous communities comprised on average 50
percent of the population in both departments and these communities had poverty incidence rates
of nearly 80 percent, well above national and regional average. During project preparation,
fieldwork confirmed the priority of these areas based on poverty criteria and the final list of
participating municipalities was agreed with the borrower and FONAPAZ.

Other entities expected to benefit from the Project were: (i) municipal governments, in terms of
capacity building and institutional strengthening activities, and (ii) government agencies at the
central and departmental levels, in terms of technical assistance activities and provision of goods
to improve the effectiveness of social funds, the quality of public investments, and the
transparency of public spending.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The following components were designed to achieve Project development objectives:

Component A. Community Subprojects (US$ 31.5 million total cost; US$24.0 million Bank
financing). This component aimed at financing small cultural, social or economic infrastructure
subprojects (including equipment and technical services), to be prioritized, formulated and
managed by the communities themselves; with a suggested maximum total cost per subproject of
US$150,000.00 (including beneficiary contributions). Based on consultations with the
beneficiaries, subprojects requests were expected (but not limited) to include the following areas:
health, water and sanitation, education, support for productive activities, and cultural heritage.

Component B. Capacity Building (US$3.0 million total cost; US$3.0 million Bank financing).
This component was designed to finance capacity building activities for municipal governments
and beneficiary organizations in the various aspects of formulating, planning, evaluating,
financing, maintaining and executing subprojects and in participatory planning and environmental
concerns. The component was intended to improve technical and administrative capacity of the
municipal technical units in the above mentioned areas and to improve the effectiveness of the
beneficiaries in identifying, planning, executing and finding sources of funding for subprojects.

Component C. Institutional Building (US$3.0 million total cost; US$3.0 million Bank
financing). This component aimed at introducing and testing innovative management methods to
improve institutional response and increase efficiency, communications materials and campaigns,
staff training and financing vehicles, computers and other equipment for FONAPAZ' Project's
Coordinating Unit (PCU), and its various supervision and monitoring activities, including Project
financial audits, annual ex-post evaluations and a Project impact evaluation.




                                                 3

1.6 Revised Components
There were no revisions to the Project's components; however, at the request of the GOG, the
Capacity Building component (Project's component B) was marginally amended in 2004 to
support the office of the Vice President of Guatemala in its efforts to modernize social funds and
rationalize social investment. As a result, this component was amended to include activities
aimed at: strengthening the institutional and administrative capacity of social fund investments
through (a) defining and adopting mechanisms to improve coordination between social fund
investments and line ministries' sector policies; (b) strengthening departmental and local level
planning mechanisms to articulate social fund investments with priorities identified by
departmental development councils; and (c) designing tools to improve the monitoring of social
fund investments.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)
During project implementation there were several changes as described below:

    1. At the start-up of the Project, in November 1998, Hurricane Mitch caused severe damage
        in the country. Under these circumstances, the GOG requested help in financing an
        emergency plan to restore or rehabilitate civil works in the 16 beneficiary municipalities,
        as well as in expanding financing to other municipalities within the area affected by the
        storm. The Bank responded quickly to allocate the equivalent of US$3 million to finance
        this emergency plan. Consequently, 80 subprojects were approved and implemented to
        support this reconstruction effort.

    2. In 2004, the new administration in Guatemala designed a strategy to improve the
        effectiveness of public social expenditures and modernize social funds. Previous
        assessments showed that proliferation of social funds in the country led to overlapping
        activities and areas of intervention, inefficiencies and poor targeting, undermining the
        effectiveness of public spending appropriate through this agencies. As part of this policy,
        adjustments in the subproject cycle and the introduction of a matching grants scheme
        (Fondos Concursables) were agreed to in May 2004 and put in place in the second
        semester of 2004. The matching grants scheme was based on the principles of the Project,
        but emphasized municipal participation in the sub-project's cycle and co-financing, a key
        feature of Project design, which had performed poorly. The introduction of the matching
        grants scheme did not affect the original criteria to select and finance sub-projects,
        empower local authorities and communities, and address community needs. Nevertheless,
        under this scheme municipalities and communities would have to compete for funds, and
        the Project would allocate loan resources after applying a formula which would rank sub-
        projects in a very transparent way. The matching grants sought to increase municipal
        participation and promote local planning; even though theses aspects were originally
        foreseen in Project design, the Project had not developed effective tools to enforce it. The
        scheme also sought to streamline the sub-project cycle by involving local government on
        the administration of funds, an aspect that had become a bottleneck that delayed project
        implementation in 2003 and 2004. The Operations Manual (OM) was revised to include
        the procedures required by the matching grants scheme.

        The Project allocated the equivalent of US$2.2 million under the matching grants scheme
        to improve collaboration between local authorities (municipal mayors) and organized
        communities by increasing municipal participation in the formulation, co-financing, and



                                                 4

        implementation of subprojects as well as in the decision making process; and to speed up
        project disbursements. As requested by the GOG, the area of project intervention was
        extended to benefit all municipalities in the departments of Huehetenango and San
        Marcos. Thus, as of mid-2004, the Government started to carry out two kinds of sub-
        projects: (i) subprojects implemented under traditional community-driven development
        (CDD) arrangements, as approved in the original component A of the Project. These
        consisted of small sub-projects intended to be identified, formulated, and managed
        (including execution of works and administration of PDL funds) by local communities;
        and (ii) sub-projects implemented under the new model based on matching grants. These
        were larger and more complex subprojects awarded on the basis of a formula including
        variables such as proportion of co-financing funds from municipalities, location, and
        number of poor people to be benefited by the proposed subproject, among others. In
        contrast to the traditional CDD mechanism, under the matching grants scheme
        municipalities and communities would compete for funds. This feature of the matching
        grant scheme led to a much higher participation of municipalities in terms of decision-
        making (identification of sub-projects) and financing. On average more than a third of
        sub-projects' total cost was funded by municipalities, while under the CDD approach
        sub-projects with significant funds from municipal budgets were the exception.

    3. The loan closing date, originally scheduled for June 30, 2003, was extended twice. The
        first extension, on May 30, 2003, was granted until June 30, 2005 in order to ensure the
        full completion of the Project, given that implementation had been affected mainly by
        counterpart funding constraints. The second extension to June 30, 2006, granted on May
        25, 2005, was granted to allow the Project to meet its objectives on a narrower scope of
        approved subprojects. At the same time US$7.1 million of the loan was cancelled to slow
        project implementation and disbursement rates. The second extension of the closing date
        was based on a very detailed action plan proposed by FONAPAZ to comply with
        previous commitments made by the GOG. In particular, the second closing date extension
        sought to complete the first round of matching grants and conclude subprojects under
        implementation or already approved by FONAPAZ, and thus ensure that none of the
        subprojects under implementation would be closed without being properly financed and
        completed.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)
The decision to implement the operation through a Social Fund was based on reports by the Bank
and the IDB that mentioned that social investment funds had advantages in focusing on well-
defined subprojects; being operationally efficient; obtaining feedback from communities and
other actors through monitoring and evaluation; being transparent and accountable; being
efficient in disbursing funds expeditiously; improving targeting, and introducing adequate
mechanisms for subproject sustainability. In Guatemala, the Bank strategy to strengthen local
development and decentralized investment decisions was based on supporting two of the most
important social funds ­FONAPAZ through the PDL operation, as part of the overall agenda to




                                                5

enforce the Peace Accords and FIS1 (Spanish acronym for Social Investment Fund) through the
FIS I and FIS II2 operations (the Bank's first and second loans to the FIS). The decision to use
social funds was adequate at the time not only because of the abovementioned reasons but also
because it was seen as a more efficient agency than line ministries in terms of financing integral
and multi-sectoral sub-projects while providing technical assistance for capacity building.
Nevertheless, project preparation suffered significant shortcomings, which eventually affected
implementation and the achievement of the development objectives.

Too broad definition of specific objectives and poor identification of outputs, outcomes and
targets. Broadness of Project's objective may have given too much flexibility to what could be
considered eligible for financing. This was exacerbated by lack of adequate mechanisms to
monitor and follow up on project progress. Different than the FIS II operation, approved a few
months after the PDL, the Project did not define baseline outcome/output nor performance
indicators and failed to define specific targets. The absence of adequate data and systematic
reports on Project's progress would be an ongoing feature during implementation. This
undermined project supervision and contributed to the failure to raise flags when needed during
Project implementation.

Overestimation of capacity at local level. There was an overestimation of local community
capacity to implement and operate subprojects. The CDD strategy, based on local community
administration of funds and subprojects' contracts, implementation and operation, implied a
different approach, compared with the traditional scheme that social funds used at that time. The
project sought to provide technical assistance to local communities to enable them to manage the
whole sub-project cycle, including contracting firms, supervising and receiving works. In contrast,
under the traditional approach commonly used by social funds, firms to execute works used to be
contracted and supervised by the social fund. In fact, implementation of the PDL was sought to be
different that of the FIS II, as the latter used the traditional approach based on centralizing
contract and sub-project operations. The implementation of the FIS II operation was significantly
more rapid precisely because they used the usual top down strategy to implement subprojects
Even though FONAPAZ negotiated an exception with the SAT (Spanish acronym for
Superintendence of Tax Administration) for local communities to manage public funds, local
organizations' actual capacity to deal with subprojects was much lower than expected and
considerably delayed project implementation. Later on in 2003, with the new decentralization
laws, the arrangements to expedite communities' authorization to manage public funds (obtain
legal personality and be issued a Government account ­cuentadancia) were no longer acceptable
for the authorities, exacerbating delays in subproject cycle. Eventually, the PCU had to adhere to
traditional centralized social funds procedures and in practice FONAPAZ through the PCU
managed most of the sub-project cycle, including contractors and supervision.

Approval of Operations Manual not fully completed. At loan effectiveness, the Project team had
not adequately revised the Operations Manual and its CDD implementation scheme for
subprojects to be executed by the local community organizations. The traditional CDD approach


1 FIS (Fondo de Inversión Social) ­ Social Investment Fund Project, Loan No. 3534-GU dated September
29, 1993, Report No. 11060.

2 FIS II ­ Second Social Investment Fund Project ­ Loan No. 4407-GU dated January 22, 1999, Report No.
18244.




                                                   6

was not fully described and therefore not applied. At that time, the Operations Manual did not
include a subproject cycle that focused on the participation of local community committees in
their subprojects' implementation process. Key aspects specifying the norms and guidelines for
community organization structures to promote community participation in development
subprojects were not clearly detailed in the Operations Manual.          This led FONAPAZ to
implement a significant proportion of funds under the traditional social funds scheme: the
government agency would hire the firms to implement the subprojects, and local communities
would sign the contract following instructions from the PCU. This procedure undermined
community ownership and the subsequent operation and maintenance of subprojects. This
particular weakness contributed greatly to the poor implementation of key elements of the CDD
approach proposed by the Project. A new Operations Manual including such aspects of CDD was
only completed in early 2003.

Lack of ownership from FONAPAZ. The creation of a PCU undermined a sense of ownership
among FONAPAZ staff, including those in field offices. In order to improve the Project's
communication with local beneficiaries and facilitate assistance to communities and
municipalities in the areas of intervention, the PCU was physically located in San Marcos so as to
operate in a decentralized manner. However, the PCU staff received only partial support from the
central office, resulting in delayed decisions regarding subprojects approval and in the less-than-
required allocation of funds for the Project. The PCU was set in an area where a field office of
FONAPAZ also operated, creating a parallel structure to process subprojects. Although this
decentralization of the PCU was meant to result in better access and higher efficiency in
assistance to local communities, it proved to be counterproductive, as FONAPAZ tended to
isolate the Project from its institutional framework both in headquarters and the field offices. In
some cases, beneficiary communities did not identify the Project (PDL) as a FONAPAZ program,
but instead as an independent intervention. This helped to exacerbate FONAPAZ' view of PDL
as a particular program outside its institutional arrangements.

Underestimation of risks. The statement of risks presented in the Project Appraisal Document
does not consider several aspects that the original project design should have foreseen. First,
difficulties surrounding the introduction of a CDD scheme based on communities' capacity to
manage the subprojects using non traditional operational procedures should have been anticipated.
Second, the institutional arrangements that created parallel structures and the implications for
FONAPAZ ownership and support could have been reconsidered. Third, Government's budgetary
restrictions or unwillingness to make timely and adequate budget appropriations that delayed sub-
project implementation were not foreseen. Failure to identify these risks up front prevented the
Bank and the Government from taking appropriate and timely mitigation measures.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)
The institutional model to implement the Project enabled the Government to finance hundreds of
sub-projects most of them well targeted and addressing multi-sector local needs properly
identified by local communities and organizations. However, during Project implementation there
were several factors that seriously affected the Project's performance:

Natural disasters. The Project was affected by two natural disasters which generated delays and
slowed project implementation. First, soon after the Project became effective Hurricane Mitch
caused severe damage in the country and delayed CDD subprojects' financing by at least 12-18
months. As a result, the project component for community subprojects was restructured and a



                                                   7

minor proportion of loan funds was reassigned to finance approximately 80 emergency-related
subprojects. The other natural disaster, which occurred in the last year prior to loan closing, was
Tropical Storm Stan. This phenomenon affected the implementation of 6 subprojects that were at
the time being financed under the CDD scheme. Thus, those subprojects, which had a physical
progress of 60 percent on average, were suspended and liquidated.

Even though the Government and the Bank reacted quickly to support Government efforts to
address the emergency generated by Mitch, the funds financed traditional social funds subprojects.
This fact jointly with the lack of an appropriate Operations Manual led FONAPAZ and the PCU
to begin Project implementation and then to keep executing a large proportion of funds through
the traditional social fund scheme explained above.

Lack of a strategy for the capacity building component. The project disbursed only US$200,000
for capacity building out of the US$3 million originally estimated. There was lack of
programming in the use of loan funds, specifically for training, purchasing of equipment and
technical assistance during the entire life of the Project, including the agreed action plans that
supported both closing date extensions in 2003 and 2005. In practice, the PCU would provide
training and technical assistance to the beneficiary communities to develop their skills to plan,
manage, and execute subprojects. Specific manuals and leaflets, some workshops and direct
assistance accompanied these activities.

Nevertheless, the Project failed to define and implement a strategy to provide technical assistance
for capacity building and institutional strengthening both in the field to beneficiary communities
and local governments, and at FONAPAZ headquarters in Guatemala city. This weakness in
project implementation undermined the extended application of the CDD model based on
increasing local communities' ownership and participation in the identification, formulation,
implementation and management of funds and contracts. It may have also affected sub-projects
operation and maintenance, undermining the overall sustainability of the operation. Additionally,
there is no evidence that the PCU provided any significant support to strengthen municipal
capacity and improve institutional arrangements. Ultimately, the lack of systematic activities to
support communities and municipal capacity and institutional strengthening seriously jeopardized
the Project's ability to achieve its development objectives.

Shortage of loan and counterpart funds during Project implementation. From the start of the
Project effectiveness until closing, the country's fiscal situation generated restrictions in loan and
local counterpart contributions on a yearly basis. The Project's annual budget allocation was
always limited to under US$3 million per year, and the Project's implementation schedule had to
be adjusted consistently to this restriction. Consistently insufficient allocations of funding
resulted in limited yearly project progress and affected the achievement of project outcomes. In
2005, when disbursements had reached about 50 percent of the original loan amount and
implementation had completed its sixth year, the GOG decided to cancel US$7.1 million in loan
funds and limit the focus of the Project to implementing and finishing only a set of already
committed and approved subprojects. It is important to mention that, despite the Bank's
continuous recommendations, the GOG continued to show lack of commitment to increasing
budget resources allocated to the Project.

Slow bureaucratic processes, together with the budget ceilings imposed by the Ministry of
Finance also affected usage of the PHRD Implementation Grant (Japan Policy and Human
Resources Development donation) obtained in 2000. The grant required counterpart resources and



                                                 8

also an increase in financial ceilings, but neither of these were allocated by the GOG. As a result,
the grant was not executed in its entirely and more than 50 percent of the grant was cancelled in
2004. These grant funds had been considered important for the project as they were assigned for
the implementation of: (i) a management information system, (ii) a base line survey for the
impact evaluation, and (iii) a training program in financial management for the PCU staff, and
other key studies.

Frequent turnover of key staff. Throughout the Project's implementation period, there was
considerable staff turnover at the Project Coordinating Unit. This was due to political intervention
and related changes in management administration at FONAPAZ, affecting PCU performance
and Project's overall implementation. Although during 2002 the situation improved and the PCU
was strengthened with some competent staff, after a short period of stability, high rotation
resumed especially when a new administration took office in early 2004. This resulted in several
changes not only in Project Coordinators but also in other key staff within the PCU, such as the
procurement specialist and the accountant. Additionally, a lengthy process to fill vacant positions
contributed to a poorly staffed PCU, and affected negatively the administration, management and
follow-up of agreements, as well as the action plans agreed with the Bank in the context of
several missions. It also required the Bank to provide almost continuous training in Bank
procedures.

Insufficient autonomy at the PCU. Even though the PCU was located in San Marcos, the
centralized management of FONAPAZ did not allow the PCU staff to operate with the level of
autonomy (and therefore celerity) envisaged in the Project's design. It weakened PCU
performance and delayed results on the ground. Delays at FONAPAZ headquarters offices
affected administrative procedures to start up sub-projects, funds appropriation and disbursements,
and operational activities such as hiring required PCU personnel, which contributed to the
Project's permanent under-staffing as described above. Despite some improvements during the
last years of the project implementation, the PCU's activities were always highly dependant on
FONAPAZ headquarters offices' decisions.

Excessively long subproject approval cycle. The subproject evaluation, approval and
implementation processes were extremely long and cumbersome. The time between subproject
approval and the start of disbursements was, on average, more than six months. These lengthy
periods were caused by: (i) managerial weaknesses in the PCU regarding sub-project
identification and evaluation; it was not unusual for the PCU to have to re-evaluate subprojects
when they had some level of complexity; (ii) the additional time required by FONAPAZ
headquarters to review and approve subprojects; (iii) lack of experience in the PCU regarding
procurement, especially in national public bidding, exacerbated by the high rotation of
procurement specialists; and (iv) the introduction of new legislation establishing additional
conditions for local communities to manage public funds (see next paragraph). In some cases, the
process from sub-project approval to disbursement of funds to beneficiary communities took
more than 350 days.

Introduction of new decentralization laws. Bureaucratic red-tape, in terms of decentralization
policies and regulations had a strong impact on implementation of community subprojects. Even
though the Project put in practice measures to simplify requirements for beneficiary communities
to handle public funds, in 2002 the Guatemalan Assembly passed a new set of laws to strengthen
decentralization. These laws increased the requirements with respect to the legal recognition and
conditions to transfer financial resources to local community organizations for the administration
of subprojects' implementation. Consequently, in 2002/2003 community subprojects'


                                                  9

implementation and disbursements were delayed for a year while the PCU staff developed new
procedures and provided the corresponding training.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Project outputs and outcomes identified at design and appraisal did not have specific targets and
were not carefully monitored by either the PCU or FONAPAZ, as neither entity developed an
adequate monitoring system to follow up on project progress. Key indicators such as the number
of subprojects approved, implemented, and cancelled each year or the level of funds allocated by
subproject and by social sector, were not monitored adequately. It was only towards the last
stages of the Project's implementation period that the PCU was able to clean up the database and
gather fairly good data and analysis to carry out proper monitoring.

The quality of the information collected to follow up on the Project's progress and performance
was also questionable. The data gathered to monitor and supervise the Project mainly referred to
output indicators and little effort was made to establish the linkage of Project's broad objectives
with the associated outcomes. Moreover, both FONAPAZ and the PCU lacked a proper
monitoring and evaluation system for the Project. The so called ex-post evaluations carried out in
2003 and 2006 failed to follow a rigorous methodology to measure the impact of subprojects and
Project activities. Instead, these evaluations were beneficiary surveys rather than impact
evaluations with counterfactuals, carried out to gather the perceptions of beneficiary communities
and families.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)
Safeguards. No major problems arose due to subprojects implementation in the area of
environmental impacts. All investment subprojects followed environmental procedures and
environmental assessment criteria as part of their technical evaluation defined in the Operations
Manual.

The PCU adopted some measures to improve indigenous communities' participation in the
Project. First, to ensure participation of all municipalities (including those with indigenous
population), on a yearly basis the PCU identified the poorest that had not benefited from a
subproject, visited and encouraged them to participate. Second, in the case of indigenous
communities, the PCU hired bilingual facilitators (PCU staff in charge of providing support for
communities to formulate subprojects, hire contractors and participate in the subproject cycle)
belonging to the community. Third, in many communities the Project was observant of
indigenous cultural belief systems. For example, in some cases a shaman was invited to bless the
site of forthcoming subprojects and lead the launching of works; in others, assemblies to define
priorities about subprojects were chaired by a local elder. As stated in the objectives, since
preparation the project paid attention to Indigenous communities, and about 60 percent of loan's
funds financed subprojects for indigenous communities.

Fiduciary Aspects. Financial audits were carried out on an annual basis and financial reports were
complied in accordance with international standards. However, the audit reports provided by
FONAPAZ for fiscal years 2003 to 2006 were late according to deadlines included in the Loan
Agreement. Furthermore, up until 2004, independent financial audit reports informed that
FONAPAZ failed to comply with 17 regulations, including the lack of an adequate financial and
accounting system. Other aspects highlighted by the audits included FONAPAZ's inability to
take remedial action in 14 suspended sub-projects, and the failure to report the use of local
counterpart funds equivalent to 10 percent of the cost of sub-projects.



                                                10

The Project started up without a properly structured and fine-tuned Operations Manual, including
the financial management chapter. The audits and other evaluations found that FONAPAZ and
the PDL lacked an accounting system able to generate regular Project's financial statements
("estados financieros"). Reports were usually completed in Excel spreadsheets highly vulnerable
to errors. Although the Bank supervision team and the financial audits detected these weaknesses,
FONAPAZ and the PCU made insufficient efforts to solve them.

Finally, as is the case of all social investment fund spending in Guatemala, PDL's resource
allocation was not subject to the SIAF (Spanish acronym for the Government's financial
administration system), which prevented central authorities from having an oversight of
expenditures and undermined the transparency of social funds activities.

Procurement: Due to the dispersed and remote location of many of the communities in the Project
area, the CDD subprojects were to follow procedures for community participation in procurement
through local shopping and direct contracting. However, out of the 347 subprojects completed,
only 12 followed a strict CDD approach, using local shopping and direct contracting. The
overwhelming majority of subprojects, including those approved following Hurricane Mitch,
procured their goods, services and civil works through NCB (National Competitive Bidding) and
hired private contractors with the technical support of the PCU staff. As mentioned elsewhere, the
Project suffered high staff turnover which particularly affected procurement activities and led the
Bank to downgrade the procurement rating several times.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)
Shifts in Government policy related to the management of social funds management and
decentralization affected Project sustainability and institutional capacity. Since the early 1990s
the Government of Guatemala has created about a dozen social investment funds. In addition to
so-called social funds that are in fact specific programs attached to line ministers, at least four
large social funds (allocating public spending equivalent to 2 percent of the GDP) operated until
2003 ­FONAPAZ, FIS, FODIGUA (indigenous social fund) and FSDC (community
development social fund, which was transformed into an automatic transfer to departmental
councils in 2003). These four social funds, but particularly FIS and FONAPAZ, overlapped in
terms of areas of intervention and types of activities (subprojects) to be financed and used similar
mechanisms to implement subprojects ­the traditional top-down scheme. On average, social
investment funds targeting of the poorest is questionable. Social Funds were administratively
expensive for the Guatemalan Government, vulnerable to political intervention and lacked
appropriate mechanisms to coordinate with line ministries.

The new Guatemalan administration, in office since early 2004, has launched a policy to
modernize social and rationalize their investments. Under this strategy, the Government aims at
improving coordination among social funds' resources in the short term, and seeking options for a
more fundamental reform in the mid-term, either merging some of the large social funds or
focusing their efforts. The new strategy, though barely implemented, created an environment of
instability within the FONAPAZ administration that affected the institutionalization of programs
such as the PDL. More recently, the Government decided to discontinue FIS and currently it is in
the process of closing it down; no new operations with FIS have been authorized.




                                                11

Moreover, the institutionalization of matching grants or scaling up of CDD schemes in
FONAPAZ or any other social funds is unlikely. In both cases, the recently-approved laws on
decentralization and community councils make it increasingly difficult for the PDL to use or
apply any of those mechanisms. Current budgetary practices make the institutionalization of these
models in Guatemala difficult, as an increasing proportion of public spending ­even at subproject
level financed by social funds- is specifically defined ex-ante at the Assembly level (Guatemalan
Congress); this is, specific sub-projects are defined when the budget is discussed. Contrastingly,
intergovernmental transfers from the central to sub-national authorities (constitutional allowance
­situado constitucional­ to municipalities and automatic transfers to development councils) have
grown significantly (reaching over one percent of GDP); as a result departmental and local
governments are now receiving significant funding to finance autonomously their priorities. For
these reasons, together with the limited impact on strengthening capacity, it is difficult to
envisage any follow-up operation that would apply the financing schemes designed and tested by
the Project.

From the perspective of individual subprojects' sustainability, subprojects financed under the
Project such as schools or health posts are already being operated and maintained by communities
or the public sector agency in charge of their operation. However, surveys carried out in 2003 and
2006 showed that although beneficiary community organizations provided satisfactory marks for
subproject outcomes, the operation and maintenance of the subprojects in general were perceived
as unsatisfactory. Throughout project implementation, PCU staff gave little attention to the
provision of maintenance training workshops, mainly due to the lack of well-prepared capacity
building programs. As an example, in 2005, only 24 workshops on subproject operation and
maintenance were carried out, out of the 82 planned at the beginning of the year. These results
reflect the fact that FONAPAZ and the PCU implemented the Project following the top-down
approach used by prevailing traditional social funds at that time, as opposed to the bottom-up
CDD approach originally designed. As communities were not really involved in implementing
subprojects, they were also not involved in operation and maintenance.

The Bank has advised the Government on the design of a strategy to approach the future of social
funds (both the executive and legislative). During this process, some of the lessons from the
Project were likely taken into account (see section 11). More recently, as a result of CAS
preparation, the Bank has supported the Government's strategy to promote local development
through models focused on improving local autonomy, accountability and decentralization.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
The main development objectives of the Project were extremely broad ­improving the living
standards of the families living in two very poor departments in Guatemala. As expected, such
broad objectives still remain relevant in terms of the prevailing needs of a large proportion of the
population living in remote rural areas. The basic needs of the country's rural communities with
high poverty incidence have not been completely addressed. This is especially the case for
education, health, water and sanitation, roads and other rural infrastructure. In particular, current
poverty and inequality indicators in the Project's areas of intervention ­San Marcos and
Huehuetenango­ still lag well behind national averages. Furthermore, given the level of
community organization in Guatemala, a demand driven approach accompanied by adequate
technical assistance still seems to be relevant to identify and address some basic local needs.




                                                  12

The Project's goals in terms of improving capacity building and strengthening institutional
arrangements, coordination within sector line agencies, and efficiency at national and sub-
national levels also remain relevant. The capacity and institutional building of entities in charge
of the social sectors still require improvement in coordination and effectiveness; managing social
funds at central and departmental government levels, as well as in the quality and transparency of
public investments are high priorities in Government's current agenda to modernize the state,
improve effectiveness of social spending and rationalize social funds.

Nevertheless, the Project's institutional arrangements are no longer relevant in the current
administration's decentralized approach to foster local development. In the past, public
interventions in remote and very poor rural areas relied heavily on social funds. However, the
GOG has recently put in place a policy to support these communities to address unmet basic
needs through different instruments. As mentioned earlier, the GOG is channeling increasing
amounts of resources directly through municipalities and departmental councils, while
rationalizing existing social funds. This shift in the strategy has been already put in practice
through several measures such as increasing intergovernmental transfers to local governments
and departmental community councils and taking steps to shut down the largest social fund in
Guatemala (the FIS). This shift in policy was precipitated by the view that the largest social funds
have failed to evolve into modern central government agencies to support local development in a
context of decentralization and increased local autonomy. On the contrary, social funds in
Guatemala are seen to be very centralized agencies. In this regard, the use of traditional social
funds to support local development is no longer seen as an option and hence relevant in the GOG
strategy.

Additionally, the PCU scheme such as that used to carry out the PDL is no longer seen as the best
alternative to implementing specific interventions and projects. Countries' and Bank priorities are
increasingly focused on strengthening institutional and administrative structures to carry out
operations and improve sustainability and institutional change to address specific needs. Besides,
the particular arrangements used to implement PDL based on a separate PCU, created a parallel
structure at the regional level, which left little capacity to improve the Government's institutional
and administrative organization. Establishing the Project's PCU ­with a mandate to implement
the Project­ in San Marcos where FONAPAZ also had a field office, resulted in poor
coordination, lack of ownership by FONAPAZ, and inefficiency.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)
To improve the living standards and self-development in the municipalities of San Marcos and
Huehuetenango through support for the planning, execution and maintenance of small-scale
social, economic and cultural subprojects. This objective was partially achieved. Even with
implementation delays, shortage of local counterpart funds and cancellation of more than US$10
million of loan funds, FONAPAZ estimates that the Project benefited about 350,000 people and
near 50,000 families (about 70 percent of the 500,000 originally intended at Project appraisal).
However, it should be noted that reaching this goal implied the expansion of the area of
intervention in the last two years of project implementation. Despite the lack of a proper measure
of Project's impact, beneficiary surveys indicate that overall subprojects provided beneficiary
communities with access to basic infrastructure services such as schools, health centers, roads,
water and sanitation. Consequently, these communities are expected to have improved their living
standards. During the last two years of implementation (before the Closing Date), the Project
successfully carried out a demand-driven approach to execute subprojects using matching grants.
This scheme proved to be a very effective instrument for mobilizing local resources, improving


                                                   13

collaboration between local governments and organized communities and addressing local needs.
Under the matching grants model, subprojects under the Project also proved to be efficient in
targeting very poor communities. In its early stages, the Project also supported Government's
efforts to address the emergency generated by Hurricane Mitch.

The Project also partially achieved other quantitative targets, implementing 347 subprojects for a
total of $16 million of loan funds. Seventy two percent of those funds financed CDD subprojects,
23 percent were used to support Government efforts in the Mitch emergency in 1999 and 5
percent served to pilot the matching grant scheme in 2004-2006. About half of the finalized
subprojects were construction or rehabilitation of schools, while additional 40 percent consisted
of roads, water and sanitation and electrical systems subprojects.

Beneficiary assessments conducted in 2003 and 2006 showed an acceptable level of satisfaction
of beneficiary families with both CDD implementation schemes and matching grants. During
implementation, communities actively participated in subprojects' identification and formulation
with the support of the PCU, and subprojects usually responded to their priorities. According to
these assessments, beneficiaries had a satisfactory perception of the increase in access to water
supply, as well as of the reduction in travel time to markets or other centers of social and
economic activity outside the community. However, they expressed a partially satisfactory
evaluation of perceived potential improvements in their income due to Project investments and
maintenance and operation of subprojects is perceived as poor, and is acknowledged to be a
weakness in the subproject cycle by the Borrower in its Project Completion Report (Annex 10).

Despite minor shortcomings, and some inefficiency in the subproject cycle, communities in the
rural areas of San Marcos and Huehuetenango departments improved their access to basic
infrastructure and social services as a result of the Project's investments. Therefore, it is expected
that their living standards rose as a consequence of the Project. Furthermore, in a post-conflict
context, in which basic infrastructure suffered considerable damage, this is certainly a relevant
achievement, regardless of the method of subproject implementation.

To strengthen the capacity of local governments and local community organizations to address
the most critical needs of the populations they serve. This objective can be assessed at two
separate levels: community and municipality. At the community level, the objective was partially
achieved. PCU staff took the responsibility of providing technical capacity building to
communities, and despite several shortcomings, was able to empower them to make efficient and
educated decisions to implement subprojects. Therefore, the indirect technical assistance provided
by the PCU had formed an integral part of the PDL. However, it is important to mention that the
PCU was never fully staffed to comply with these tasks properly, and therefore the outcome was
less than expected. Consequently, the number of formal training programs fell well behind of
what was originally envisaged at appraisal. Despite there is not a rigorous evaluation to measure
the impact of capacity building activities to communities, a beneficiary survey conducted in 2003
showed that in over 75 percent of the sample of CDD sub-projects, organized groups were unable
to implement another sub-project because of their lack of knowledge about procedures and
institutional arrangements governing the process. The same survey also shows that in over 70
percent of completed subprojects, community organization for maintenance and operation was
weak or inexistent. Less than satisfactory maintenance and operation of subprojects certainly
undermined the medium-term sustainability of the Project's supported investments.

At the municipal level, The Project's development objective to strengthen capacity of local
governments was not achieved. Particularly under the CDD approach, the Project hardly involved



                                                  14

municipalities in the subproject cycle and the PCU provided little assistance to enhance their
institutional capacity. Activities were limited to pre-investment studies in some municipal
subprojects. Although during the last years of Project implementation municipalities were more
actively involved through the matching grants scheme, technical assistance by the PCU did not
improve significantly. Failure to reach this development objective undermined achievements in
terms of institutional change and longer-term sustainability of subprojects. Furthermore, it also
undermined collaboration between communities and local government which may well affect
future participatory processes.

Communities' and municipalities' weak managerial capacity also impacted the sustainability of
the subprojects. The lasting impact of a CDD subproject depends on the technical capacity of the
beneficiary community to sustain the services. The underachievement of this development
objective - strengthening the capacity of local governments and local community organizations-
may have a negative impact, weakening institutional capacity in various aspects such as
identification, prioritization, formulation and project operation and maintenance, as it was shown
by the 2003 survey.

In addition, due to the absence of an efficient strategy to build capacity at the community level,
the CDD approach was implemented in very few sub-projects since the Operations Manual
(including the complete subproject cycle for the CDD scheme) was only finalized in 2003. From
then on, the Project was able to apply a fully-formed CDD approach in only 12 subprojects; this
is, only in those 12 cases did beneficiary communities identify, plan and manage the subproject
funds, and administer directly the works. In the remaining (more than 300) sub-projects,
implementation followed a traditional approach.

Although the Project improved local communities' capacity somewhat, it failed to reach its
ultimate goal of empowering local organized communities and strengthening institutional
capacity for local development in marginalized areas, in a context of decentralization. Most of the
funds allocated to strengthening capacity of communities and municipalities were not used and
were cancelled in 2005 and 2006 compromising the achievement of the Project's development
objective.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
Due to the nature of the PDL ­demand driven approach­ and because neither benefits nor costs
could be computed ex-ante, it was agreed at appraisal that no estimate for economic analysis
could be performed for the Project. Thus, it was agreed that the economic evaluation criteria
would be reflected in the Project's Operations Manual and applied during evaluation of individual
subprojects, when appropriate. In addition, at that time, the Bank team proposed that the PCU
would conduct annual ex-post evaluations (including economic analysis) of a sample of
subprojects and incorporate them in the Annual Operating Plan for the following year. However,
the methodology for economic evaluation was not included in the Operations Manual, nor were
annual ex-post evaluations carried out.

The Operations Manual did include a system for estimating unit costs by subproject and specific
guidelines of proper technical design and procurement requirements to be followed by the
communities. This led to increasing competition among contractors and lower unit costs for basic
infrastructure such as school construction and roads. Thus, the selection of subprojects was based
on least-cost and best alternative. For the matching grant process, the Project designed and



                                                 15

applied a formula to rank subprojects and foster competition, quality, focus on poverty, and local
co-financing.

The Project's overall efficiency was undermined by a set of factors. First, the Project took more
than seven years to reach completion and used only two thirds of the loan funds allocated. This
resulted in two loan Closing Date extensions and the cancellation of more than $10 million in
loan funds. Second, the Project and FONAPAZ failed to design and implement adequate and
timely monitoring and evaluation systems, and as a result failed to generate reliable data to follow
up Project progress during most of the implementation period. Third, institutional arrangements
based on parallel structures without coordination and reciprocal support (a PCU located on the
field competing instead of collaborating with FONAPAZ headquarters and field offices), high
rotation of PCU positions and ongoing understaffing led to high administrative cost and severe
shortcomings in the subproject cycle.

Finally, the GOG cancelled a third of loan's funds basically because disbursements were too slow
and project implementation was inefficient. This highlights the fact that the Project had the
potential to benefit the original target of half a million people living in highly underserved areas
of the country. The opportunity cost of those $10 million is substantial and clearly affected the
achievement of Project development objectives not only in terms of the number of expected
beneficiary families, but also in terms of capacity building and sustainability of subprojects.
Government's decision to cancel those funds was based on the longer subproject cycle, the fiscal
ceiling imposed to FONAPAZ and the new Administration's determination to revisit its strategy
for supporting local development. Indeed the PCU staff would not have used the funds because
they did not have a clear vision and lacked the adequate support from FONAPAZ authorities.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory.

There is no independent evaluation of the Project measuring whether Project's interventions
improved the living standards of the population in San Marcos and Huehuetenango. Available
evidence indicates that the Reconstruction and Local Development Project improved the living
standards of a significant proportion of very poor rural and Indigenous population living in highly
underserved departments through the implementation of 347 sub-projects. However, Project
success in terms of benefiting a large proportion of families was seriously undermined by poor
achievements regarding capacity building, lack of ownership by FONAPAZ, absence of
maintenance and operation, low efficiency of Project implementation and present irrelevance of
Project's institutional arrangements for fostering local development. Therefore the overall
outcome of the project is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

In addition, even though the Project's objectives still remain relevant, the model that the Project
supported for achieving them does not. The less-than-satisfactory efficiency of the PDL, as well
as other social fund-related interventions are at the core of Government's decision to seek
alternative strategies to foster local development. Institutional arrangements supporting Project
implementation failed to transfer to FONAPAZ and local authorities the means to strengthen
local capacity and address community needs. On the contrary, the lack of proper involvement of
governmental institutions led to poor ownership of the Project and it is also likely to affect
subprojects' sustainability. Therefore, the Project's current relevance is rated moderately
unsatisfactory.




                                                  16

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
There is not an evaluation to rigorously measure the impact of the Project on poverty reduction.
Project targeting was satisfactory. Identification of municipalities where the Project would
intervene was completed during project preparation. This selection was based on poverty
indicators and areas affected by the armed conflict, ensuring that the Project's benefits would
reach highly underserved areas and families. Surveys in 2003 and 2006 based on representative
samples show that the majority of subprojects were implemented in the poorest areas and were
operating properly (e.g., the schools had teachers, desks, blackboards and materials, the health
centers had health staff). Even the matching grants-implementation of subprojects also succeeded
in reaching very poor municipalities. Indeed, about 60 percent of funds benefited Indigenous
families, usually the poorest segment of the population.

Regarding gender issues, the Project required that at least 50 percent of community organizations
boards' members would be women. In the 2003 survey, all boards of the sample had at least one
woman as a member (roughly half of Project's requirement). However, further research showed
that women never occupied key positions among community organizations. Usually, women had
voice and vote, but little participation in the decision making process. Participation of women fell
over the last four years of the Project as in 2006 only seven out of ten boards in the sample had at
least one woman as a member.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
Several aspects undermined the Project's ability to foster institutional change and improve
Governmental capacity to address local needs and promote local development. First, the
administrative and institutional arrangements to carry out Project's activities did not promote
institutional strengthening as such. Instead, the Project functioned on the basis of a PCU located
in San Marcos. Despite the advantages that such strategy may bring about in terms of direct
support to local communities, these arrangements led to a parallel structure in the region, as
FONAPAZ also had a field office in San Marcos. The absence of clear responsibilities of the
PCU and FONAPAZ regarding project process led to increasing lack of ownership and
institutionalization of the program. The PDL and its staff were always treated as a separate
program by FONAPAZ and little progress was achieved in terms of sharing information,
administrative support, feedback and coordination. Therefore the institutional impact of project
implementation with reference to longer-term capacity and institutional development of
FONAPAZ is negligible.

Second, because of the Government's lack of ownership for capacity and institutional building,
the resources assigned for this component in the loan were not disbursed, and the Project focused
on activities to support the institutional development of local communities' organizations in the
area of San Marcos and Huehuetenango through PCU staff. In particular, with CDD subprojects,
the Project assisted local communities in identifying their needs, formulating subprojects, hiring
consultants and private contractors, managing their own resources and in some cases, operating
their own subprojects. Very little attention was paid to local municipalities or to FONAPAZ.

Overall, even though local communities may have gained some capacity to implement
subprojects, results from beneficiary surveys (in 2003 and 2006) show that they still lacked the
ability to be involved autonomously in new interventions. Equally important, there is no evidence
that the Project fostered institutional change and strengthened capacity of municipalities. This
outcome may undermine the sustainability of subprojects in the medium-term.


                                                  17

While gains from this matching grant scheme cannot be fully evaluated due to the long-term
horizon expected for the benefits, this mechanism strengthened municipal participation in (i)
development and co-financing of subprojects, (ii) improving coordination and interaction
between beneficiary communities, and (iii) training local governments in terms of planning,
identification, financing, implementation and operation of subprojects.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
At the request of the GOG, the Project supported the implementation of the subproject emergency
program in response to damage caused by Hurricane Mitch. This program helped to restore basic
transit in key roads, and included the design and rebuilding of several bridges and roads, as well
as restoring damaged schools. The Project financed and implemented 80 emergency
reconstruction subprojects.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
Beneficiary surveys carried out in 2003 and 2006 indicated that local communities had
participated in most of the stages of the subproject cycle and, in general, the communities were
well organized for the identification and planning of the subprojects. The survey also indicated
that the PDL investments were targeted to the country's rural areas and on Indigenous
communities with high poverty incidence levels.

During subproject implementation, the survey also showed that local communities participated
actively in the subproject formulation, though to a lesser extent in resources administration,
procurement of contractors, hiring of supervisors and subproject management. It also revealed
that the subproject implementation process and community participation were satisfactory. Both
surveys show the quality of subprojects is considered adequate, while operation and maintenance
is viewed as less than satisfactory.

The institutional strengthening of local community organizations was perceived as unsatisfactory.
In the first survey (2003), capacity building at community and municipal levels is rated as
unsatisfactory. In 2006, the survey indicates that ownership and commitment with specific
subprojects from local authorities is low.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial
The risk to development outcomes brought by the PDL is substantial. Shifts in government
priorities related to social funds management, lesser attention paid to capacity building and
limited training in operation and maintenance pose a threat to sustaining the possible gains
reached in improving the living standards of nearly 350,000 beneficiaries. Sustainability of
subprojects depends mainly on the quality of operation and maintenance activities and on
beneficiaries' commitment to the projects, given their empowerment to undertake such activities.

In the long term, sustainability of CDD subprojects can occur only if there is an institutional
intervention at the central or departmental level together with adequate financial resources to
invest in operation and maintenance activities. Consequently, since the government's policies in
terms of decentralization and social funds management have changed in terms of focus and
priorities, it would be necessary to find alternative schemes to provide support for supervising the
current operation and maintenance of the subprojects managed by local communities.




                                                  18

Regarding subprojects financed under the matching grants scheme, the risk to development
outcomes is lower since their implementation was framed under municipal strategic development
plans and on average 50 percent of subproject cost was financed by municipalities. These plans
include activities such as inter-institutional coordination and interaction between local
committees, community groups and municipal authorities. It can be expected that these
subprojects will have greater sustainability and ownership by the local governments as well as
positive impact in the long run to beneficiary communities.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The project was prepared by a multi-disciplinary team with additional inputs from social sector
experts. The project preparation team conducted a detailed analysis of the socio-economic
infrastructure and of the needs of indigenous people, especially people living in extreme poverty.
The Project's overall objectives vis-à-vis country context and the needs of the targeted area at
appraisal was satisfactory. Nevertheless, project preparation was less than satisfactory. The broad
Project objectives were not linked to annual measurable performance indicators and no
mechanisms were set up to ensure proper monitoring and evaluation. Even though the overall
strategy based on using a social fund to support local communities seemed adequate at the time,
the team failed to provide mechanisms to ensure appropriate coordination with line ministries in
charge of sector investments (e.g., Education, Health and Communications and Infrastructure) as
well as with other social funds (in particular, FIS which had a parallel operation financed by the
Bank).

Finally, the Bank team failed to ensure that a proper Operations Manual would be completed and
ready for use before project effectiveness. In hindsight, perhaps greater emphasis could have been
given to aspects such as developing the institutional capacity building components, improving
design of the Project's institutional arrangements, and requesting completion of the Operations
Manual which established the CDD subproject approach as a condition of effectiveness. Low
quality at entry and weak preparation affected project implementation and supervision.

For the abovementioned reasons Bank's performance during project preparation stage is rated
moderately unsatisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Supervision of the project was well funded and staffed and during most of project implementation
and the Bank provided in situ support to FONAPAZ through specialized advisors located in
Guatemala. Furthermore, the Bank's country office continuously supported project
implementation at both the: technical and fiduciary levels. Supervision may have been affected by
the high rotation of Task Managers, particularly during the first four years of Project
implementation when the Project had four different Task Team Leaders (TTLs).

During the entire Project implementation period, the Bank's supervision team demonstrated
awareness of the particular country circumstances and flexibility regarding needed adjustments.



                                                 19

At the beginning of project implementation, the Bank reacted quickly to support Government
efforts to address damage caused by Hurricane Mitch. In 2004, when a new Guatemalan
administration took office with a clear mandate to modernize social funds, the Project design was
adjusted to support Government efforts at two different levels: at the strategic level, the Project
supported the newly created steering committee to improve social investment coordination and
define a medium term reform to social funds. At implementation level, the Project introduced the
matching grants scheme. Additionally, the Bank supervision team, working with the Bank office
in Guatemala, was very proactive in proposing alternatives to improve social funds performance.

As a result of project supervision, several actions and measures to improve project
implementation were taken, including: (a) a new detail-oriented Operations Manual, (b) a special
effort to improve collaboration between FONAPAZ and the Project to support communities to
overcome procedural problems arising from decentralization laws and thus solving a major
bottleneck in project implementation.; (c) implementation of a matching grant mechanism to
foster disbursements and municipal participation, and (d) cancellation of US$ 7.1 million due to
slow disbursement accompanied by a carefully defined action plan to implement a reasonable
number of sub-projects accompanied by a plan to improve capacity at a local level. In addition,
as required by the GOG, Component B of the project was amended to support the new
administration's proposal to rationalize social funds in the country, among other activities.

However, Bank supervision efforts should have been more proactive in engaging government to
find and carry out measures to expedite project implementation in a timely manner, including: (i)
developing an operational work plan to implement the Project's capacity and institutional
building components, (ii) speeding the approval of the Operations Manual, (iii) revising and
adjusting the CDD model approach, to adjust to changed realities and (iv) improving approval,
procurement and disbursements procedures to make them more in line with an efficient
subproject cycle.

Furthermore, during this early period, the Bank team did not participate as actively as envisaged
in the "Annual Project Implementation Reviews." The PAD recommended four missions a year
during the first two years, one of which should have been executed as a joint Annual
Implementation Review with FONAPAZ. The latter did not occur nor did the execution of the
evaluation study that should have taken place beginning with a baseline during the first year of
project execution.

Over the last years of project implementation, the Bank supervision effort was focused mainly on
improving Project implementation regarding Component A ­sub-projects. In doing so, the team
worked actively with and supported the GOG in developing alternatives to overcome technical,
capacity-related, and institutional problems that have been delaying project progress.
Nevertheless, the team underestimated the potential impact of the inadequate implementation of
components B and C (capacity building and institutional building), which proved fundamental to
ensure Project sustainability and promote institutional change. Moreover, the team did not always
raise red flags in a timely manner regarding such problems.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
On the basis of the performance stated in the above paragraphs, the Bank's overall performance is
rated moderately unsatisfactory. Project preparation was conducted on the basis of close
involvement of the institutions in charge of social funds and on the context of the Peace Accords.
However, significant shortcomings during preparation led to less than satisfactory project
readiness for implementation, which eventually affected most of the Project life. Supervision had


                                                 20

mixed results: although the Bank proactively responded to Government needs and addressed
Project problems, the Supervision team overlooked critical aspects of project implementation,
particularly those related to Components B and C of the Project.

On the basis of the overall performance during preparation and implementation stated in the
previous sections, the Bank's role in the Reconstruction and Local Development Project is rated
as moderately unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
During preparation, the Borrower's contribution was significant and consistent with the project
design. The Project was formulated in a highly participative fashion, including several institutions
of the GOG, FONAPAZ and the Bank. During implementation the Borrower's performance was
unsatisfactory due to the shortage of counterpart resources and to the fiscal ceiling imposed on
FONAPAZ, which resulted in smaller allocations of funds to the PDL and longer subproject
implementation periods. Poor implementation of the decentralization laws seriously affected
subproject implementation, and disbursements often took more than 180 days, and in some cases
360 days or longer. It can be stated that Government performance during a significant part of the
Project directly caused implementation delays compromising the achievement of project
development objectives.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory:
Implementing Agency                                  Performance
Fondo Nacional para la Paz                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

In terms of project management, FONAPAZ showed a lack of commitment, unnecessarily
slowing down the approval of subprojects, curtailing budget for subproject implementation, and
slowing down the hiring of the PCU's staff when required. A critical issue affecting the Project
during most of its implementation process was FONAPAZ's lack of ownership and related
shortcomings in providing adequate administrative, technical, and financial support. PDL was one
of several projects managed by FONAPAZ, during about half of the implementation period, and
management attention and priorities were usually focused elsewhere.

PCU
Despite the high rotation of personnel and some shortcomings, PCU performance, overall, was
moderately satisfactory. After the first few years, when political intervention to staffing the
Project was relatively solved, the PCU assumed well its responsibilities for providing technical
assistance to beneficiary communities to execute their subprojects under CDD and matching grant
schemes. It also assisted local organizations and some municipalities in processing bids that
followed Bank procedures. The PCU achieved considerable physical targets in terms of
subprojects (347) for CDD, matching grants schemes and the Mitch emergency program.
Nevertheless, the PCU failed to develop a proper M&E system, and to implement a
comprehensive strategy to assist communities and local authorities in capacity building and
institutional strengthening. There were also notable weaknesses in financial management and
internal control, affecting overall project's efficiency.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory



                                                   21

Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory for the reasons stated
above. The GOG and FONAPAZ should have showed stronger commitment and ownership in
order to achieve the Project development objectives and ensure that they could be sustained in the
longer term.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)
Project Design and Policy implications
Prepare upfront an Operations Manual incorporating key project design features, prior to loan
effectiveness. As part of project design, an Operations Manual describing a summary framework
of the Project's design, policies, definitions, indicators, procurement procedures, guidelines and
plans needs to be prepared and approved by the Bank prior to loan effectiveness. For this project,
two versions of an Operations Manual were prepared. The first unwieldy version needed to be
replaced by a more user-friendly and detailed-oriented edition that included a more
comprehensive approach to community participation. The last version also included an illustrated
mini-manual for beneficiary communities, prepared with a very participatory approach, as well as
a CD version. The completion of an Operations Manual by the Borrower, prior to loan
effectiveness, is key to a more effective initial project implementation.

Prepare a baseline study before the start up of Project implementation to have a reference for
monitoring project progress. Baseline data, including output, outcome and impact indicators,
should have been collected at the preparation stage for meaningful future comparisons and
refocusing of project activities if needed. In the case of the Project, the lack of a baseline study
made it difficult to measure the performance of subproject investment in terms of key socio-
economic indicators. Even though a beneficiary assessment was performed in order to gather
stakeholders' comments and analyze the perception of the beneficiary communities, it was not a
substitute for a rigorous program evaluation.

Design Project and Institutional Arrangements to ensure commitment and ownership at the
Government level. The experience of this Project illustrates the lack of commitment and
ownership at the Government level. Even though Government authorities expressed their
commitment to the PDL at appraisal, they failed to adopt the agreed measures, in terms of
financing, local counterpart contributions and policy arrangements, to fully implement the Project.
Special attention to Government priorities and needs, and adaptability to a changing economic
context must be considered at the preparation stage to avoid delays at project implementation.
Additionally, the implementation and institutional arrangements failed to incorporate adequate
mechanisms to improve coordination and support between the Project and FONAPAZ.


Project Implementation
Incorporate a participatory approach in Project throughout implementation to foster
ownership and sustainability. Project experience illustrates the value of community participation
as an important input along the project cycle. In the PDL, as stated in the Project's design, a
participatory approach was to ensure success in terms of: (i) expanding access to public social
services; (ii) increasing productive opportunities for the poor through the provision of basic
socio-economic infrastructure identified by the community itself; and (iii) providing technical
knowledge for the beneficiaries in subprojects' operation. Even though this experience has shown
successful results in terms of community involvement at the identification, design and
implementation stages, it has also shown that often commitment of beneficiary communities
decline during operation and maintenance stages. In order to avoid this, permanent training



                                                  22

activities and communication strategies must be put into practice to assure the sustainability of
subprojects.

Develop adequate inter-institutional coordination mechanisms at the local level to ensure local
governments' participation and ownership to improve subprojects sustainability. The Project's
participatory approach demanded the involvement of community associations, locally-based
organizations, and local authorities (municipalities), especially at the subproject identification and
preparation stages. The quality of the dialogues and strong coordination between the communities
and the local representatives involved allowed the PCU to recognize the needs of the target
population and overcome the difficulties in the early stages of project implementation, thus
assuring its successful execution. However, municipal governments were not involved in the
Project systematically until the last stages of implementation when the Government decided to
carry out a matching grants scheme. The failure to involve municipal governments during most of
Project implementation affected maintenance and operation of subprojects and, even more
importantly, institutional ownership. Their participation in the later stages of the Project also
showed that local governments are a key source of funds for local and community development.
Thus, local authorities' participation and ownership are critical to the success of demand-driven
interventions and local development sustainability, and therefore must be taken into consideration
at the start up of a Project.

Incorporate incentives to mobilize local governments. Municipalities and local authorities were
only marginally involved in the identification, implementation and monitoring of CDD
subprojects. Only over the last two years of the Project, when the matching grants scheme was
agreed and introduced as a model to implement the PDL, did municipalities have a more active
and systematic role in project identification, co-financing and execution. The matching grants
scheme demonstrated that (a) local government participation in Guatemala is a very important
source of funds for local development and basic infrastructure; (b) municipalities are willing to
participate as co-financer of local priorities, as proposals for matching grants more than doubled
available funds and co-financing from municipalities reached 50 percent; and (c) local authorities
are in great disposition to work with local organized communities. Additionally, involving
municipalities to co-manage the accounts where the Project transferred funds for subproject
execution with local communities alleviated greatly most of the procedural aspects that arose as a
result of the decentralization laws, which delayed implementation substantially. In sum, the
process demonstrated that the matching grant scheme has a substantial potential to mobilize local
funds towards specific policy targets.

Use of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system to follow through key outcome indicators.
The project did not develop an appropriate M&E system to assess effectively outputs, outcomes
and impacts. As a result, PCU staff was unable to monitor progress towards fulfillment of
development objectives. Specific measurable indicators and targets and the format of detailed
supervision reports are essential factors to incorporate into project design. The lack of this system
also limited the carrying out of an ex-post and impact evaluation. Developing an M&E data
system, specific measurable indicators and subproject operating targets would have been essential
for monitoring project outputs and outcomes.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
FONAPAZ' comments were generally consistent with the ICR's assessment of the Project with
regard to the outcomes related to investment subprojects achievements (see Annex 10 provided
by FONAPAZ).


                                                  23

Summary of comments received from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) on FONAPAZ's
performance:
The MOF acknowledged that, overall, FONAPAZ implementation was unsatisfactory but that
since the beginning of the Project there was internal and external budget allocated as agreed in the
Loan Agreement. However, FONAPAZ did not entirely execute the loan for several reasons.
Also, the Ministry of Finance reiterated that they processed any administrative processes such as
authorization of signatures, amendments to the Loan Agreement among other documents that
FONAPAZ required in a timely fashion.
Comments provided by the World Bank Team on FONAPAZ's performance:
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) reflects that implementation capacity from
FONAPAZ was a major cause of subprojects' poor results, and as the MOF states the
appropriated budget for the PDL was not used in full. However, particularly in some fiscal years
during the 2000-2004 period, budgetary allocation for PDL activities was lower than required. In
several years, given the described factors affecting sub-project implementation process, a
considerable number of sub-projects had to be financed the following fiscal year.
This situation led to the fact that in several years the budget corresponding to the PDL was not
executed in its totality because most of approved sub-projects had to be implemented and paid the
following year as a result of the long sub-project cycle. Consequently, usually the budget
assigned for a given year was not enough since it had to be used to finance subprojects approved
the previous year.
See Annex 11: Summary of Ministry of Finance comments on Draft ICR (in Spanish). Comments
provided by the Ministry of Finance, in Spanish, were sent by email on December 4, 2006.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A.




                                                 24

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

      Components         Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate     Percentage of
                              (USD M)                (USD M)            Appraisal
COMMUNITY
SUBPROJECTS                            31.5                   25.20             80.0%

CAPACITY BUILDING                       3.0                     0.29             9.7%
INSTITUTIONAL
BUILDING                                3.0                     2.40            80.0%

     Total Baseline Cost               37.5                   27.89             74.4%
Physical Contingencies                  0.0                      0.0
Price Contingencies                     0.0                      0.0
      Total Project Costs              37.5                   27.89             74.4%
Front-end fee PPF                       0.0                      0.0              0.0
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.0                      0.0              0.0
          Total Financing
               Required                37.5                   27.89             74.4%


(b) Financing
                                          Appraisal
     Source of Funds        Type of                      Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                          Cofinancing  Estimate (USD
                                              M)       Estimate (USD M)   Appraisal

 Borrower                                         7.5              4.47         59.6%
 Municipalities                                   0.0              1.57           N.A
 Communities                                      0.0              2.05           N.A
 International Bank for
Reconstruction and                              30.00             19.80
Development
Total Project Costs                              37.5             27.89         74.4%




                                          25

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The overall project assessment of the three components is rated marginally satisfactory.
Component A: Community subprojects (US$31.5 million total cost; $24 million Bank
financing). This component is rated moderately satisfactory.               By the end of project
implementation, PDL financed and carried out three types of subprojects: (i) subprojects
implemented under traditional community-driven development (CDD) arrangements; (ii)
subprojects under Matching Grants with CDD scheme with local contributions from the
Municipalities, and (iii) at the request of the GOG in the first year of project operation,
subprojects for the Mitch Emergency Plan executed by the PCU and FONAPAZ traditional social
fund-interventions based on hiring private contractors to execute the work. This component
financed 347 subprojects and disbursed approximately US$20.2 million out of the US$ 31.5
million originally assigned in the PAD. The difference was cancelled.

Under the community-driven development (CDD) model, PDL financed a total of 249
subprojects, for US$15.02 million. These subprojects reached more than 240,000 beneficiaries.
About 60 percent of financed subprojects were in the area of social infrastructure, the vast
majority of which consisted of construction and equipment of schools (118 subprojects) and
water and sanitation systems (31 subprojects). The other 29 percent of financed subprojects were
in economic infrastructure, which included roads and bridges (50 subprojects) and electricity
systems (21). The remaining 11 percent of financed subprojects were in the areas of: health and
nutrition (6), basic infrastructure (10), forest preservation (3), productive activities and (9)
cultural heritage (1).

Under the matching grants scheme, the PDL financed 18 subprojects, located in 15 municipalities
that encompass the majority of poor and extremely poor populations of San Marcos and
Huehuetenango. This scheme reached 25,000 beneficiaries. The amount disbursed for these
subprojects was the equivalent of US$ 2.19 million. The number of subprojects financed by
sector was as follows: 11 subprojects in water and sanitation area, 4 in transportation sector
including roads and bridges, and 3 in education (construction of schools).

Under the Mitch Emergency Plan, which took place during the first two years of project
implementation, 80 subprojects were financed and executed, investing US$ 3.06 million of the
budget allocated to CCD component. The Plan reached approximately 79,600 beneficiaries. The
subprojects focused mainly in the restoration of transit through rehabilitation of roads and bridges
(31), reconstruction of civil works in affected schools (32), purchasing of school equipment (14),
construction of irrigation systems (1), installation of electricity systems (1), and one subproject in
water and sanitation. These subprojects were executed by consultants and contractors hired by
FONAPAZ, using Bank procurement procedures.

Component B: Capacity Building (US$ 3 million). This component is rated unsatisfactory. This
component supported capacity building for municipal governments and beneficiary organizations
in aspects such as sub-project formulation, planning, evaluation, maintenance and execution. Also,
it was expected to improve the technical and administrative capacity of municipalities and
improve beneficiaries' effectiveness in identifying, planning, executing and finding sources of
funding for subprojects. In hindsight, these activities were very ambitious and in the beginning,
there were no documents that provided guidelines on how to organize the activities. As explained
above, the impact of capacity building activities on local organizations beyond project design and,




                                                  26

in some cases, implementation was negligible, while support to municipal governments and local
authorities was limited to pre-investment studies in few sub-projects.

Given that the purpose of this component was to improve local communities'capacity to manage
funds, contracts for project execution, and maintenance and operation, it may be said that such
goal was achieved in less than 10 percent of the sub-projects implemented under the CDD model;
this is, only in 12 cases subprojects actually followed a CDD approach based on participatory
micro-planning, community management of subproject funds and administration of contracts.
Instead, in the majority of the so called CDD projects, even though identification and partially
formulation had adequate participation of organized communities, the implementation model was
based on outsourcing private firms and contractors. As mentioned above, technical assistance to
municipal authorities was even more limited.

Funds allocation was not fully used. Out of the US$3 million budgeted for this component, only
US$0.2 million was disbursed. In general, low disbursement resulted from: (i) lack of institutional
and technical programming during the first years of implementation; and (ii) budget shortcomings
at the central government and at FONAPAZ, which limited timely financial disbursements and
thus execution of the activities planned under the component. These reasons led the Government
to cancel almost the total of funds allocated for this component in 2005. It is worth noting that,
prior to cancellation of funds in 2005, the Bank team prepared several action plans to improve
output achievements in agreement with FONAPAZ and the government of Guatemala. However,
these action plans were never implemented because of lack of commitment and ownership by
FONAPAZ.

Component C. Institutional Building (US$3 million). This component is rated unsatisfactory
since funds allocation was used to finance mainly the project coordinating administration
expenses (US$2.4 million). The project failed to carry out, following a proper plan, key activities
designed to improve Project's impact in institutional change for subproject management at local
and central levels as well as to improve sustainability of investments. Moreover, most of the
funds were used to finance the PCU but little was done to involve the institutional organization of
FONAPAZ either at central headquarters or its field offices. As mentioned before, this output was
the result of the increased isolation in which the PCU carried out its functions during most of the
project implementation period. It led to two aspects deeply affecting implementation and
eventually achievement of development objectives: (a) a less than satisfactory efficiency of
project implementation partially caused by little support from FONAPAZ; and (b) a poor
ownership from FONAPAZ, increasingly risking project institutionalization and sustainability.

The PCU staff directly assisted beneficiary communities to implement subprojects. The PCU
hired four facilitators on a permanent basis during 5 years and as a result, the participation rate of
the communities increased at the planning, identification, design and implementation stages of
subprojects cycle. These facilitators together with PCU staff and some independent consultants
provided technical assistance workshops focused on cultural heritage, accountability, project
administration, procurement, contract management, supervision and project maintenance.
Training activities were positively received by the local authorities and organizations, as a
necessary input for subprojects completion.

On the other hand, even though most of the funds were used to finance and train PCU staff,
effectiveness of such funds is not clear. For example, ongoing problems regarding procurement
are a direct result of high rotation of PCU staff, an aspect affecting all areas of the Unit. Similarly,
essential tools for project management, such as a proper MIS were poorly implemented. Finally,



                                                  27

low impact on maintenance and operation and limited or inexistent capacity building support to
municipal government show the limited impact of PCU assistance.

Under this component, the Bank approved, at the request of FONAPAZ and GOG, an amendment
to the project component to support government efforts in improving effectiveness of social funds
spending. The amendment incorporated the following tasks: (i) improve coordination of social
funds, (ii) design and adopt mechanisms to improve the quality of public investment; and (iii)
adopt mechanisms to improve transparency of public spending. The achievements reached under
this amendment were greatly undermined because of the difficult institutional arrangements
among social institutions prevailing in Guatemala at that time. The GOG created a Steering
Committee to regulate and coordinate Social Funds. The committee partially succeeded in
implementing measures and coordination among institutions and social funds, and the Project was
able to support regional and central levels of coordination. However, problems derived from
institutional arrangements beyond project scope aroused later on, impeding the committee to
achieve its ultimate goal. Particularly, two important institutions (FIS and the Technical
Secretariat of the Presidency, formerly the Social Fund for Community Development)
transferring funds to and/or investing significant amounts of funds at the local level, had no
active participation and in practice undermined committee's efforts.

Mitch Emergency Program. During the first two years of project implementation, loan resources
were reallocated into the Mitch Emergency Program. Under this program, 80 subprojects were
executed, for around US$3 million, mainly related to restoring transitability through the
rehabilitation of roads and bridges, and reconstructing schools for low-income communities
affected by the disaster.




                                               28

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)
N/A.




                                        29

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
         Names                 Title              Unit         Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Rafael Flores         Task Manager         LCSHD
Juliana Weissman      Task Manager         LCSHD
Supervision/ICR
Manuel Salazar        Task Team Leader     LCSHS-DPT

Patricia O. Orna      Language Program
                      Assistant            LCSHS-DPT

Rene Rodriguez
Heredia               Consultant           LCSHS-DPT



b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                 USD Thousands
                                            No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                   consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY97                                                        27.76
                    FY98                                                       123.13
                    FY99                                                        27.68
                    FY00                                      8                 11.15
                    FY01                                                         0.00
                    FY02                                                         0.15
                    FY03                                                         0.00
                    FY04                                                         0.00
                    FY05                                                         0.00
                    FY06                                                         0.00
                    FY07                                                         0.00
                                     Total:                   8                189.87
Supervision/ICR
                    FY97                                                         0.00
                    FY98                                                         0.90
                    FY99                                                        49.65
                    FY00                                     27                 90.74
                    FY01                                     26                 64.01
                    FY02                                     16                 70.42
                    FY03                                     13                 59.75
                    FY04                                     24                 82.69



                                         30

FY05               16     76.00
FY06               16     67.76
FY07                3     27.18
        Total:    141    589.10




            31

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
In 2003 and 2006 the Project commissioned to external firms independent ex-post evaluations of
a representative sample of subprojects and capacity and institutional building activities financed
or carried out by the PCU. However, given that there was no baseline, the consultancies
submitted beneficiary surveys of the project. Overall results show that Project's beneficiaries are
satisfied with sub-projects. In general, sub-projects addressed their main needs and follow a fairly
participatory process. The quality of subprojects is also satisfactory from the beneficiaries'
perspective and they deliver services as expected. In general, those projects requiring sector line
ministries staff (like teachers, health staff,) were also working fairly well. More specifically, the
surveys showed satisfactory results in the identification and utilization of sub-projects, as well as
benefits delivered from works. Ethnic groups' participation in sub-projects was also satisfactorily
rated. The lowest rate was given to maintenance and operation, and capacity building at
community and local authority levels.

The methodology used in each survey was different. While the first survey computed beneficiary
answers to rate specific activities in a 0-4 range, the 2006 survey presented the results in separate
tables. As mentioned before, even though methodologies were different, overall results are
similar.

The following tables summarize the general results from the 2006 survey.

 Table 1: Community organization (CO) to implement (I), Operate (O) and maintain (M) sub-
projects

                                               CO to I           CO to O             CO to M

                                          Before     After   Before      After   Before      After
Schools                                   93.1%     92.5%     89.3%     89.9%     89.9%      88.1%
Rural roads                               93.3%     92.2%     91.1%     87.8%     89.4%      81.7%
Health Units                              100.0%    100.0%   100.0%     100.0%    80.0%      75.0%
Water supply                              84.5%     83.6%     81.8%     82.7%     72.7%      75.5%
School equipment and materials            84.2%     84.2%     78.9%     78.9%     84.2%      84.2%
Community centers                         100.0%    100.0%   100.0%     85.0%    100.0%      90.0%
Electricity                               90.0%     90.0%     85.0%     85.0%     80.0%      75.0%
Micro-irrigation                          100.0%    100.0%   100.0%     100.0%   100.0%     100.0%
Bridges                                   68.4%     100.0%    68.4%     68.4%     52.6%      52.6%
Sanitation systems                        100.0%    68.4%    100.0%     100.0%   100.0%     100.0%
Letrinas                                  100.0%    100.0%   100.0%     100.0%   100.0%     100.0%
                    Total                  91%       90%      89%        87%      85%         82%
Source: Interviews to beneficiaries




                                                  32

                     Table 2: Adequacy of Sub-projects to actual needs of communities

                                             (1=high; 5=poor)

                                                                               1                                        2              3                               4         5


Schools                                                                      74.2%                           23.3%                   2.5%                            0.0%      0.0%
Rural roads                                                                  73.3%                           22.8%                   1.7%                            0.0%      2.2%
Health Units                                                                 95.0%                                    0.0%           5.0%                            0.0%      0.0%
Water supply                                                                 76.4%                           20.9%                   1.8%                            0.0%      0.9%
School equipment and materials                                               52.6%                           42.1%                   0.0%                            0.0%      5.3%
Community centers                                                            65.0%                           10.0%                   20.0%                           5.0%      0.0%
Electricity                                                                  15.0%                           80.0%                   5.0%                            0.0%      0.0%
Micro-irrigation                                                             0.0%                           100.0%                   0.0%                            0.0%      0.0%
Bridges                                                                      21.1%                           57.9%                   15.8%                           5.3%      0.0%
Sanitation systems                                                           45.0%                           45.0%                   10.0%                           0.0%      0.0%
Letrinas                                                                     60.0%                           40.0%                   0.0%                            0.0%      0.0%
Total                                                                        69%                                      26%             3%                             0%        1%
Source: Interviews to beneficiaries


                               Table 3: Responsibility for Sub-Project Operation

                                                        t
                                                                                                             yt          O      l
                                                                                                 unity's                  NG     ca                ral

                                                                                           group        m      orih                                                               wonkt
                                                                                                                                   Lo                                    Other         n'
                                                         Sub-projec committee   Volunteers                         aut      An                        Cent
                                                                                                         Com                           government          government                    Do

Schools                                              1.9%                     5.0% 3.8% 20.8% 0.0% 0.0% 61.0% 7.5%
Rural roads                                          16.7% 3.9% 6.7% 0.0% 2.2% 0.0% 60.6% 7.8%
Health Units                                         0.0%                     0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 10.0% 0.0% 50.0% 25.0%
Water supply                                         21.8% 7.3% 2.7% 0.0% 5.5% 0.0% 49.1% 13.6%
School equipment and materials                       0.0%                     5.3% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 78.9% 15.8%
Community centers                                    20.0% 0.0% 0.0% 30.0% 0.0% 0.0% 45.0% 5.0%
Electricity                                          50.0% 35.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 5.0% 10.0%
Micro-irrigation                                    100.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Bridges                                              0.0% 10.5% 0.0% 0.0% 26.3% 0.0% 36.8% 26.3%
Sanitation systems                                   0.0%                     5.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 90.0% 5.0%
Letrinas                                             40.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 50.0% 10.0%
                         Total                       15%                      5%                4%                      7%     3%                 0% 56% 10%
Source: Interviews to beneficiaries




                                                      33

                              Table 4: Responsibility for Sub-Project Maintenance

                                               t                                                      yt                        O
                                                                                           unity'
                                                                                                 m
                                                                                  group                 orihtua     affts               l                  ral
                                                                                                                                 NG      ca                                      ne             wonkt
                                                                                                                                           Lo                                      No    Other       n'
                                                Sub-projec committee                                                               An                         Cent
                                                                       Volunteers                 Com          s         Paid                 government           government                          Do

Schools                                     1.9%                     5.0%               6.3%                     0.0% 1.9% 0.0%                          0.0%                 1.3% 73.6% 10.1%
Rural roads                                 6.1%                     6.7% 20.0% 0.6% 0.0% 0.6%                                                           0.0%                 0.0% 58.9% 7.2%
Health Units                               40.0% 0.0%                                   0.0%                     0.0% 10.0% 0.0%                         0.0%                 0.0% 35.0% 15.0%
Water supply                               15.5% 10.0% 9.1%                                                      2.7% 0.0% 5.5%                          0.0%                 0.0% 42.7% 14.5%
School equipment and materials              0.0%                     5.3%               5.3%                     0.0% 0.0% 0.0%                          0.0%                 5.3% 68.4% 15.8%
Community centers                           5.0%                     0.0%               0.0% 35.0% 0.0% 0.0%                                             0.0%                 0.0% 50.0% 10.0%
Electricity                                45.0% 45.0% 0.0%                                                      0.0% 0.0% 0.0%                          0.0%                 5.0% 0.0% 5.0%
Micro-irrigation                           100.0% 0.0%                                  0.0%                     0.0% 0.0% 0.0%                          0.0%                 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Bridges                                     0.0% 10.5% 0.0%                                                      0.0% 5.3% 31.6%                         0.0%                 0.0% 36.8% 15.8%
Sanitation systems                          0.0%                     5.0% 25.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%                                                           0.0%                 0.0% 65.0% 5.0%
Letrinas                                   10.0% 0.0%                                   0.0%                     0.0% 0.0% 0.0%                          0.0% 10.0% 80.0% 0.0%
                 Totals                     10%                      6%                  11%                     2%           1%       2%                0%                   1%       57% 10%
Source: Interviews to beneficiaries




           Table 5: Support and training to institutional strengthening linked to sub-projects

                                      (1=high; 5=poor; N a=No answer/don't know)

                                                                                          1                        2                 3                  4                    5        N a
Schools                                                                                0.0%                      52.9%         5.9%          11.8% 11.8% 17.6%
Rural roads                                                                            21.1%                     57.9%         5.3%          5.3%                 0.0%               10.5%
Health Units                                                                           0.0%                      0.0%          0.0%           0.0%                0.0% 100.0%
Water supply                                                                           10.0%                     40.0%         10.0%         10.0%                0.0%               30.0%
School equipment and materials                                                          0.0%                    100.0%         0.0%          0.0%                 0.0%               0.0%
Community centers                                                                      0.0%                      0.0%          100.0% 0.0%                        0.0%               0.0%
Electricity                                                                            50.0%                     0.0%           0.0%         50.0%                0.0%               0.0%
Micro-irrigation                                                                       0.0%                      0.0%          0.0%          0.0% 100.0% 0.0%
Bridges                                                                                50.0%                     0.0%          0.0%          0.0%                 50.0%              0.0%
Sanitation systems                                                                     100.0%                    0.0%          0.0%          0.0%                 0.0%               0.0%
Letrinas                                                                               0.0%                      0.0%          0.0%          100.0% 0.0%                             0.0%
Total                                                                                   15%                      43%                 8%       10%                            7%      17%
Source: Interviews to beneficiaries




                                                                                 34

                                    Table 6: Community Participation in Sub-Project's Contracts

                                                         (1=high; 5=poor; N a=No answer/don't know)

                                                                                    1             2                3                 4          5      N a
Schools                                                                         11.8%         64.7%             5.9%              0.0%       11.8%     5.9%
Rural roads                                                                     10.5%         68.4%            10.5%              5.3%        5.3%     0.0%
Health Units                                                                     0.0%        100.0%             0.0%              0.0%        0.0%     0.0%
Water supply                                                                     0.0%         60.0%            10.0%            10.0% 10.0%           10.0%
School equipment and materials                                                   0.0%           0.0%            0.0%              0.0%       50.0%    50.0%
Community centers                                                               50.0%         50.0%             0.0%              0.0%        0.0%     0.0%
Electricity                                                                     50.0%           0.0%             0.0%             0.0%       50.0%     0.0%
Micro-irrigation                                                                 0.0%           0.0%            0.0%              0.0% 100.0%          0.0%
Bridges                                                                          0.0%           0.0%            0.0%              0.0%       50.0%    50.0%
Sanitation systems                                                              50.0%         50.0%             0.0%              0.0%        0.0%     0.0%
Letrinas                                                                         0.0%        100.0%             0.0%              0.0%        0.0%     0.0%
Total                                                                            12%            58%               7%               3%         13%      7%
Source: Interviews to beneficiaries




    Figure 1: Participation of Beneficiaries in Training and Capacity Building Activities




              60
                                               50                                                                      50
              50                                        46.9
                          40        41.9
              40
                                                                                                                                                   27.7
              30                                                  25.6         25

              20                                                                                16.3       15.6
                                                                                        8.8                                       11.9
              10                                                                                                                             3.8

               0

            IdentificationPriorizationProcessingormulationEvaluationlementationSupervisionOp
                                                                                           eration
                                              F               Imp                                ministratioMa
                                                                                                           n



                                                                                              Ad            mmunity oritutional strengthening
                                                                                                              intenanceganiza tion              erage
                                                                                                                                               Av




                                                                                                        Co        Inst




                                                                                  35

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
N/A.




                                  36

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
(unofficial translation)
1.       Quality at Entry
We believe we have satisfied the quality at entry elements. We consider that Project objectives
were consistent with the Bank's Guatemala Assistance Strategy and the priorities of the
Government of Guatemala for attention to populations living in extreme poverty, and support for
the inclusion of the GRCs (Community Organizations) in the formulation, procurement, and
execution of their projects and administration of the funds. Furthermore, we continued to
strengthen the planning and programming of activities that lead to the economic development of
the education, health, and productive development sectors, infrastructure, etc.

II.      Achievement of Objectives and Results
The Project has been satisfactorily implemented, although the programmed objectives and
goals--physical, financial, environmental, and social--were not fully met. During its most recent
administration, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was strengthened by the recruitment of a
specialist in local development, a procurement specialist, two financial assistants, and three
subproject supervisors. Furthermore, community support was achieved through execution of
subprojects intended to address the emergency created by Hurricane Mitch, community
development subprojects, and competitive funds subprojects, taking into consideration the
components of Project implementation.
Although two-thirds of the loan funds were used, benefits reached approximately 374,014
residents of the Project influence area owing to execution of 347 subprojects. This represented a
74.8 percent coverage of beneficiaries, compared with the half million originally targeted. This
percentage is considered to be an achieved social goal and, therefore, a satisfactory achievement
of objectives.

III.     Results and Products Obtained, per Component
3.1      Component A ­ Community Projects
During the original evaluation of the Project, no baseline was established that would permit
comparison of the proposed indicators with the products obtained per component. Therefore, we
will now identify as Project results the achievements per sector: 1. Health Sector (US$190,000).
The primary health care system was strengthened by building five health posts and equipping one
of them. This benefited approximately 10,200 people. 2. Water and Sanitation Sector (US$3.71
million). Through 43 community water and sanitation subprojects (during which, we wish to
point out, 3,489 household connections were made), drinking water coverage was expanded and
its quality improved, which resulted in better quality of life and improved health of a beneficiary
population of approximately 35,900 people. 3. Education Sector (US$5.37 million). Access to
basic public education services was improved, especially in areas where such access was difficult
or nonexistent. Support has been provided for efforts made by parents' associations (Coeducas) in
the administration of primary schools within the PRONADE model. Furthermore, an institute for
elementary education has been built, featuring a total of 12 classrooms and capacity for 500
students per shift. This will enable students from the municipality of Concepción Tutuapa, in San
Marcos department, to complete their primary school studies. Approximately 135,000 people
have benefited from these subprojects. 4. Electrification Sector (US$1.15 million). It was
determined that electrification subprojects should be implemented via the national electric power
grid and that solar energy should be used to bring remote communities closer to their surrounding
environments and improve vision health. 5. Road Infrastructure Sector (US$8.35 million). As
support for productive activities, access road subprojects were financed that will facilitate
movement of people, food, and materials etc. and improve communications for the communities
thus served. 6. Other Sectors. Other subprojects were financed in the following areas: Basic



                                                 37

Infrastructure (US$530,000), Conservation and Reforestation (US$110,000), Generation of
Productive Activities (US$730,000), and Cultural Heritage (US$120,000).
3.2      Components B and C: Improving Institutional Capacity and Institutional Strengthening
The institutional strengthening training plan was formulated as a result of the need to develop
skills within local governments and organizations of beneficiaries in the various aspects of
subproject formulation, planning, evaluation, financing, maintenance, and execution. Therefore,
at the start of the Project, the PCU adopted a work methodology designed to strengthen the skills
and capabilities of the people involved in the different processes, both in FONAPAZ and in the
communities, and to develop instruments and tools by which they could achieve the proposed
objectives.
In June 1999, the Participatory Micro-Planning Process was implemented, with validation and
implementation of the instruments that had been developed for the Participatory Community
Diagnosis (PCD). The methodology adopted was based on the completion of a series of
participatory processes that led to the shaping of the PCD and the community development plan
that later became tools for negotiations with government and nongovernmental agencies.

IV.      Follow-up, Monitoring, and Evaluation of Subprojects
PCU supervisors made periodic visits to the construction sites that were part of the subprojects
included in Component A of the Project. This allowed proper oversight of physical progress and
heightened awareness of the problems that arose so that they could be solved. In addition,
external supervision was arranged for the competitive funds subprojects. Payment for such
oversight was considered to be part of the cost of the subprojects and was covered by
Bank/Project contributions and contributions by the respective local governments.
Subproject evaluation was done by PCU professionals who had expertise in the subject matter.
Furthermore, advisory services were available from the Costs Department of FONAPAZ main
offices, which have available updated quarterly information and specific formats for the different
kinds of subprojects, and ways to quantify the costs of each. This was taken as the reference price
for the awarding of each subproject.

V.       Project Sustainability
Project sustainability is at risk because no provision whatsoever was made for follow-up or
continuation of similar activities following completion of the PDL. In contrast, sustainability has
been assured for subprojects operation and maintenance because the social skills-building and
preparation of specific manuals were intended to motivate and convince the communities to do so.
Despite the fact that these processes could not be completed, such motivation was achieved in a
high percentage of the subprojects carried out.

VI.      Problems that Affected Project Implementation
Changes in Personnel. The most important factor affecting project implementation was the
turnover in project coordinators. The PCU had four different coordinators between July 1999 and
January 2005. Only since then has the same coordinator been in place. This turnover prevented
continuity of the work begun in order to execute the items covered in the Operations Manual, and
consequently hindered Project progress. Among the circumstances that resulted from the above,
we note the following: (i) the PCU supervision unit did not have enough personnel to follow-up
on subprojects between 1999 and 2004; and (ii) in 2004, the personnel responsible for internal
auditing and legal services were laid off, a factor that adversely affected internal control and the
legal advisory services required by the Project.
In addition, high rates of personnel turnover in 2004 prevented provision of the advisory services
that local governments needed in order to set up their files and execute their subprojects using the
Competitive Funds system. Nor did the Project have, from the outset, a procurement specialist
who could expedite the quoting and bidding procedures necessary for the award of subprojects. It


                                                38

was only at the end of 2004 that such an expert was available. The lack of timely supervision
during the initial phases of subproject execution did not allow for proper monitoring and follow-
up.

VII.    Other Problems. In the following paragraphs, we will identify other problems that
affected Project execution:
1.      The institutional and procedural relationship between FONAPAZ and the PCU received a
"satisfactory" rating. Lack of adequate coordination between the two hampered the cooperation
needed to facilitate the procedures involved in Project execution. It appears that the higher
echelons of FONAPAZ lacked clarity regarding their functions within the Project and their
authority vis-à-vis the PCU.
2.      FONAPAZ central offices offered little support to the Project. This is reflected in the
slow pace of subproject approval by FONAPAZ, owing to bureaucratic procedures, a factor that
affected the execution of Component A.
3.      It was necessary for the GRCs (Community Organizations) to obtain cuentadancias (a
Government account issued to manage Public funds by Non-Governmental Organizations or
Community Organizations) from the Comptroller General of the Nation's Accounts and have
them legalized by the departmental government so that they could handle public funds. However,
this process proved to be bureaucratically cumbersome at both institutions.
4.      Fiscal ceilings affected Project execution in terms of disbursements. Every year there was
an upper limit that prevented spending beyond the amount stipulated during each fiscal year. On
some occasions, expenses remained from the preceding year and affected the following year; this
depleted the funds available.
5.      Budgetary restrictions caused delays in the adjustment of project-related expenditure
owing to the fact that when funding under a specific budget item was unavailable, transfers from
other budget headings with available funding had to be requested, resulting in complicated
procedures at the Ministry of Finance.

VIII.   Lessons Learned
The Project partially fulfilled the proposed goals and objectives with respect to community
subprojects; 76 percent of the loan amount programmed for this purpose. However, in terms of
skills development and institutional strengthening, the indices of financial execution were low--
skills development at 4 percent and institutional strengthening at 9 percent. We believe that those
who administer the PCU paid no attention, or did not realize that a significant volume of funds
was available for these components within the PAD. They were concerned more with the physical
works (which are visible) than with local development.

The results with regard to maintenance of subprojects are satisfactory, since most of the
beneficiaries have assumed a moral and financial commitment with respect to implementation.
One positive experience gained during Project implementation was the execution of subprojects
through the Community Execution procedure. We were able to observe that the beneficiaries are
truly interested in the subprojects, that they manage funds well, and that execution was highly
satisfactory to them. In addition, execution via the competitive funds procedure made it possible
to verify that resources were properly allocated, that local government authorities were interested
in proposing subprojects and contributing their own funds, and that members of the communities
participated in the oversight of execution of those projects. Some of the other lessons learned
during Project execution are indicated below.

Design. (i) Familiarity with the rights and obligations of the organizations established in
agreements or contracts facilitated the strengthening of the various processes and very active
participation during subproject execution; and (ii) adequate funds needed to hold information


                                                39

workshops and training for members of the communities should be made available, because it has
been proven that the personalized attention of the PCU, using a simple methodology compatible
with the interests and needs of the communities facilitated, through knowledge, the empowerment
of individuals, and thus of their organizations, to fulfill their rights and obligations and to demand
that others do likewise.

Implementation. (i) The involvement of all PCU personnel in becoming acquainted with the
realities in the communities via field visits and campaigns to raise awareness, to inform, to train,
and to resolve problems, led to better identification with the beneficiaries, who consistently
expressed satisfaction with the attention they received; and (ii) during the training procedures
leading to the award of subprojects, we asked that women be included among the three appointed
representatives of the communities, since many of them had assumed responsibility for checking
quantities and costs. If women are to be given greater opportunities, the right spaces need to be
created and visible evidence provided of the importance of their participation.

Operation: (i) The processes of raising awareness of the importance of the operation and the need
for maintenance were accepted and implemented by members of the communities who, now
convinced, are continually coming forward to seek information and assistance in carrying them
out; and (ii) there were certain administrative and financial weaknesses in the Competitive Funds
procedure as employed by local governments. A more direct follow-up is required than was
possible given that no auditor had been specifically assigned to the Project. However, the Bank's
establishment of restricted deposit accounts for use between the Project and the local government
ensured that the funds intended for subproject execution were not diverted.

IX.      Role of the World Bank
The World Bank, by following up on Project implementation, within the framework of the
strategies and objectives set by the central government, has played a very important role in terms
of benefits to the communities, as a priority system for this country's economic and social
development. Nevertheless, we do not believe that it has exercised sufficient supervision over
Project implementation because it did not promptly comment on the poor execution of the skills
development and institutional strengthening components. It is important to emphasize that the
Bank's efforts during the Hurricane Mitch emergency were timely, substantial, and of great
assistance in management of the subprojects and the restoration of the works projects, the
willingness to allocate funds, and the evaluation and supervisory missions it dispatched during
this period of crisis.

XI. [sic]         Role of the Borrower
Participation by the borrower during the implementation of this Project was not satisfactory (NS),
mainly because it was characterized by budgetary limitations and difficulties with transfers of
funds to FONAPAZ. Sometimes FONAPAZ had to resort to using its own funds until the foreign
funds arrived, a factor that adversely affected the overall budgetary and financial execution of the
Project. Borrower participation during the legalization of the line of credit and satisfaction of the
conditions that had to be met prior to the first disbursement was effective, and permitted timely
startup of Project activities.

Owing to the satisfactory achievement of many of its objectives, a "satisfactory" rating was given
to FONAPAZ in the Implementation Completion Report. Examples include subproject execution,
strengthening of community groups through empowerment, training them to plan their own
subprojects and manage financial resources, and giving them the authority to perform the social
audit. It bears noting that coordination between the PCU and FONAPAZ took place through the



                                                  40

International Cooperation and Projects managers at the central offices of FONAPAZ. Contacts
with the PCU related to liaison with the financial entity; in the case of FONAPAZ, the focus was
on technical aspects and matters related to physical execution of the subprojects.




                                                41

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
During the last two years of implementation, the Project introduced a matching grant model to
disburse funds for sub-projects. The model was based on a much active participation of local
governments in identifying, implementing and co-financing of projects. Funds from local
government reached 50 percent of sub-projects costs on average. As a result, local governments
were the only co-financer. The following paragraphs present a translated summary of comments
submitted from majors who participated in the matching grants scheme. These comments were
gathered during a mission in July 2006.

Sipakapense Linguistic Community Cultural Center
The center's management hired an architect to design a building in which bilingual classes could
be taught to teachers in the area, and which included facilities such as a music room, a library,
and others. The architect carried out the design according to what he had been taught in school:
anti­seismic structures, foundation and probable number of attendants, adequate rooms for
management, teaching, and meeting. He forgot, however, what no Mayan architect would: the
objective of the building, which was to rescue and strengthen people's own culture, languages,
customs, and ethnic morphology. Ethno-engineering, whose purpose is to incorporate the social
and cultural characteristic of the beneficiaries as well as the environmental aspects of their habitat,
was totally ignored.

With the work already in progress, PDL personnel, center directors, and authorities from the
Academia de Lenguas Mayas agreed to stop construction and apply, as much as could be,
elemental guidelines of ethno-engineering. Fortunately, among PDL personnel there was an
architect with a clear grasp of the concept of respect for indigenous cultures. She promoted a
cooperative workshop and was instrumental in implementing the required changes: spaces for a
museum, thematic murals, Mayan ornaments and ceremonial areas, as well as technological
advances, such as wide band for satellite internet and a special room for music lessons.

Today, the Sipakapense Linguistic Community Center, situated en the midst of the valley which
gives its name is not a common center, but a building which houses the hopes and goals of an
ethnical and linguistic community made up of more than 9,000 families, and which stake its claim
in the concourse of Guatemalan inter­culture weave. This center is not an empty shell, since it
has been equipped by PDL, the Academy of Mayan Languages, city hall, and the parish. It's not a
white elephant either, since an average of 115 students attends daily, and the operation of the
Center is ensured by funds from the Academy, tuition fees, and funds from the NGO Inter Vida.
As a result of the success of this idea, the Academy of Mayan Languages has signed an
agreement with FONAPAZ to make 15 more buildings under the same guidelines and standards
used in the project.


Cuya' School
This is one of 12 projects financed by PDL, which was executed directly by the community from
the start. It consists of 16 classrooms, one headmaster's office, and two batteries of bathrooms.
Construction was handled by the community and supervision of the work and of resources was
handled by a committee also appointed by the community.

A school with the same characteristics takes 12 weeks to build; the community did it in a bit
under 8 weeks. FONAPAZ technical guidelines indicate that floors must be made of polished
cement; the community used ceramic tile. Technical guidelines established one meter of polished
cement on bathroom walls, the community covered them with porcelain tile up to one and a half
meters to make cleaning easier. The contractor's profit usually amounts to 12% while the saving



                                                  42

of the community fringe on 25%. A part of these savings has been used to buy computer
equipment, and to prepare the roof for a second floor, and there are still US$ 4,300 left over for
the financing fund.

Construction of the San Luis Huispache Road
This started as the opening of a tertiary path (from a village to the municipal highway), with
compacted material and drainage installations. The project was abandoned more than two years
ago by the contractor due to the death by suicide of the company's owner. According to
Guatemalan Law, in the case of a contractor's death, the courthouse must perform a series of
actions which are never carried out in a community so poor and distant. Additionally, the owner
had left debts amounting to US$ 8,000. After two years of creditor claims and a total absence of
lawyers and judges, the community, encouraged by PDL, decided to take over the project. It hired
an engineer, paid the contractor's debts, settled accounts with the heirs of the deceased, prepared
a work plan, and finished the road in less than 9 weeks, to the satisfaction of the 126 families
which comprise the 4 settlements which will benefit from it (corn, fruit, and bean and potato
growers). With the first rains, two sectors of the road had to be closed, but two days later the
villagers had reopened the road: the benefits of something called "ownership".




                                                 43

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Concept Document, September 9, 1997.
2. Project Appraisal Document, June 26, 1998
3. PSRs and ISRs reports.
4. Beneficiary Surveys 2003 and 2006.
5. Aide Memories.




                                            44

Annex 10. Community Subproject Statistics

                    Table 1: Number of Beneficiaries per Sector Subprojects


            Sector               Men        Women        Children        Total   Families

 Health and nutrition sector        1,332       1,310         1,017        3,659        506

 Water and sanitation
 sector                            11,041      12,568        12,672       36,281      6,017

 Education sector                  37,079      37,643        34,358      109,080    16,898

 Electric energy sector             4,822       4,991         6,579       16,392      2,338

 Road infrastructure sector        27,349      28,184        19,519       75,052    17,950

 Basic Infrastructure sector        2,512       2,442         2,189        7,143      1,177

 Conservation and
 reforestation sector              16,357      17,586        13,693       47,636      5,243

 Productive activities sector      13,264       9,141        11,568       33,973      4,255

 Cultural heritage sector           5,225       4,857         6,790       16,872

 Total                            118,981     118,722       108,385      346,088    54,384


                           Table 2: Subprojects by Sector and Financing


                                                              Source of funds
           Sector              Number of
                               subprojects     IBRD/IDA           Local          Total

Health and nutrition sector         6                  148.4             39.1          187.5

Water and sanitation sector        43                 2,894.1           816.5        3,710.6

Education sector                   167                4,211.8         1,162.6        5,374.4

Electric energy sector             22                  850.1            304.7        1,154.8

Road infrastructure sector         85                 6,693.2         1,661.5        8,354.7

Basic Infrastructure sector        10                  410.6            118.1         528.6

Conservation and
reforestation sector                3                   85.4             21.9         107.3

Productive activities sector       10                  557.1            171.3         728.4

Cultural heritage sector            1                  107.9             18.1          126.0

Total                              347              15,958.6          4,313.6       20,272.2




                                               45

                       Table 3: Costs and Number of Subprojects per year




                           Number                           Year
         Sector          and cost of                                              1999-
                         subprojects  1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006      2006

Health and nutrition       Number                               1      2    2    1     6
sector                       Cost                            0.02   0.06 0.10 0.01  0.19

Water and sanitation       Number             1     1     2     4     11    5  19    43
sector                       Cost          0.09  0.11  0.22  0.34   0.57 0.38 2.00  3.71

                           Number       15   22   16    32     13    10   26   33   167
Education sector
                             Cost     0.08 0.63  0.49  0.69  0.29   0.36 1.23 1.60  5.37

                           Number             1     4     6     4      2    3    2   22
Electric energy sector
                             Cost          0.10  0.10  0.31  0.19   0.11 0.16 0.18  1.15

Road infrastructure        Number        2   22     6    15    10     18    4    8    85
sector                       Cost     0.03 1.36  0.83  1.84  0.87   1.87 0.33 1.23  8.35

Basic infrastructure       Number                   1     6     2      1             10
sector                       Cost                0.04  0.38  0.08   0.03            0.53

Conservation and           Number                         1                      2     3
reforestation sector         Cost                      0.01                   0.10  0.11

Productive activities      Number                   2     1     1      3    1    2   10
sector                       Cost                0.10  0.06  0.05   0.23 0.06 0.23  0.73

                           Number                                           1          1
Cultural heritage sector
                             Cost                                        0.13       0.13

                           Number       17   46   30    63     35    47   42   67   347
          Total
                             Cost     0.11 2.18  1.67  3.50  1.83   3.24 2.39 5.34 20.27




                                             46

                       Table 4: Costs and Number of Subprojects per region

                               Number and                       Region
            Sector               cost of
                               subprojects   I        II     III      IV    Others Total

                                 Number          3       1        1        1            6
Health and nutrition sector
                                  Cost        0.07    0.04     0.03     0.05        0.19

                                 Number        11        3        9      10     10    43
Water and sanitation sector
                                  Cost        0.88    0.26     0.65     0.92  1.00  3.71

                                 Number         34      21       55       28    29   167
Education sector
                                  Cost        1.21    0.87     1.60     0.92  0.77  5.37

                                 Number          5                2      15           22
Electric energy sector
                                  Cost        0.36             0.08     0.71        1.15

                                 Number        23       30      13         9    10    85
Road infrastructure sector
                                  Cost        2.28    2.83     1.27     0.83  1.14  8.35

                                 Number          4       2        4                   10
Basic infrastructure sector
                                  Cost        0.25    0.07     0.21                 0.53

Conservation and                 Number          1       1                 1            3
reforestation sector              Cost        0.04    0.06              0.01        0.11

                                 Number          3       2        3        1     1    10
Productive activities sector
                                  Cost        0.20    0.23     0.16     0.08  0.06  0.73

                                 Number          1                                      1
Cultural heritage sector
                                  Cost        0.13                                  0.13

                                Number         85       60      87       65     50   347
            Total
                                  Cost        5.42    4.36     4.00     3.52  2.97 20.27




                                             47

Annex 11. Summary of Ministry of Finance comments on Draft ICR (in Spanish)
The Ministry of Finance encompassed its comments on FONAPAZ performance.


XI. Papel del Prestatario
El papel del prestatario durante la implementación del proyecto fue satisfactorio (S), ya que desde
el inicio del proyecto se presupuesto tanto recursos como internos según lo establecido en el
Convenio de Préstamo, sin embargo debido a diferentes razones FONAPAZ no ejecuto en su
totalidad dichas asignaciones especialmente lo relativo a la fuente 52 (Préstamos Externos), por
ejemplo en el año 1,999 se ejecutó un 16.10% de Q19.20 millones asignados al Préstamo BIRF
4379-GU, en el año 2002 se le asignaron Q40.55 millones de los cuales no se utilizaron Q13.57
millones, durante los 7 años 6 meses de ejecución del proyecto el mismo se ejecuto en forma
lenta no utilizando en su totalidad las asignaciones presupuestarias asignadas por el Ministerio de
Finanzas Públicas a FONAPAZ para el préstamo BIRF 4379-GU, asimismo en la formulación
anual del presupuesto a ser utilizado por el proyecto este no concordaba con la ejecución real del
mismo, por lo que se requería, por parte de la Unidad Ejecutora, se realizaran transferencias
Presupuestarias las cuales no se presentaban en algunas ocasiones correctamente justificadas lo
cual significaba un mayor tiempo para su trámite. Asimismo en relación a los trámites
administrativos requeridos por FONAPAZ a este Ministerio como lo fueron registro de firmas,
Enmiendas al Contrato de Préstamo y otros, se realizaron oportunamente ante el Banco Mundial
cuando estos fueron requeridos. Su participación durante la etapa de legalización del crédito y
cumplimiento de las condiciones previas al primer desembolso fueron efectivas, permitiendo esto
el inicio oportuno de las actividades del Proyecto.




                                                 48

Annex 12: Results Framework Analysis (See detailed information on PDO
Indicator (s) on the attached table).



(a) PDO Indicator(s) - from Project Appraisal Document
                            Original Target Values        Formally       Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator       Baseline
                   Value         (from approval        Revised Target       at Completion or
                                   documents)               Values            Target Years

Indicator 1 : The number of subprojects financed by category and project type.

                            Traditional CDD
                            projects: 249; Matching
Value
                            grants: 18; Sub-projects
(quantitative or Zero                                                   347
                            to support Mitch's
Qualitative)
                            reconstruction efforts:
                            80

Date achieved               06/30/2006

                 Despite the lack of a proper measure of Project's impact, beneficiary surveys
Comments
                 indicate that overall subprojects provided beneficiary communities with access
(incl. %
                 to basic infrastructure services such as schools, health centers, roads, water and
achievement)
                 sanitation.

Indicator 1.1 : Health and nutrition sector: Improve access to services.

                            Number, quality and
Value                       variety of health and
(quantitative or Zero       nutrition programs                          6
Qualitative)                formed under the
                            project.

Date achieved               06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

                 Water and Sanitation Sector: Greater coverage and better quality to improve
Indicator 1.2 :
                infrastructure, training, hygiene, and prevention of contamination.

Value
                            Number, quality and
(quantitative or Zero                                                   43
                            variety of subprojects.
Qualitative)

Date achieved               06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


                                                  49

                 Education Sector: Improve access to state services, including community-run,
Indicator 1 .3:
                 bilingual, multi-grade schools (PRONADE).

                            Number of parent
Value
                            associations formed and
(quantitative or Zero                                                   167
                            participating in the
Qualitative)
                            PRONADE Program.

Date achieved               06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

                 Electric energy sector: improve access to electrical services in remote
Indicator 1.4 :
                 communities aiming at improving population's vision health.

Value
                            Number of subprojects
(quantitative or Zero                                                   22
                            completed.
Qualitative)

Date achieved               06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

                 Road Infrastructure Sector: improve roads to facilitate
Indicator 1.5:
                 communication/transportation between urban centers and rural communities.

Value
                            Number of access road
(quantitative or Zero                                                   85
                            subprojects financed.
Qualitative)

Date achieved               06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 1.6: Basic Infrastructure Sector: Improve access to services.

Value
                             Number of subprojects
(quantitative or Zero                                                    10
                             completed.
Qualitative)

Date achieved                06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

                 Conservation and Reforestation Sector: Improve management and conservation
Indicator 1.7:
                 of natural resources.



                                                 50

Value                       Number of resulting
(quantitative or Zero       productive projects                          3
Qualitative)                and/or initiatives.

Date achieved               06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

                 Productive Activities Sector: Improve Human resource capacity for production
Indicator 1.8:
                 and commerce.

Value                       Number and type of
(quantitative or Zero       training grants/activities                   10
Qualitative)                financed.

Date achieved               06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

                 Cultural Heritage Sector: Restoration of historic documents, sacred and
Indicator 1.9:
                 ceremonial sites of historic value.

Value
                            Number and type of
(quantitative or Zero                                                    1
                            subprojects financed.
Qualitative)

Date achieved               06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2:     The number of beneficiaries reached (women, families, and communities).

                            500,000 beneficiaries      Geographical
Value                       living in 16               area extended to
(quantitative or Zero       municipalities of San      all municipalities 370,000
Qualitative)                Marcos and                 of both
                            Huehuetenango              departments

Date achieved               06/30/2006

                 Even with implementation delays, shortage of local counterpart funds and
Comments
                 cancellation of more than US$10 million of loan funds, FONAPAZ estimates that
(incl. %
                 the Project benefited about 350,000 people and near 50,000 families. About 70
achievement)
                 percent of the 500,000 originally intended at Appraisal.

Indicator 3 :    The number of technical assistance and training events.

Value                       Number of Training                            5



                                                 51

(quantitative or           events aimed at
Qualitative)               Institutional
                           Strengthening.

Date achieved              06/30/2006

                Even though the PCU provided indirect technical assistance that had formed an
                integral part of the PDL, it is important to mention that the PCU was never fully
Comments        staffed to comply with these tasks properly, and, as expected, the provided
(incl. %        capacity building and institutional strengthening was less than expected.
achievement)    Consequently, the number of formal training programs fell well behind of what
                was originally envisaged at appraisal.




                                                 52

