Document of                      M          C
The World Bank
FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
RpWt No. P-2849-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
TO INDIA
FOR THE
FARAKKA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
June 9, 1980
ITb  docauent ha a restrited dlbos and may be ndb recbpients emily i he popfman     I
their official duoits comtents siy ot oterwtie he diod wiaot wor  flsk autherlmtio.|



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit  -  Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1           -   Paise 100
US$1           -   Rs 8.4
Rs 1              US$0.1190
Rs I million   =   US$116,047.62
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change.  As of May 30, 1980,
the exchange rate was Rs 7.9 to US$1.0).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT
ARDC     -   Agriculture Refinance and Development Corporation Limited
GOI      -   Government of India
CEA      -   Central Electricity Authority
DVC      -   Damodar Valley Corporation
NHPC     -   National Hydro Power Corporation, Limited
NTPC     -   National Thermal Power Corporation, Limited
REB      -   Regional Electricity Board
REC      -   Rural Electrification Corporation, Limited
SEB      -   State Electricity Board
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Program
kV       -   kilovolt - 1,000 volts
kWh      -   kilowatt-hour - 1,000 watt-hours
MW       -   megawatt = 1,000 kilowatts
GWh      -   gigawatt-hour - 1,000,000 kilowatt-hours



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
FARAKKA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
CREDIT/LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:          National Thermal Power Corporation Limited.
Amount:               US$250 million (US$225 million IDA,
US$25 million Bank).
Terms of IBRD Loan:  a) Interest Rate:  8.25 percent per annum.
b) Commitment Fee: Standard.
c) Repayment Term: Over 20 years, including five
years' grace.
Terms of IDA Credit: Standard.
On-Lending Terms:    From GOI to NTPC, with repayment over 20 years, including
five years' grace, at an effective interest rate of
10-1/4% per annum. The exchange risk will be borne by
GOI.
Project
Description:         Installation of the first stage (three 200 MW coal-fired
generating units) of the Farakka thermal power station,
in the State of West Bengal, together with ancillary
equipment and related works, about 410 km of associated
400 kV transmission lines, and a training simulator.
Potential risks associated with the timely implementation
of the project will be minimized by NTPC's previous exper-
ience in installation of a number of similar 200 MW units
and by technical assistance from review consultants and
management and information system consultants who have
broad experience in major construction programs of this
nature.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 1.1 -
Estimated Costs:                                              US$ millions
Local   Foreign   Total
Preliminary Works                  11.6       -        11.6
Civil Works                        60.7       1.0      61.7
Electrical and Mechanical
Equipment                      162.0      31.7      193.7
Coal Handling and
Transportation                  21.9       3.9       25.8
Transmission                       26.5      3.5       30.0
Training Simulator                  0.1       2.9       3.0
Engineering and Administration  30.0         0.2       30.2
Duties and Taxes                    8.9       -         8.9
Base Cost                  321.7      43.2      364.9
Contingency (physical)             16.6       2.5      19.1
Contingency (price)                98.8     16.3      115.4
Total Project Cost         437.1      62.3      499.4
Total Project Cost Net
of Duties and Taxes       428.2      62.3      490.5
Financing Plan:                                               US$ millions
Local    Foreign  Total
IDA Credit                        187.7    37.3       225.0
Bank Loan                             -     25.0       25.0
GOI Loan and Equity                249.4      -       249.4
Total                         437.1    62.3       499.4
Estimated
Disbursement:                                        US$ Millions
Bank FY          FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87
Annual            20    65    85    15    25    25    15
Cumulative        20    85   170   185   210   235   250
Rate of Return:       13%.
Appraisal Report:   No. 2976a-IN of May 27, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
AND LOAN TO INDIA FOR THE
FARAKKA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$225 million on
standard IDA terms, and a proposed loan to India in an amount equivalent to
US$25 million, to help finance a project for the construction of the first
phase of a proposed Farakka thermal power station. Amortization of the loan
would be over 20 years, including five years' grace, at the standard Bank
interest rate. The proceeds of the credit and loan would be onlent by the
Government to the National Thermal Power Corporation Limited, for 20 years,
including five years' grace, at an interest rate of 10-1/4% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2933-IN, dated May 1, 1980), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 12, 1980. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large and diverse country with a population of 663 mil-
lion (in mid-1980) and an annual per capita income of US$180. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the
labor force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. The share of agriculture in GDP at factor cost (measured in 1970/71
prices) has declined from 59.6% in 1950/51 to 40.7% in 1978/79. The share
of industry has increased over the same period from 14.5% to 22.7%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor force,
nor to bring about the substantial economic transformation that has led to
higher productivity and rapid urbanization in some other developing countries.
The urban population was 18% of the total in 1960, and is 21% now.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past.  The trend growth rate of
GDP was 3.7% per annum from 1950/51 to 1978/79. Slow growth in agriculture --
2.5% per annum over the same period -- has constrained overall growth, not only
because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce foreign
exchange has often been required to import food. Industrial valued-added has
grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and 1978/79, but this
growth has not been as high as in many other countries, nor as high as required
if the overall growth of the economy is to be accelerated. Slow growth has
1/   Parts I and II of this report are the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Rajasthan Water Supply Project (Report No.
P-2831-IN), dated June 2, 1980.



- 2 -
persisted despite a quite creditable domestic saving and investment performance.
Gross domestic saving more than doubled from 10% of GDP in 1950/51 to 24% in
1978/79. Similarly, gross domestic investment as a fraction of GDP rose from
10% in 1950/51 to just over 24% in 1978/79. Foreign savings have never financed
a large portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during
the early 1960s; by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to much
lower levels. External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and
in per capita terms. Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP.
5.        Except during periods of balance of payments crisis, exports have
received relatively little emphasis in India, which has primarily pursued a
strategy of import subsitution. As a result, India's share of world trade
has fallen consistently since 1950/51.  The volume growth of exports between
1950/51 and 1978/79 averaged only 3.0 per annum. The volume of growth of
imports over the same period has slightly exceeded that of exports. During
the early 1970s, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant
during the 1960s, deteriorated drastically, spurring a relatively rapid period
of export growth through the mid-1970s. For the five years ending in 1976/77
the volume of India's exports grew on average over 10% per annum, demonstrating
that sustained rapid growth was possible. While expanding world markets, par-
ticularly in the near-by Middle East, contributed to this process, adjustments
in trade policies designed to improve the profitability of exports played a
major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 4.7%,
2.8% and 7.3% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a marginally
better growth performance than the long-term trends from 1950/51 to 1975/76.
However, GNP is expected to have declined by about 3% in 1979/80 as a result
of the drought-induced decrease in agricultural production and input con-
straints in other sectors, bringing recent trends back in line with the long-
term picture. Industrial production stagnated in 1979/80, largely due to
shortfalls in the production of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement,
as well as constraints in the provision of infrastructure, notably power and
transportation. As a consequence of these developments, the remarkable price
stability that characterized the Indian economy after 1975 came to an abrupt
end at the close of fiscal year 1978/79. During the Spring and Summer of
1979 the price index rose sharply, so that by September it stood at 18.4%
above that of the previous September. Foodgrain prices rose over the Summer
and Fall of 1979 but in most markets still prevailed close to the Government's
ration prices. Low income groups in urban areas were assured adequate sup-
plies of grain at stable prices through the public distribution system. The
substantial stocks of foodgrains also provided resources for a large-scale
drought relief employment program for low income groups in rural areas.
7.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and appro-
priate policies over the past few years are becoming increasingly evident and
have withstood the test of a severe drought. Agricultural production, which
had increased by 14.5% in 1977/78 and 3.4% in 1978/79 to record levels each
year, fell about 8-9% in 1979/80. Foodgrain production is estimated to have



- 3 -
declined from 131.4 million tons in 1978/79 to 118-120 million tons in 1979/80.
Considering that 1979/80 was a year of acute drought, coming after two succes-
sive years of record output, the foodgrain production achieved - still the
fourth highest in Indian history - provides a measure of the contribution that
expanded irrigation, extension and other inputs have made to Indian agriculture.
Furthermore, the capacity of India's irrigation potential to counteract drought
conditions was not adequately tested because of the diesel shortages which
inhibited the utilization of groundwater resources. Rapid growth in the use
*           of basic inputs for agricultural production has continued.  Additions to the
area under irrigation have almost doubled from 1.3 million hectares during the
five-year period ending in 1973/74 to about 2.5 million additional hectares a
year during the most recent three-year period.  Fertilizer consumption in
1979/80 exceeded five million nutrient tons, a level almost 80% higher than
in 1975/76.
8.        As the new decade begins, the Indian economy is shifting from a
situation of resource surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the
late 1970s, to one of resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken
domestic savings, and the scope for further increases in the latter appears
limited. Marginal savings rates have recently been well above 30% in the
household sector. Future increases in savings will depend largely on enhanced
profitability of public sector enterprises. Impeding resource scarcity is
even more apparent in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and 1978/79 India's
current account deficit had remained comfortably small in relation both to GDP
and to a growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was primarily due to
favorable terms of trade movements and rapidly growing net invisibles which
masked adverse underlying trends in the volume of exports, which has barely
grown since 1976/77. Particularly serious is the evident decline in the
quantum of manufactured non-traditional exports which had contributed much to
the export growth of the first half of the decade. A combination of strong
domestic, and slack international demand, exacerbated until recently by
apparent lessened interest in export promotion, have been the major casual
factors.
9.        In constrast, imports have grown rapidly in volume terms and there
have been important changes in composition. As a result of the accumulation
and maintenance of foodgrain stocks, foodgrain imports - which had been a
traditional item in the balance of payments - have declined to insignificant
levels since 1977/78. Reflecting the impact of the liberalized import policy
adopted by the Government, non-foodgrain imports increased sharply, so that
their level in 1978/79 was over 80% higher than in 1975/76. In large part,
the liberalization in import policy and increase in imports were limited to
raw materials, basic commodities and intermediate goods; consumer goods
remained banned and capital goods imports were permitted only on a selective
basis. Strong new pressures on the balance of payments have developed during
1979/80. The terms of trade again deteriorated markedly as a consequence of
unexpectedly large increases in petroleum prices, which caused the oil import
bill to double in 1979/80, accounting for more than 80% of the total estimated
US$2.5 billion increase in imports, and bringing India's total import bill to
about US$11 billion. Petroleum imports as a proportion of exports now exceed
50%.



-4-
Development Prospects
10.       The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless has a
highly diversified structure and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety
of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways,
telecommunications, roads and ports--is extensive compared to many countries,
although there is considerable scope for expansion as well as improvement in
the utilization of existing capacity. India is also well-endowed with human
resources and with institutional infrastructure for development. Finally,
India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of land, water, and
minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good
economic policies and sufficient access to foreign savings, India has the
capability for managing these considerable resources to accelerate its long-
term growth.
11.       The new Indian Government installed in January 1980 is in the process
of formulating its policies and programs. A new Plan for the period 1981-86 is
being prepared to replace the Draft Five-Year Plan for 1978-83. At this stage
it is not possible to comment on the new development strategy; however, it is
unlikely that the priorities accorded to agriculture and power will be lessened.
Furthermore, developments in India as well as in the world economy during
1979/80 have brought to the surface urgent issues which will need the attention
of policy-makers, irrespective of the broader context of development strategy
that the new Government may adopt. Among these issues are the following:
(a) the bottlenecks in infrastructure and related constraints in production
of several basic industrial inputs; (b) the new policy options emerging in
agriculture; (c) the need to substitute less costly energy sources for imported
petroleum; and (d) the anticipated deterioration of the balance of payments in
the near future.
12.       The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that, relative to existing
demands, the past investment program has led to disproportionally low growth
in certain crucial sectors, namely power, coal, transport services, steel and
cement. Potential output growth in sectors which have benefitted from large
investments in the recent past may not materialize unless these input bottle-
necks are alleviated. In the case of coal, steel and cement, domestic produc-
tion appears to be clearly justified on grounds of comparative advantage, and
the aim of policy is self-sufficiency. All these are tradeable commodities.
Although in 1979/80 they were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate
the shortages, increased short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to
alleviate slowdowns and dislocation in using industries. In the case of
sectors in which there is no option to import--power and transportation--
the planning of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there
is scope for improvement in the shortrun performance of these sectors, major
investments in balancing and modernization programs as well as new capacity
are needed in order to provide adequate and stable growth in the medium term.
The presence of infrastructural constraints and shortages of basic industrial
inputs demonstrates that the expansion of industrial outout leads to competing
claims on scarce resources which must be efficiently allocated among different
industries.



- 5 -
13.       The substantial increase in the world price of petroleum in 1979,
together with the expectation that this pattern will not be reversed in the
near future, raises several issues concerning energy prospects for India.
India imports the equivalent of about 50% of its petroleum consumption. In
order to implement its policy of minimizing dependence on foreign oil, the
Government intends to rapidly expand its oil exploration program, to increase
the utilization of its vast coal reserves and to increase the development of
India's considerable hydroelectric potential. However, recent shortages of
coal and power are symptomatic of operational problems reflecting, in part,
past planning and investment decisions which are inhibiting the timely imple-
mentation of India's long-term conversion program. The interdependencies in
the economy currently make petroleum demand a residual which is contingent
on the operation of many other sectors and which has significant implications
for the balance of payments.
14.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, devel-
opment programs and secular trends all seem favorable for sustaining a period
of high growth during the 1980s. India should end the 1979/80 rabi season
with grain stocks of about 15 million tons, without having imported foodgrains
during the year. This is partly due to the bumper crop of 1978/79, but also
reflects the trends of the last decade which point to a consistent improvement
in foodgrain availability in the economy. In view of the acceleration in the
use of agricultural inputs and the projected fall in the population growth rate,
the long-run prospects for foodgrain supply and demand balances look favorable.
Persistent shortage seems unlikely, and it is probable that a wide range of
policy options will become much more practical as the overriding emphasis on
foodgrains can be somewhat relaxed. These options include a slowly falling
real price of foodgrains to increase the affordability of foodgrains to low-
income families, further rationalization of domestic markets and prices, and
diversification to the production of other higher value crops. This prospect
will involve only a gradual shift in emphasis rather than a dramatic break
with past policies.
15.       Foreign exchange reserves still provide some cushion that can help
the Government of India in short-term supply management, but this situation
is likely to be short-lived. Rising import prices and uncertainties in the
prospects for exports and invisible receipts have led to a serious and rapid
deterioration in India's balance of payments prospects. Reserves were only
marginally higher in March 1980 than the level of a year earlier and, in terms
of import coverage, fell below the 8-month level for the first time since 1977.
A sharp decline in the reserve level is expected in 1980/81. At best, India's
reserves may provide a cushion for two more years, and even that is conditional
on the maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances and on moderation in
oil price rises.
16.       India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Progress has
been made and continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the
economy faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Invest-
ments required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with
longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable



physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a
difficult burden on the framers of India's next Five-Year Plan. The primary
focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjustment policies,
although the aid community can and should play an important role in ensuring
that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign resources.
17.       The annual population growth rate declined from 2.2% in the late
1960s to below 2% at present and is expected to continue falling to around
1.6% by the latter half of the 1980s. Despite the declining trend in the rate
of population increase, a net reproduction rate of one (replacement level)
will only be achieved around the year 2020. At that time, the population of
India is estimated to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 81% over
the mid 1980 level of 663 million.  Family planning has played an important
role in achieving the fertility decline in the past decade, and the extent of
a further decline will be greatly influenced by the continuation of a success-
ful official family planning program. The family planning performance data
for 1978/79 and the first ten months of 1979/80 clearly indicate a come back
from the sharp decline observed in virtually all major contraceptive methods
during 1977/78. Except for male sterilizations, the number of acceptors for
all contraceptive methods surpassed the 1974/75 levels in 1978/79. While the
increase in the total acceptors of IUD and conventional contraceptives was
modest, female sterilizations increased by about 40% between 1977/78 and
1978/79. Data for the first ten months of 1979/80 confirm a secular upward
trend in overall performance. So far, policy makers have not made major
attempts to accelerate the male sterilization program. Instead, they have
opted for policies that would yield relatively modest but sustainable results
with increased emphasis on non-terminal methods.
18.       Beyond the effects of overall economic growth and constrained popula-
tion growth, the reduction of poverty in India requires special attention to
ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
In addition to marginal holdings of physical assets, the poor are ill-endowed
with human resources, being disproportionately represented among the illiterate,
the malnourished and those having otherwise poor health status. Improvements
in the living standards of the poor will depend to a large extent on the over-
all growth of the economy, mainly on productivity increases in agriculture
and non-farm rural employment, but also on the expansion of employment oppor-
tunities in urban areas. These developments will have to stem largely from
market forces which, however, can be greatly facilitated by appropriate gov-
ernment policies and investment priorities. There is also a role for direct
government actions in faster implementation of land reform (though the scope
for significant reduction in poverty through redistribution is quite limited
in India), in increasing the supply of credit available to small farmers and
rural artisans and finally in broadening the provision of those services
which enhance the human capital of the poor and improve living standards.
Many of the latter are elements of the Minimum Needs Program which has been
an integral part of Indian planning for the past decade. Progress has been
slow but steady in the expansion of primary education, the extension of rural



- 7 -
health facilities and the provision of secure village water supplies. Recent
innovations, including the community health volunteer program and the national
adult literacy campaign, are encouraging evidence that well-targetted, rela-
tively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 57 loans and 118 development
credits to India totalling US$2,529 million and US$7,255 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,055 million had
been repaid, and US$3,226 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1980.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March 31,
1980, totalled US$517 million, representing an increase of about 44% over the
same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements
as of March 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 18 commitments in India totalling US$72.5
million, of which US$17.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$40.6 million, US$31.5 mil-
lion represents loans and US$9.1 million equity. A summary statement of
IFC operations as of March 31, 1980, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations
and in providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing,
seed development, agricultural extension, and dairying are other agricultural
activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group has been active
in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector and, through its
sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in a wide range of
geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises. IDA
financing of industrial raw materials and components for selected priority
sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capacity utilization in
industry. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastructure
development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family planning,
water supply development, and urban investments have also received Bank
Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis. Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program for
the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefit-
ting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fertilizer sector
also assists India in the more efficient provision of another key input in
the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,



- 8 -
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on those subsectors which
have recently emerged as key constraints on India's overall growth, primarily
power and transportation.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid 1970s. However,
the need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even greater deter-
ioration in balance of payments prospects during the 1980s by augmenting
domestic resources and stimulating investment, remains. As in the past, Bank
Group assistance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in
most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors
as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
24.       India's poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of
India's external capital requirements should be provided on concessionary
terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been,
and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA
funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation
to India's needs for external support, and India should be regarded as credit-
worthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt service
to the level of exports was 12% in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below
20% through 1995/96. As of March 31, 1980, outstanding loans to India held
by the Bank totaled US$1,516 million, of which US$556 million remained to be
disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$960 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1979, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$15.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.6 billion or 30% (IDA's US$4.0 billion and IBRD's US$0.6 bil-
lion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1978/79,
about 17.5% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Background
26.       The performance of the Indian power supply industry and the economy
as a whole are closely linked, and economic growth and improvement of the



- 9 -
standard of living depend critically on the development of the power sector.
Since alternative sources of energy are not readily available in the amounts
needed, shortage of power has an immediate impact on activities of the economy.
In recent years, energy matters have been receiving top priority consideration
in policy planning of Central and State Governments, on a par with food pro-
duction and distribution. Resources allocated to the power sector have signi-
ficantly increased during this period. 1/ While per capita consumption of
electricity has been rising in India, it remains among the lowest in the world
at about 130 kWh per annum. Although investment in the development of the
power sector has been emphasized, demand for power has been outstripping sup-
ply. The direct loss of value added due to power shortages is estimated at
about 3% of GDP.
Development of the Power Sector
27.       In the past, investments in power generation, transmission and dis-
tribution were made largely by the States and, while transfer of power between
States took place as the power system expanded and demand grew, there was
limited attempt at the development of power on a broad Regional or national
basis. Promising hydro power sites were identified throughout India, but
budget constraints, water rights problems between States, and other consider-
ations prevented any large-scale development, leaving hydro power potential
largely untapped except for relatively few developments.
28.       Overall Power Supply and Demand of Power.  In the 1950s and 1960s,
installed capacity and power generation managed to keep pace with the nation's
demand for power, both growing at an average annual rate of about 12%. Since
1970, the situation has deteriorated. Delays in commissioning new power proj-
ects, operation and maintenance problems and insufficient investment under
severe budget constraints have led to a critical situation in which demand for
power outstrips supply. This was exacerbated by monsoons and an unstable coal
supply caused by disruptions in coal mining and transport. Between 1970/71 and
1974/ 75, growth in power generation averaged only 5% annually. In the follow-
ing years, 1975/76 and 1976/77, the situation improved as the result of two
successive good monsoons, improved coal supply, and a concerted effort to
improve project implementation, thermal capacity utilization and overall power
system management. Capacity grew by 10% in 1975/76 and 8% in 1976/77, while
generation increased by 13% and 11.5%, respectively, reflecting improved
capacity utilization. In 1977/78, however, generation increased by less than
4% in spite of a 9% increase in capacity, due mainly to longer outage periods
than normal and longer periods required for commissioning new plants than
expected. The higher growth trend resumed in 1978/79, with an increase of
about 12% in installed capacity and 7% in power generation. Even so, power
shortages persisted in many parts of the country, particularly in the Eastern
Region, and India's economic activity, particularly in the industrial sector,
was adversely affected. Total installed generating capacity as of March 1979
was about 29,000 MW, including non-utility plant. Of this total generating
capacity, about 60% was conventional thermal, 38% hydro and the balance nuclear.
1/   From 16% of public sector outlays during the Fourth Plan to 19% in the
Fifth Plan and an estimated 23% earmarked in the draft Sixth Plan.



- 10 -
Although additional new generation capacity of about 10% (3,000 MW) is expected
to have been commissioned in 1979/80, power shortages will continue to prevail.
Industry consumes about 66% of all electricity sold, while agriculture (mainly
irrigation) accounts for another 14-15%. As a result of accelerated agricul-
tural development programs, there has been a marked growth of power consumption
in the rural areas where more than 80% of India's population live. The number
of electrified villages, for example, grew from just over 3,000 in 1950/51 to
some 230,000, or over one-third of all the villages in India, by March 1979.
During the five-year period 1979/80-1983/84, new generating capacity is ex-
pected to grow at an annual rate of about 11% to total some 18,900 MW, of
which about 13,000 would be thermal and 4,700 MW hydro and 900 MW nuclear.
The construction of some 15,000 km of 400 kV transmission is planned to dis-
tribute the power output through the integrated Regional systems.
29.       Power Supply and Demand in the Eastern Region.  In the Eastern
Region, installed capacity as of March 1979 was 4,700 MW, consisting of
3,800 MW thermal and 900 MW hydro. During 1979/80-1983/84 new capacity of
about 3,000 MW is expected to be commissioned, which would bring the installed
capacity to about 7,700 MW. In 1980/81, the Eastern Region is likely to have
a capacity deficit of some 8%, and the anticipated shortfall is still likely
to be 8% (or about 400 MW) in 1983/84. Power shortages will, therefore,
continue to persist until well beyond 1984.
30.       Recent Development.  With the rapid growth of the power sector
accompanied by the increasing complexity of its operation, the need to under-
take an integrated national approach to sectoral development is recognizel by
GOI. Some encouraging developments have been initiated. For example, the
unified operation of power systems on a Regional basis has commenced. The
Southern Regional grid has been in operation since 1972 with interconnected
220 kV transmission, and progressive integration of power systems in other
Regions is intended to pave the way for a national grid. GOI undertook under
the Fourth Power Transmission project (Credit 604-IN) to carry out, with
assistance of consultants, a 400 kV system study designed to establish primary
grid configurations to be adopted in developing the national power grid. The
400 kV system study was commenced by CEA and the first phase of the study has
been completed. The study provides essential inputs for formulating sound
policies for future development of the sector; GOI intends to continue it as
part of ongoing long-term national power planning. The operation of Regional
systems, which will be ultimately integrated into a national grid, requires
large numbers of technical personnel trained to use sophisticated load dispatch
equipment to control interconnected systems operation. A UNDP project designed
to assist CEA in developing programs for staff training for operation of the
future load dispatch centers is expected to be implemented shortly upon sub-
mission of a project proposal by GOI.
Sector Institutions
31.       The institutional structure of the Indian power sector is complex.
One of the main reasons is that electricity supply is a concurrent subject,
within the jurisdiction of both the Central Government and the State Govern-
ments under the Indian Constitution and the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948.



- 11 -
This means that the responsibility for supplying power is shared between the
Central Government and the State Governments, and full agreement between the
Center and the States is required for the implementation of most actions.
With the rapid expansion of the power sector, there has been the increasing
need to coordinate the activities in the power industry beyond State bound-
aries, and various agencies have been established with a view to promoting
integrated power development in the country. The principal agencies in the
sector are: (i) the State Electricity Boards (SEBs); (ii) Regional Electricity
Boards (REBs); (iii) the Central Electricity Authority (CEA); (iv) the two
Central power corporations--the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and
the National Hydro Power Corporation (NHPC); and (v) the Rural Electrification
Corporation (REC).
32.       State and Regional Electricity Boards.  The SEBs were established
by the State Governments under the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948. Their major
task at the time of establishment was to bring together the small individual,
often independent privately owned power plants and facilities within their
respective States. The SEBs continue to promote the coordinated development
of the generation, supply and distribution of power within their respective
States and to control and regulate private sector power supply undertakings.
At the present time, the States own or control about 90% of India's power
generation facilities. While the SEBs are corporate entities in their own
right and enjoy some autonomy in the management of their day-to-day operations,
they are under the effective control of their State Governments in such policy
matters as capital investment, finance, tariff changes and personnel. As a
means of improving collaboration between the SEBs and establishing power
systems on a broader Regional basis, four Regional Electricity Boards (REBs)
were established between 1964 and 1966 by common resolution of the State
and Central Governments, to help develop integrated power systems in their
respective Regions, and thus prepare for the transition from separate power
systems at State level to Regional systems and finally to an interconnected
national grid. The chairmanship of each REB is assumed in rotation by the
Chairmen of the SEBs in the Region, and engineers of constituent SEBs are
seconded to the REBs. At present, the REBs function in an advisory capacity
for coordination of maintenance programs, generation schedules, interstate
power transfer and pricing. The potential role of the REBs in the light of
the progressive integration of Indian power sector operations is being reviewed
by the Government of India (GOI). The SEBs of Orissa, West Bengal and Bihar
and the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) are the major power supply authorities
in the Eastern Region, and will be the recipients of power from the Farakka
station.
33.       Central Electricity Authority.  The CEA was set up in 1950 to be
responsible for developing a national policy for power development, and to
coordinate the activities of the various planning agencies involved in elec-
tricity supply. As a result of the amendments to the general provisions of
the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, which became effective in October 1976,
the scope of the CEA's functions was expanded. In addition to its general
responsibility outlined above, CEA was made responsible for the formulation
of power development plans, optimization of investments in the power sector,
training of personnel, interconnected system operations, and research and
development. The SEBs are required to submit their investment proposals to
the CEA for technical and economic appraisal in a national context.



- 12 -
34.       NTPC and NHPC.  In order to cope with the persistent inadequacy of
power supply to meet the growing demand--a situation which has increasingly
prevailed since 1970--GOI made a policy shift and has undertaken to supplement
the efforts of the States by constructing large-scale Centrally-owned thermal
power stations at coal fields and hydro stations in the four Regions, as well
as associated high voltage transmission lines--a step to interconnect the
systems beyond conventional State boundaries. This would lead ultimately to
an integrated national power grid. Accordingly, the National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) and the National Hydro Power Corporation (NHPC) were estab-
lished in November 1975 under the Companies Act, 1956, as public corporations,
wholly owned by GOI, with authority to design, construct, own and operate
generating and associated transmission facilities and supply power in bulk
directly to the States. The Centrally owned generating stations, including
the Farakka plant, are designed to supplement the States' activities and add
on new power generation capacity effectively within the shortest period of
time. They will be integrated in the future national power system and will
supplement power supply under bulk supply contracts to the States each in the
Region in which it is located.
35.       Rural Electrification Corporation.  To help SEBs undertake the task
of rural electrification, the REC was established in 1969 under the Companies
Act, 1956 as a public corporation, wholly owned by the Government. Its main
institutional objective is to finance rural electrification schemes prepared
by SEBs throughout India, functioning as a financial intermediary with tech-
nical expertise, and ensuring the efficient on-lending of funds drawn primarily
from GOI. In undertaking the task, REC is directed to coordinate its lending
operations with the activities of other agencies, such as the Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC), which provide financing for
rural development. Although the amount of REC financial support is small in
relation to total SEB operations in the power sector, REC supports today more
than half of total rural electrification expenditures.
Bank Group Operations and Strategy in the Power Sector
36.       Since 1954, the Bank has made nine loans to India for power projects
amounting to US$334.5 million and IDA thirteen credits totalling US$1,471 mil-
lion. Of this amount, US$1,170.5 million is for financing of generating plant;
US$23 million for the purchase of construction equipment for the Beas hydro-
electric project; US$380 million for the provision of high voltage trans-
mission; and US$232 million for the support of rural electrification schemes.
Nine loans and credits for generating plant, the Beas project (Credit 89-IN)
and the first three transmission projects (Loan 416-IN and Credits 242-IN and
377-IN), have been completed. The Fourth Transmission project (Credit 604-IN)
is proceeding satisfactorily notwithstanding initial delays in preparation of
specifications and in contract awards for highly sophisticated load dispatch
equipment; the credit proceeds of US$150 million were fully committed by the
end of 1979. The loan to the Tata Electric Companies under the Third Trombay
Thermal Power project (Loan 1549-IN), which was approved in April 1978, is
progressing satisfactorily. The First Singrauli (Credit 685-IN of April 1977)
and Korba (Credit 793-IN of May 1978) projects are also on schedule. The First
Rural Electrification project (Credit 572-IN of July 1975) has been fully
committed. The Ramagundam project (Credit 874-IN and Loan 1648-IN of February



- 13 -
1979) and the Second Rural Electrification project (Credit 911-IN of June
1979) are in the early stages of implementation. The Second Singrauli project
(Credit 1027-IN) was approved recently.
37.       The Bank Group has had a continuing dialogue with the Government in
seeking solutions to a number of complex and politically sensitive problems
which have confronted the Indian electricity supply industry since Indepen-
dence. The sensitivity of Center-State relations and the political constraints
arising from the fact that electricity supply is within the concurrent juris-
diction of the Central and State Governments, have dictated a policy of seek-
ing progress through cooperation. More specifically, the Bank Group's main
objectives of lending operations to the Indian power sector are: (a) accel-
erating the installation of generating capacity and promoting measures to
improve the technical levels of operation and maintenance of existing plant;
(b) fostering development of comprehensive long-range Regional and national
system plans which would assure implementation of a least-cost power devel-
opment program; (c) strengthening of the sector organization; and (d)
strengthening of the finances of the institutions involved in the sector,
particularly of the SEBs.
38.       Some noteworthy results have been achieved, which include:  (i)
amendment of the general provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act in 1976,
to strengthen the role of the CEA and to authorize the establishment of NTPC
and NHPC; (ii) the establishment of the Regional Electricity Boards and later
of the Centrally-owned power companies, which mark the first important steps
towards nationwide power operation; (iii) the recent amendments to the finan-
cial provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, which provide for the dev-
elopment of SEBs on a more commercial basis through financing from internal
sources a reasonable proportion of their investments; (iv) tariff studies by
a number of SEBs with a view to reassessing tariff policies; (v) preparation
of action plans by a number of SEBs, which are designed to restore the 9-1/2%
rate of return through tariff increases, rationalization of manpower require-
ments and other cost-effective schemes; and (vi) progress of NTPC's generation/
transmission construction program with Bank Group assistance. Implementation
of the program will make a significant contribution to the gradual elimination
of the shortfall of power; further improvements are anticipated.
39.       Going beyond these achievements, Indian authorities have recognized
that all aspects of the sector need to be reviewed in depth and that satisfac-
tory solutions have to be found for outstanding sector development problems.
Consequently, GOI established a high-level Committee on Power under the chair-
manship of V.G. Rajadhyaksha, former Member of the Planning Commission, with
seven working panels of leading experts in both public and private sectors to
review:  (a) power planning; (b) project formulation and implementation; (c)
operation and maintenance; (d) organization and management; (e) finance,
financial management and tariffs; (f) rural electrification; and (g) research
and development. Draft reports by the seven expert panels assembled for this
purpose have been completed and have been reviewed by the Committee which
is expected to submit its findings and recommendations to GOI during 1980.
The Bank Group will take a continuing interest in the Committee's findings and
GOI's follow-up actions.



- 14 -
40.       There remain a number of areas which have been a particular cause of
continuing concern to the Bank Group and also have been the subject of contin-
uing dialogue with the Government. These include: (i) nationwide long-range
planning for power development; and (ii) the financial position of some SEBs.
In the continued effort of the Bank Group in helping GOI deal with the long-
range problems of the power sector in India, it was decided to concentrate on
the above two areas. During appraisal and negotiations for the Second
Singrauli Thermal Power project as well as this project, discussions were held
with GOI, CEA, NTPC and NHPC on the content of a long-range national power
development study designed to prepare a least-cost power development program
and CEA's capability to undertake such study with its own staff. The govern-
ment agreed with the terms of reference for long term development suggested by
the Bank Group and stated that the study which has been commenced would be
completed by April 1982. From a commercial point of view, the financial
performance of several SEBs has been marginal and even in years where 9-1/2%
rates of return were achieved, a number of SEBs were not able to meet their
debt service requirements. There are several reasons for such performance--
e.g., insufficient generating capacity which does not permit utilization of
the market potential to the fullest extent, maintenance problems, lack of
monsoon rains leading to severe load shedding and blackouts, disruptions in
transport and coal mining resulting in insufficient coal supply, and low
tariff levels. There is scope for improvement in the finances of the agencies
concerned through increased generation and sales, reduced auxiliary consumption
and lower transmission losses. There is also scope for more stringent cost
controls and more effective management, particularly in Bihar. Recognizing
the need to enhance financial performance of the Eastern Region SEBs, GOI
through CEA held discussions with the State Governments concerned in late 1979
and agreement was reached about enhanced monitoring and improved accountability
to achieve improved operational and financial management of the SEBs. In the
context of this project, special attention was directed to the Eastern States,
the beneficiaries of Farakka power (paras 53-55).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project was appraised by a mission which visited India in May/
June 1979. A report entitled "India - Farakka Thermal Power Project Staff
Appraisal Report" (No. 2976a-IN, dated May 27, 1980) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington
in May 1980.  GOI and NTPC were represented by a delegation coordinated by
Mr. S.C. Jain of the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance. A
supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
42.       The proposed project represents the first stage of the fourth large-
scale thermal power development in India, comprising three 200 MW coal-fired
generating units, together with ancillary equipment and related works, about
410 km of associated 400 kV transmission lines, and a training simulator. The
site of the power station is in the Murshidabad District in the State of West



- 15 -
Bengal, on the west bank of the Farakka feeder canal. The total project is
expected to be commissioned by the end of 1985.
Project Cost and Financing
43.       The project cost, including contingencies but excluding duties and
taxes, is estimated at about US$491 million equivalent, of which about US$62
million represents the estimated foreign exchange costs. Duties and taxes
add about US$9 million to the financing required. Physical contingencies of
10% on civil works, and of 5% on plant and transmission have been included.
Costs for equipment and erection have been escalated at 6% for 1979, 10% for
1980, 7% for the years 1981-1983 and 5% for the years after 1983.
44.       The proposed credit and loan of US$250 million would provide about
51% of the cost of the project, excluding interest during construction and
duties and taxes. The balance of the funds required, aggregating about US$249
million equivalent, would be provided by the Government in the form of loan
and equity capital.
Procurement and Disbursement
45.       The major items financed under the proposed credit and loan are
three 200 MW generating units; electrical and other power station equipment;
coal handling and transportation equipment, transmission facilities; a training
simulator and consultants' services for plant engineering work. All equipment
financed under the proposed credit and loan, would be procured by NTPC through
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank/IDA guidelines.
The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 100% of: (a) the c.i.f.
cost of imported items; (b) the ex-factory cost, net of duties and taxes, of
items procured from Indian suppliers; and (c) the cost of technical advisory
services by consultants. Indian manufacturers competing under international
competitive bidding would be granted a preference margin of 15% or the current
rate of import duty, whichever is less. It is expected that local manufac-
turers of equipment and machinery would submit the lowest conforming bids for
most of the items financed under the credit and loan. Documents for indivi-
dual contracts estimated to cost US$1,500,000 or more will be subject to prior
review by the Bank Group. All work not financed from the proposed credit and
loan will be subject to NTPC's procurement procedures, which are satisfactory.
Project Implementation
46.       NTPC will implement the proposed project as part of its ongoing power
development program. NTPC has a Board of Directors, which presently consists
of seven members, two of whom are part time. A competent and experienced
Chairman and Managing Director was appointed in early 1976 and NTPC is making
good progress in building up its organization and manpower since then. As
a growing organization, NTPC places special importance on the training of
engineers, supervisors and operating staff as well as managerial and adminis-
trative staff, and is implementing an acceptable training program covering
spheres of activity such as planning, design, constuction and start-up
operation.



- 16 -
47.       A master plan for project implementation has been prepared by NTPC.
Preparatory civil works have commenced at the plant site. The detailed
engineering and design work carried out for the ongoing Bank Group-assisted
thermal power development is largely applicable to the proposed project.
NTPC has developed a comprehensive project management and information system,
including program coordination and supervision of construction of the power
stations. However, in view of the magnitude of its construction program,
NTPC agreed to appoint, by October 15, 1980, consultants with broad exper-
ience in major construction programs of this nature to review its project
management and information system and their initial implementation (Section
2.02 of Project Agreement).
48.       Large reserves of coal are available at the Rajmahal coal field,
some 50 km from the Farakka plant and coal will be transported by a "merry-go-
round" rail transport system which will be installed for this purpose. The
Government has agreed to take all necessary steps to ensure adequate coal
supplies for the final installed capacity of the Farakka plant (Section 3.04
of Development Credit Agreement). No problem is foreseen with regard to the
availability of adequate quantities for the proposed thermal power station.
Cooling water arrangements are adequate.
49.       Adequate measures will be taken to minimize potential adverse eco-
logical effects of the project. The measures include stack emission control
by electrostatic precipitators and appropriate ash disposal facilities. The
approval of the National Committee on Environmental Planning and Coordination
has been obtained, and appropriate occupational safety standards will be
strictly enforced (Section 2.10 of Project Agreement).
NTPC Finances
50.       NTPC would begin to earn revenues in 1981/82 when commissioning of
the first 200 MW generating unit under the First Singrauli project (Credit
685-IN) is scheduled. As the generating capacity increases, NTPC's annual
revenue is expected to increase at a faster rate than its operating expenses
and produce rates of return on the capital base rising gradually to reach 9.5%
by 1988/89 and about 11% by 1990/91. NTPC has agreed to achieve in 1988/89,
and maintain thereafter, a rate of return of not less than 9.5% on the cost
of the average net fixed assets in service, and to set tariffs from the time
of commissioning of its first 200 MW generating unit at the Singrauli thermal
power station at levels not lower than those estimated to be required to meet
this target (Section 4.03 of Project Agreement). This would result in lower
returns in the earlier years, but in view of the high initial capital invest-
ment in the early stages of NTPC's power development and the time involved
in commissioning generating capacity, this approach to setting the tariff
and reaching the target rate of return by 1988/89 is appropriate.
51.       In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, the Govern-
ment would provide funds so that NTPC's debt/equity ratio would not exceed 1:1.
NTPC's initial authorized share capital of Rs 1,250 million (US$149 million)
was increased in May 1979 to Rs 3,000 million (US$357 million). Further
progressive increases of share capital are planned during the construction
period, reaching about Rs 22,000 million (US$2,620 million) by 1983/84. NTPC
would inform the Association of any proposal for modification of existing



- 17 -
limitations on NTPC's borrowing powers prior to submission to its annual
shareholders' meeting (Section 3.03 of Project Agreement). The proceeds of
the proposed credit and loan would be onlent to NTPC, and conclusion of a
subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Association is a condition of
effectiveness (Section 5.01 (a) of Development Credit Agreement and Section
6.01 of Loan Agreement). The GOI loan would be for a term of 20 years,
including five years grace, with interest at the rate of 10-1/4% per annum.
This is the standard rate at which GOI currently lends to public sector
enterprises. The exchange risk will be borne by the Government. Inflation
in India between 1974/75 and 1978/79 averaged only 1.5% per annum. With the
sharp increase in oil prices during 1979 coinciding with a severe drought,
prices spurted by almost 15% between April and December 1979 and are anti-
cipated to increase another 10% during 1980/81. Given past GOI determination
and success in containing inflation, and the likelihood of a strong agricul-
tural recovery and improved supply of industrial inputs, the rate of price
increase over the project period is expected to average somewhat below 7%
per annum.
52.       As in the case of the previous Bank Group-assisted projects,
Farakka's power output will be supplied in bulk to the Eastern Region SEBs
through 400 kV transmission lines. GOI has undertaken to obtain, not later
than October 10, 1980, undertakings from the recipient SEBs and Damodar Valley
Corporation (DVC) in the Eastern Region that they purchase at least 85% of
the power generated by the project units (three 200 MW units) of the Farakka
station (Section 3.05 of Development Credit Agreement). The remaining 15%
would be sold in accordance with priorities to be determined by GOI to the
States with the greatest need. NTPC has agreed to sell the output of power
under bulk supply contracts satisfactory to the Association (Section 2.09 of
Project Agreement). NTPC has prepared a draft bulk supply contract which is
presently being examined in the context of a proposal to study the feasibility
of an agency selling power from all central projects in a Region at a common
rate and to ensure that the tariff is consistent with overall economic consid-
erations and the financial viability aspects of NTPC. GOI has indicated that
agreement on the bulk supply of Farakka power would be reached at least six
months before the start of commercial operation of the first 200 MW unit of
the Farakka station scheduled for December 1984. The Bank Group will review
the commercial arrangements before they are finalized.
Operational and Financial Performance of SEBs
53.       The operational and financial performance of SEBs has been the
subject of a continuous dialogue between GOI and the Bank Group. The Bank
Group has sought, under the previous lending operations, to improve their
performance and work toward a rate of return target of 9.5%. While actual
performance has varied among SEBs, the overall trend showed an improvement
through 1976/77, when seven out of the sixteen major SEBs reached the target
rate of return, compared with only four in the previous year, 1975/76. A
further two reached their targets in 1977/78 with the help of rural electri-
fication subsidies from their State Governments. Another SEB is expected
to achieve the agreed rate of return in 1979/80. Returns generally contracted
in 1977/78 and 1978/79 due to the adverse financial impact of forced plant
outages caused by the natural disasters of flooding and drought, increased



- 18 -
purchases of relatively expensive thermal power and disruptions in the coal
mining industry and in the transport sector, leaving ten out of the sixteen
SEBs, including two Eastern Region SEBs--Orissa and Bihar--unable to reach
the agreed rate of return. 1/ The situation faced by some hard-hit SEBs did
not constitute "normal circumstances", and it can be justifiably argued that
the achievement of the 9.5% could not be realistically expected.
54.       There are special problems associated with the power industry in
the Eastern Region which require special treatment. This Region is the most
vulnerable area in India as regards power availability.  Installation of
additional generating capacity has been constrained primarily because of a
lack of financial resources. The financial performance of the Eastern Region
SEBs and DVC was discussed in detail with GOI and CEA officials during appraisal
and negotiations for the Second Singrauli Thermal Power project as well as this
project; the performance of the DVC, a statutory body which was set up under
GOI Act in 1948 and operates about 40% of the installed capacity in the Eastern
Region, was satisfactory during recent years with a rate of return exceeding
20%. This creditable performance is likely to be maintained for the immediate
future. On the other hand, the financial records of the Eastern Region SEBs,
particularly that of Bihar indicate their weak position partly because generat-
ing stations have had operational problems which have curtailed electricity
output. The Bihar SEB has undertaken a thorough investigation of these prob-
lems, and CEA was made responsible for monitoring this program of studies with
a view to the introduction of an action plan for overall improvement. In the
circumstances, the immediate restoration of a rate of return of 9.5% cannot
realistically be expected. During negotiations, the GOI representatives
undertook to send a report on the position of the Bihar SEB to the Bank Group
within the next six months. In the case of the Orissa SEB, the rate of State
electricity duty recovered from consumers is as high as 5% of capital base, as
against a target of 1.5%. Consequently, if the gross return is compared with
the target of 11% (9.5% plus 1.5% for duties) the annual projections through
FY1983 show that the target rate of return will be achieved in FY1982. This
performance is acceptable, considering the periodic low availability of hydro
power in recent years in what is a predominantly hydro system, coupled with
low output of some thermal plant. The West Bengal SEB exceeded its 9.5% rate
of return in FY1979. However, because of the doubling of installed capacity
projected during the three years to March 1983 and the phased build up to
stabilized generation by the new plant, additional revenues will not be
received in proportion to increases in capital base. While efforts are being
made to complete modifications and improvements in existing installed capacity
in order to improve availability factors and boost revenues, rates of return
projected for the four years ending March 1983 of 7% rising to 9.3% must be
regarded as reasonable.
1/   Duties are levied on electricity sales in all States, except one.
Inclusion of such taxes as a benefit to the States/SEBs would increase
the returns by up to 5 percentage points. Furthermore, a recently
enacted GOI tax on kWh generated is equivalent to a return of additional
2-3 percentage points.



- 19 -
55.       In November 1979, GOI through CEA held discussions with the State
Governments and their SEBs. There was general consensus that concerted efforts
were necessary to improve the operational performance of the Boards. While
improvements in operational efficiency and financial performance can be brought
about over time, GOI and the State Governments and their SEBs have agreed to
introduce various monitoring measures, including a system of accountability,
a monthly reporting system on project implementation and capacity utilization,
and setting of targets for reducing transmission and distribution losses.
Measures are in hand to accelerate the stabilization of newly installed thermal
power units, to better monitor breakdowns, to ensure adequate supplies of
spares and to initiate rehabilitation programs for units which require it.
Training programs at all levels are being strengthened. The introduction of
the above measures would bring greater surveillance over the operations and
finances of the SEBs. The Bank Group will receive comprehensive periodic
information on the power sector which will enable it to monitor progress in
the implementation of these improvement measures. The financial provisions
of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, have been amended to put the operations
of the SEBs on a more commercial basis by enabling them to finance from internal
sources a reasonable portion of their investment program. The manner in which
this will be achieved is a subject which has been under evaluation by both the
State Governments in conjunction with their SEBs, and by the Rajadhyaksha
Committee.
Project Justification and Risks
56.       The proposed project is the least-cost solution to ease the acute
power shortages in the Eastern Region within reasonable time. Compared to
the practical alternative of smaller coal-based stations that would be in-
stalled by individual SEBs in the absence of the project, the present value
of the cost stream of the proposed project is the least-cost alternative at
discount rate up to 35%. The economic rate of return of the project, using
tariff revenues together with observed willingness to pay for continuous power
supply as a proxy for economic benefits, is 13%. This must be regarded as
well below the true economic rate of return on the proposed expansion of power
generating capacity, since additional benefits which are expected from proj-
ect implementation but whose quantification is difficult--e.g., industrial,
agricultural and commercial output maintained by the reduction of shortages--
are not included.
57.       Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected with
operations of this type. The principal risk would be the possibility of delay
in the scheduled commissioning of plant. The progress of project implementa-
tion will be closely monitored during engineering and construction, and the
use of experienced review consultants and management and information system
consultants would help minimize delays in project implementation. The fact
that a number of 200 MW units will have been in operation in India before
the project is commissioned will reduce the possibility of operational dif-
ficulties during start-up and the early stages of operation.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit and Loan Agreements between India, and
the Association and the Bank, respectively, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association, the Bank and NTPC, the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between India and NTPC
has been made an additional condition of effectiveness of the credit and loan
(Sections 5.01 of Development Credit Agreement and Loan Agreement).
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit and loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit and loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 9, 1980



ANNEX I
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SOM                     Page  1  of 5
REIENCE GRDUPS (ADJUSTED AyU&GES
LAND AMEA (THOUSAND SQ. m3.)               nmDL                          - NOST RRCERT ESTIMTE)
TOTAL          3287.6                                                SAME        SAME    IZXT HIGHE
AGRECULTURAL    1818. 3                             MOST RECmaT    GEOGRAC    INcoME        INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 A  ESTUITE /b      REGION I   CROVP ld   GROUP S
GNP PeR CAPITA (US)                60.0        90.0    180.0           191.1      209.6      467.5
ENEaGY CONSUMVPTION P CAPITA
(KiLoGRS or COAL EQV4LEII)       142.0       181.0    218.0            69.1      83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,  ID-TEA  (DLIONS)   434.9        547.6    631. .L,.
IUSII POPULATION (PERCENT Or TOTML) 17.9      19.7      20.7J          13.2       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                   973.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                    1643.0
TEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2150
POPULATION DENSIY
PeR SQ. IN.                    132.0       167.0    192.0            86.6       49.4       45.3
PER SQ. DI. AGRICULTURL LAND    247.0      308.0    347.0           330.2      252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTUR (PUCMcT)
0-14 TES.                       40.8        62.5      42.0           44.3       43.1       45.2
15-64 TRS.                       55.7        54.6      55.0           52.4       53.2       51.9
65 YES. AND ABOVE                 3.5         2.9       3.0            3.1        3.0        2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RAE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.9        2.3       2.1            2.4        2.4         2.7
UBAN                             2. 5L       3.3       3.1            4.1        4.6        4.3
CRUDE 3IRTR RATe (PUa THOUSAND)    43.0       40.0      35.0           44.4       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATE RATE (PEu TSOUSAND)    21.0       17.0      14.0           16.4       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATe            3.2         2.9       2.4            3.2        2.9        2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0     3782.0   45LB.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOHEN)   ..       12.0      16.9            7.9       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOWD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)       100.0       102.0    101.0            99.4       98.2       99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                 95.0        92.0      89.0           93.0       93.3       94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS Pra DAY)        51.0        53.0      48.0           56.1       52.1        54.3
OP WHICH ANIMAL ND PULSE       19.0       16.0      12.6           10.4       13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) HORTALTY RATE    28.0        22.0      18.0           19.2       18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCT AT 3IRTH (YEARS)   43.0       48.0      51.0           49.1       49.3       54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           ..       134.0       ..              ..      105.4       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATZR (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        17.0      33. 0          31.5       26.3        34.4
URBAN                             ..        60.0      83.0           63.9       58.5       57.9
RURAL                             ..         6.0      20.0           20.1       15.8       21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       18.0      20.0           15.7       16.0        40.8
URBAN                             ..        85.0      87.0           66.8       65.1       71.3
RVRAL                             ..         1.0       2.0            2.5        3.5       27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICLN         58oo.0oh    4890.0   3135.0          7107.9   11396.4      6799..
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   9630.O/h   5220.0   6320.0          12064.0    5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         259.0-Li   Z020.0   1231.0           2738.4    1417.1        726.5
'R,AN                             ..          ..       ..              ..      197.3      272.7
RLRAL                             ..          ..       ..              ..    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          .                .                          24.8       27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
7OTAL                            5.2          ..       5.2              .        5.3        5.4
URBAN                            5.2         4. . .8                   ..        4.9        5.1
RURAL                            5.2          ..       5.3             5. .4                5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
-TAOL                            2.6         2.3       ..
JRSAN                                                  . ..    ..         ..
VIRAL                             ..          ..       ..
ACCESS  0 -L ECTRICITY  PERCENT
OF 3WE'L.NGS,
7CTAL                             ....                 ..              ..      .22. 5       .I
R3AN                              ..         ..        ..             ..         .          .5.1
RKRAL                             ..          ..       ..              ..        ..         9.3



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AEAGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIN&SE) -
SAME        SAKE     NCST HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GROGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1f0 lb      1970 /b ESTIMATE lb      REGION /c  GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMSNT RATIOS
PRIDARY:     TOTAL                61.0         72.0      79.0            59.5       63.3         82.7
MALE                 80.0         87.0      94.0            74.9       79.1         87.3
FaALE                40.0         55.0      63.0            43.7       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 20.0         29.0      28.0            19.5        16.7        21.4
MALE                 30.0        39.0       38.0            27.8       22.1         33.0
FEMALZ               10.0        17.0       18.0            10.0       10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   8.0          6.01       ..             1.3         5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PIMIARY                           29.0        40.0       42.0            42.2       41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                         16.0         17.0        ..              ..        21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.0        33.0      36.0            25.5        31.2        54.0
CONSUmPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.7          1.0       1.2             2.3        2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0        21.0       24.0            15.5       27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PCR THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.1        0.5              ..        2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 11.0         16.0      16.0             6.2        5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0          6.3       3.8              ..         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TDTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   188670.0    226870.0  261000.0/k
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  31.3        32.6       32.2            21.4       24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             73.0         73.0      73.0            66.3       69.4         62. 7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.0        11.0       11.0             9.6       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               43.0         40.2      39.2            35.8       36.9         37.1
MALE                                 57.1        52.3      51.3            52.3        52.4        48.8
FEMALE                              27.9         27.1      26.2            15.7        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0          1.1       1.1             1.3         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   26.7        26.3/1       ..              ..                    15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7         48.971                                            48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1          6.771      ..              ..         ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT Or HOUSEHOLDS   13.6         17.27i      ..              ..         ..         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
L'RBAN                              ..          ..       83.0            86.5       99.2        241.3
RURAL                               ..          ..       73.0            74.2       78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..              ..       91.9        179.7
RURAL                               ..          ..       50.0            50.4       54.8        103.7
ESTIIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
'RBAN                               ..          ..       47.0            46.3       44.1         24.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       52.0            52.4       53.9         37.5
Not available
Noc applicable.
NOTES
ia    The adjusred group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populaced country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless ocherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
Ic   Souch Asia;  /d  Low Income (S280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle income (S281-550 per capita,
1976);  1' i978 mid-year population is estimated ac 640.4 nillion;   /j  1951-60;   'h  1962;
-  1958;   / i i967;   /k  1978 mid-year labor force is estimated at 261 million;   _  1964-65.
Most Recenc Escitmate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



ANNEX I
PEP5ITTIONS OF SOCIALIinDICATORS                                                                    Page   3   of   5
No-tes:  Although the data ar  d-an  fern soucegnealy Judged the sat a.thoebtmtie and reliable, it should an be noted that they sp not be inten--
tIona lly o-p-rble be-.sa  of the laos of standardisd defbnltioa and I.sa.ePt, used by differet coutries In colleting the data. The data are,nnteeo
u_eful to Idecorbe orders of Magitde, idicate treda, andoaaneis                    etain. major differer-   beao   outIs
The aldJusted group aceage  if orIch indio-torar -pepuattic-nighted geemtrir aean, eioluoisg the  -tre-  -ai    fte  noao  mn  i   on   osae
conr  i   ah group   W.s to lain of data, grop averges of all idio-t.ra for Capital  urplun Oil op-ter  an  ofidictr  ofArot   oWter cd orEt.
Disposal1, Husig, Inton  iintrinotion and Paverty for other coutry  rops ar  pepslatis-ueigbted neo-tric aca-  onthut etc-on   of thc  otrene oaloe  and
the nun  populated conr..be   herrrga of o-utrbes s-`    th    det-r  depeds Id  ealbiabliby of dta and Is sot unif.-, o-tie suit bees-rc-nd
Is relting arrgr   fon   nbTtr  oaote,maeasens  r   nal   seu   a  prodatbatfhepend  eAr  ae iasis   h  odeio   n
indicator at I tins smng the oc-tony and referenc  grosss.
LANDb ARM  (thousad nibs,I.)Acs  to teists Diepossl (peroet of population) -                                                                              'tI, urban  end ruri 
Ttl-Total sufac_ae   _npi             ad are  and Inndote-.                             Mushe  of people (total, urban, en   ual   eod   by  -orrta dipIua Ia
pgrio,1tursl -  Stint recet osnn-n  of agrIcltra   ara  sd temprarLy                        Peroetenes of thrie rospetioc pniilti.ao. docrets dooponab mo inolau
or peranetly for oroP, paut-e, aarlct and kiteban garde    or to                          the oollsction end disposal1, ebtb  sir thbst treataet, of h tuna   rrts
lIeI falle.                                                                               adwseanrby aster-hos   Wyatea  or the sac of pitprivisad   -u
GNP PER CAPITA (Ui$) - GNP Per espita estieatesaeu.          n  maktptrn                     Ppid.toncrPhsoa  -Pplainuonety  ubrOfpnt--n   hyson
-aolae   y  ss  oceniantbnd en WInd B-as  Atlat (1976-t   bais);                            qaiidfo       ein   tols   nerot   ee
i96o, 1970, end 1978 daafpplaltdr  BunubeI                                                                          Person   Ptiai tydvIe  bynnero-ratcngm
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PEc CAPITA -Annual onsspIoof Itm-c-n  enrg                                  end feasle g-nduate nurse, p-ati-mI nre,nd n-otet torte -.
(..Ia  and lignite, petroleu, natural gas end hynro-, cuoler end gro-                     Popoilhoe   osital hodi- to.tni~,  bcn   n  ror.i-    I.oition  (total, ubc
thee-s  eletricity) In kibioram   of oal equivalent per capta; 1960,                        and rura) dved by tihe  repoio-tne  ofb-ooibdsas tlo  in
i9I0. end 1976 data.                                                                        public end pr-onte generl and s,prioi-c  bontpotni und r-btilntsto-  voc,t-r
Hoopitalo ar- cnltmcopee-oetly otnffcd bp at teI                    o  oyicn
PhUi,ATIOiM  AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             tnalsoospoiIgpicply'sollor   r   otocluded  burs
Tttal Population  Mud-tear (miio.s) A- Inf duly i; i9dyo, 197), end                         hocpitnic, bouot, include h-ltb and mcdios1  -rter  sot p-ranotlp ots I`d-
UrbanPopultion  peroet of tonsl) - st-o of u-ben to tots1 population;                   .it-pa ipt atamdatios and proide s limitedrnoolein   aiioo
difrn    efntoso  urha  neen  sap affect ...spaability of dais                          Adnobn    e   optlhd      oa   ue   fs                  sitt to o  douct9rge  feco
amon  Icut-ie; 196t, 1970, end 1975 data.                                                 bocpitalo dionded bp tieh ube   fes
Populat-tits briJdetOiiIN
i979 totalppd intb    by age and onen  tbei"r jnrtalu1ty and fertility                Peraelie  fhonotd (pes-noperono-hod  - otl,ub`t end  -Iru
rates_   r.toto    saeesfrnranyrtscarco   be                                               tuhi   ossso   oroP of Ieduvioal  nbcib Rs Idigqatr 
e-ci  anomig life eopeotany at bthihiebitenn    u    -iuteYo                            their uni  ms    A hoarder or 10cr nay or cup cot ho itliord on to-
pe  onpita inom   been, and fecial  life enpeteny stbhilining at                        bo 'eb       ,i or,tninti-nl popue.-
71.5 year.-   The paranter  fo  fertility rate alut bh.e three leeds                  ceA-ge  -1,-e of peen--  per rontotal,_ra,edrrl-A..eage t-bo
-ousngdeoIice In fertility croodo-g to inem   bred  end past                           of per..no pe  roI  a in all urban, and  -or.l copiod  --oet~on ...i          oo1
femil  clning perforane  Ench ountry In tben asine   neo  these                         respeticly.  hoellicnp  e-lude ou-.persoet ott-oue   end --ocp-o  p-r
nice cohinntbo   of motality aso fertility trends foe projetio                  Pofea  to Kleotriot   (preto2          utao      otl,re!idrri-Co
OSt InyPopoIntocs - in I o.taio..ary populatii. there II so g9ath                         tctsl, urban, end rrlde ig    ePeto
nioce tho birth rate In equsl to the death rate, end also tie age
Itruo tirert-i-soontat. Thit an shietd only sfter fertility  -atou                 fLiDATION
dcicto tbe replaceert level of en-nt   reiproduction rate, abet                  Adjunted &lne1luset Patl
-ob ucoeabo  of unma  replaces itself e-atly.  The sattionar y PoIP-                    Prss-y cbhnb- totlIst   en          Iesl  - drono tonsl, asIc  n  denoIle  oo
inti   01c  ant co Ime  on the Iac   of thepojce   ehrotr_so                               et ofaiae.ttepiasyltls   eonaeIo   cpote    rmr
otcppatiosi  hbc     , pea  00,-en  0t5  -sta of de-Is-  of fertility           u-b-l-ag    oltitI omal  i                IIodI ohlro   ged f-li poar  Oct
rate torPlaemntI        ociIdidoted foe differct 1etgt   of p-io-Y edustion; i-eoloccouth
ea   ttoaypIpaisti.. in r hobd - The yea   hen stationar.y population                --ncrol tdu..aoio  ecr.... nic- asp  --ted 100 p-ret  0c  mae p.,pl
fte hen bee  race.                                                                        arel,Il  Ielom  or    o  the officil notol age.
Popula.tion Tent ty                                                                          e_idoryool-total, male end femle - 0 eputed no oli,   unooIsu
ern.i.-Mio-peac PP,tilti.c Per  qaarc kilomter (100 be-taren if                      eductionreuie  nletforyeant  aprvdpr-"enro  iotPd_i0
Per to. ia Ugi-ulturn  lano - Ctsputrd an shone for agriruI1furi land                       usIlly of 12 to 17 yearn of' ho;orepondenoo-sr... III gio-rulp
only.                                                                                     valudr.d
(1376  yeanI      yrtired        year  end oe)aopeceag If mid-year                          trehoi-aI, ird-ntebI, or other p-ogr-   ohio oh         rt  idpndi
"pnpolatboe; 1160,t1970, end 1977 data.                                                       depar_tent  of neco.ndary  tistottions.
PouaiciroaRn  (percent) - tata-Annual -rotb rates of toti mid-                      Psotec eratio-piay    ~end -eo -y -Total ooudltnt  e-rlio 
yer ioulnirnfo  ISihO   190-0,I     ad17   .pri_ne  and necndr-y le-ei  diobded by n.-rI I f heaoernsoi,eorro
Ponalation iroth hate  Itret      ra       nulaot   ae   f urbanncoo   rno
Iuuaba  foe1506, 090-0  end 1970 -75.                                                 dl  ieayrt   pret      irncaut   sn   vra    aainn
Crude hieth Rate   or- thoucad )- Annua Ili-o  bletho per thtoand of mid-                      ap--oetage of total  dolt populoi-o aged 11 py-   end doer.
year popuisti_n; 1960, 1970, mad i977 data.
frudl ManRte(r  thooomd) - Aonos1 dantho Ile thousand usts -pear-                      CONBOPgPTIbN
poplaion; 1950, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                 Pnesrfr   sr  boedPoltso       aono   uororl   ioec
rntl eProdd-tiot Rte  - hvAge cubec of dnightr-                     -1na 1 il  bc-          tenting  lest than light Pe-.c.; -ldolode    IIalenceI haeoaneItioo-
in bee o,-e -urp-od-ti- periods f tb h         p cte  prest ISr-                          -ciioie-
opetifoc f_tablty _uten; ...oolly fir-year neergr  -ndoog Ic 1960,                      Radio poori-rr  (per thounad --Rultsn ..         ill tYP-, of eoI"I ro  for -d-,
1970, and 1975.                                                                           braocnto genera  plIc   erohosdo                       ppiato;-  oldnubcne
Panipy Plannig - Aceeton. A.noal(thco-ads~) - AnnoIl -ui- of                                reie-cr  onnt-e  and inyee  abe h              eio-.si  of; -euis tioI  atoi
neet rso  birtb-o....... de-ie  uder auPIcs of nationalI  fami ly                    ,ffect. dats f-r  --et pyre an  nut be ,oap-eole tier-  a. so o-ociri
planing p-ngr-                                                                            s`olinbed  licenin.
PaiilyPlsnog  -Ilnro  paven  ofecie  sours)         -Pretage of marrid            T0ptevrV(t  thoonnd   opuanit-) - TOIroeloert fc  brondotot t   oece
onset ofchild-hering  age(iT~4  yses) rhoour olet-citrI droice             ulcoc  huad   osai    etrid _oitveed TVrecoe
to all married sonen I  san  ag  getup.                                                   end in year      ' cuerreitraioc of TV ceta  si onffet.
aNsesper C-rluition(oetpq8                  ltion) -Stb_  tih. i--ergoe--lati-
FOOD ANI) NUTRIT__                                                                            of  dail  genera1 l  I_ca  nu pape  ,dfed aa  n- perodca  puIetc
Iles- of Pnnd ren_-d-ot-  per fInts (1196971=100) - ideo of Pee -spita                      devted     ~ crs ly toedoing ge-rlo1s--   It i~ e--nod-e  oot.    'dii
-nua  production of all ftId _osdine.-oieoludes necd end                                  if it nIiear-  at least f.o  tbmacauIe.-
fedad is on o-l-d-e Yea  laIaI.  CoasditoeItotr piasep gonde                         Cinem  AsuiAttendaoc Per Captaat   ea                    d    thm  l O   -ib-o   f t-k-ci
(eg.suaratitetead of og,,  shio  are edhi  s                  ..on utiniIod d-r.e  the year, ioii-                       totssiocor  nO  eni_                 t  n)
(g.offeean  tenar  riobde).  iggregat  producti-  of mobh   toefy                       ot
in Inn..d on aetioa  aveag 1   producer Price  ..ighto.
Per capita  _ulIp cfIalo .  (percet of trouemen) - Computed from                      tAPIR FiObC
ene   1-e 1-vlet of net food naPPIec. avilable ic on-ony par tsPbtn               ns.ao  borneL(b ouas                                       ..c.n...lynoie  oio     ... loing,. neec
pe   ay    vilbl  nPple  tuIprise do-et1i production, inp-et.la                  forcs ad Inenlopedl lo  to-ladi    ooein,                  n t Io  hItfiobt 
e Iot', and ohug   In  'tIlk,  Bet nuppIIn ealode ei-sl feed, needs,                  ocvron  dc.ot  ar  nt odyarble
qunIto    se  i  foo  PeoeIng, and lite    dindtteib.toos. teqaie                   easyfot  -   ni   ai  f- Irr  a  perteage o P tomb.  .nbo-fre
sc,-tr,      eteso  by  AOl bsond on pylyssnionica  -nd, fcc ocioa                    Igpoyy,jreti    lbor fo-o  cc  nIsIog, fo-oatrY, bunting arc
neniy adbe1th to-ider- ag.....i..nte1a teapert-r, body -eighto,                      fichicg anpereetage of totall1       c  forte.
age end  -e  dosteictitc  ofpopaatioc, and allosig lb peroect for                     ondasty (pret-lbor ifloo  in mining, Io.n.t-uti.t,  enufatocito  and
-ate no hbou..boin leteI.                                                               eleot-ilt    ao  an               P_na    -erectgt of total InIo  borer.
(-or epita spply  f protin  urao prtday) -         -rnicit-t .5 pe-attiI..Pae(ecet     otl    ae  andfen -irils io
espits  et coplp of  ood pe  day.  et cuply of fnnd Iis em   oacivt  rates ar  e%tmptd as t.Ita, male, un .fase   Ic  fore  ter
abot   Req.uietmet  foe~1 all .nutrie-  eatblished by blo  pred   a                      sngo   fttl   aead female  ptpulti-n  of all agSn  -cpelr
eisolsin a.looeno 605A  gr-, of ntalt` oei  pe 2m    o   0 g _as  of              iS LI ,'  and 17 aa   Thes  arc, thin  parti-patoi  cns  elec
anma  end polar protein  o  oho  10 gr-s  should bEl anml-rnic                              -ootoouef te PoPulation, end long nos  tred.  P feesioc
Thec  atanda-d  see Iare nth   those of 75 gram   of total Protein and                  sef... ..atiosa.sIur.e.I-
25 grass of animal poto,, as an averag  for the sneld, p-npo-d by PAO                 Inninml _lependean.y Ratio -  On-io of ppulno-  order 15 end t~,Idon  o1,tnI.
orteTidWorld Food  sroe..                                                        the labo  for_  In age grop of 15-61 yearn
Pmro"Pit, nrtebc suply  ro  nnma  and pulse - Protein  supply of find
dsveedfro  anmaltad pulaes. It gran  roe day.iCinfI0B3I0
Ci'ld  sn    -a  tentybn I     tI(per thousand) - isA-1 deathb  poe thoosand              PIrcetge of Peltat  Pnn  (boon In o-.b end hood)  R- ee-od by  -ite-
Is ag  grop 1-1fear, to chTlee  It thIa agr grop; for e             _t er            5     .poten, richest PT peroot, poores t 20 percent, and pon-en4ubper-en
oping  --tn-re  dutn derived from I if. tables                                            of households.
HELTHiC                                                                                   POVERTY fAPGITI GROtUPS
jlife     letancy at P11-th (OraI-  -_ea-ge  -eb-r of year  oflift                        Estimateld Abobute Poverty  . inis  level (00$ Per capo'ta  - urban aid rurl
remaInng atbirth  1950,1975,and 177  dan.t                                     iAlt  pnvet  inot     lVet i  that (sco            I...e lee     -eo   hith a rin,le
Infant F-tetltA,t,pe   husn) - lsna  drtb  ofifnsudroe                                      ntritionlly adeqonte dirt pIIc  -ssetiaI tofoo .eq...e_eto is eon
Attens to Safe dater (pe-oennof pc       taton - tnl. urban  and rurl                     Ectimated Pelatee Pocety Incim   I-el (00$ Per -pIta) - urban and corl 
Bomba  of people )tntal,uba,  ndrua   uith~... reaonbl  uI_es  to                         Rural relatVle  poesty iteone leorl Is os-third of  -erag  pe  05-Pital
caester supply I insi.de  treted surface astss ir entreated hueP-- pe                         a  Incis  of nth  country. Ueban Ieeli  deeoosd feco the cora  ir_e
un.toaainaned o-t-  suh a, that Cra  protected  .hosn-e, sPrings,                         aith siJotment f-r higher  .totfli Ingbeubanae
and sanItary slle) as Pereentage_of their  -p-etioe populations. be                     Estimated   opltIo- belt  AbnuePtet   rar Ire    erct' - ubnad
200 antee  fremaIbo... s.apb be  seierd  sne, sithln  r55-bl5
a  Ies   f tbstlue    nrrlaeseanml                   sasud-ieply
that Itlhe boseIfe or neabar  of the houshod do nt hae  n  ped                                                                    Rsni  and SInoa  bans bIobs_
dla1pe-trin...te part of the dsp on fetching the fanlly's  .t sa .e neds                                                     bec_oi  iAOlyci  and Projeetno-  bepartoent
August 1979



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
a/
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1978:  USS 180
b/                                                                                                           c/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978/79                                                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (M. constant prices)
US5 Bln.         %                  1955/56-1959/60   1960/61-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974/75   1975/76-1977/78
GNP at Market Prices                   117.08       100.0                        3.7                3.6                 3.7                 2.8                 5.6
Grass Do.estic Investeent               28.28        24.2
Crass National Saving                   28.11        24.0
C-rrent Account Balance  d/              0.50         0.4
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)             Labor Force              V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.             %                Mil.         %             US0$            of National Averaee
Agriculture                           24.5               46.6             130.0        72.1            188                 64
Indastry                              11.8-              22.3              20.2       11.2             582               199
Services                              16.3               31.1              30.2       16.7             542                186
Total/average                         52.6              100.0             180.4      100.0             292                100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Genoral Goverment                                                Central Government
R.. Bc.                of GDP                                    Rs'Brs             %o GiOP
Rs9  79      _97    1974/75-1978/79                                           1978179   1974/75-1978/79
Corrent Receipts                     183.65        19.1           18.3                                 107.71       11.2          10.6
Current Expenditures                 177.26        18.4           16.7                                 108.99       11.3          10,1
Current Surplun/Deficit                6.41         0.7            1.6                                 - 1.28       -0.1           0.5
Capital Expenditures  f/              78.41         8.1           7.2                                   57.34        6.0           5.1
External Assistan-e (net) d/           8.15         0.8            1.4                                   8.15        0.8           1.4
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES            1970171      1973/74      1974/75      1975/76       1976/77      1977/78      1978/79   Sente-ber 1978   September 1979
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money aod Quasi Money                121.4        198.4        220.3         254.7        308.9        370.4        445.6         398.5            473.7
Back Credit to Governaent (net)    52.6            87.3         95.3        101.1         110.2        134.7        153.9         139.5            161.7
Bank Credit to Cornercial Sector   64.6           107.0        126.7         153.9        185.1        212.2        253.3         225.8            273.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                                January 1979    January 1980
Money and Quasi Money as %
of GDP                             30.1         33.5         31.5         34.5         38.8          41.5         46.3
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                    100.0        139.7        174.9        173.0        176.6        185.8         185.8         185.3           224.0
Annaul percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                  7.7         20.2         25.2         - 1.1          2.1          5.2           -            0.4             20.9
Bank Credit to Government (net)    10.8            12.3          9.2           6.1          9.0         22.2         14.3          16.9             15.9
Bank Credit to Coesercial Sector   19.4            22.6         18.4         21.5          20.3         14.6         19.4          15.6             21.3
I/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Bank Atlas, 1979.
All other co-versions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Quick Estimates.
c/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bomk estimates; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All leans and advances to third parties have been netted out.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                     1976/77    1977/78    1978/79 h  1979/80  h         MERCH4NDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1978/79)
US$ Mlni,     !E
Exports of Goods                         5,753      6,315       6,976       7,800           Engineering Goods              671         11
Imports of Goods                        -5,928     -7,188      -8,488    -11,000            Tea                            420          7
Trade Balance                           -  175     -  873      -1,512      -3,200           Gems                           499          8
NFS (net)                                  379         692         882      1,050           Clothing                       378          6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                           204      - 181       - 630      -2,15D                    Products              319          5
Jute Manufactures              251          4
Interest Payments (net)  i/              -182       -  89         130         400           Iron Ore                       270          5
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -           -           -         -             Cotton Textiles                248          4
Net Transfers   j/                         695      1,077       1,000       1,000           Sugar                          224          4
-750           Others                       2,649         45
Balance on Current Account                 717         807        500        -750
Iotal                        5.929        100O
Official Aid
Disbursements                        1,955       1,628       1,695       1,870           EXTERNiAL DEBT, M4RCH 31. 1979
Amortization                           -560       -645        -702    -   687                                                 US$ billion
Transactions with IMF                     -337       -330        -158         -             Outstanding and Disbursed                  15.5
All Other Items                           -200         616         199       -183           Undisbursed                                 5.2
Outstanding, including                    20.7
Increase in Reserves (-)                -1,575     -2,076      -1,534    -   250                Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)                3,747      5,823       7,357       7,607                                             h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  k/              3,276      5,668       7,357       7,607           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978/79         15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                  IBRD/IDA LENDING, DECEMBER 31. 1979
Imports                                  1,581      1,811       2,043       4,050                                                 US  million
of which: Petroleum                  1,581       1,811       2,043       1,050                                            IBRD             IDA
exports                                     37          32         24         _             Outstanding and Disbursed        689             4,286
of which: Petroleum                     21          18         n.a.        -             Undisbursed                      614             2,621
Outstanding, including         1,303             6,907
Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971              US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972          US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After ned-June 1972                         Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978              : US$1.00 - Rs 8.188
Rs 1.00 - U050.122
End-Decmber 1979                         : US$1.00 - R  7.907
Rs 1.00 - U5S0.126
hi Estimated.
i/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt ta interest earned on foreign assets.
J/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements,
h1i Excludes net use of Itl credit.
1/  A-otisation and interest payments on foreign leans as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                             1,163.2
60 Credits fully disbursed                                     3,624.6
312-IN     1972   India    Population                 --         21.2      .33
342-IN     1972   India    Education                  --         12.0    5.31
356-IN     1973   India    IDBI I                     --         25.0    8.44
378-IN     1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                --          8.0    3.19
390-IN     1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --            55.0    6.09
456-IN     1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing            --         13.0    7.63
481-IN     1974   India    Trombay IV Fertilizer   --            50.0      .20
1011-IN     1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0          --     21.99
482-IN     1974   India    Karnataka Dairy            --         30.0   20.55
502-TN     1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --         83.0   34.24
520-IN     1974   India    Sindri Fertilizer          --         91.0     .24
521-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            --         27.7   15.60
522-IN     1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --            16.4    6.28
526-IN     1975   India    Drought Prone Areas        --         35.0    9.95
1079-IN     1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer          109.0       --     10.03
1097-IN     1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI            95.6       --      3.88
532-IN     1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --         45.0   10.27
541-IN     1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development            --         34.0   12.98
562-IN     1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD           --         24.0    6.40
572-IN     1975   India    Rural
Electrification I       --         57.0   12.46
585-IN     1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   22.02
598-IN     1975   India    Fertilizer Industry        --        105.0   54.05
604-IN     1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --           150.0   78.89



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower         Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN      1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.           --         4.0     2.22
610-IN      1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development             --        18.0    13.60
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0        --    105.52
1260-IN      1976   India    IDBI II                   40.0        --      23.72
1273-IN      1976   India    National Seeds I          25.0        --      24.00
1313-IN      1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0           --      23.42
1335-IN      1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0           --      10.12
680-IN      1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development             --         30.0   27.82
682-IN      1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development             --         20.0   94.18
685-IN      1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                   --        150.0   15.15
687-IN      1977   India    Madras Urban
Development             --         24.0   15.74
690-IN      1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research         --         12.0   12.00
695-IN      1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          --          4.0      .98
1394-IN      1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries           14.0      --      14.00
712-IN      1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.             --         10.0    9.09
720-IN      1977   India    Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation              --         23.0   17.16
728-IN      1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development             --          8.0    7.04
1473-IN      1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development            150.0       --     54.84
736-IN      1977   India    Maharasbtra
Irrigation              --         70.0   50.03
737-IN      1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension         --         13.0   10.54
740-IN      1977   India    Orissa Irrigation          --         58.0   48.31
1475-IN      1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII           80.0       --      35.81
747-IN      1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                 --        107.0   93.84
756-IN      1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II          --         87.0   50.80
761-IN      1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research                --          8.0    7.48



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN     1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0       --     24.72
1549-IN     1978   TEC       Third Trombay
Thermal Power         105.0       --     93.75
788-IN     1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --           117.6   99.74
793-IN     1978   India    Korba Thermal Power        --        200.0  178.77
806-IN     1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture          --         14.0   13.91
808-IN     1978   India    Gujarat Irrigation         --         85.0   78.99
815-IN     1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --         17.5   17.15
816-IN     1978   India    National Seeds II          --         16.0   15.87
1592-IN     1978   India    Telecommunications VII 120.0          --     59.80
824-IN     1978   India    National Dairy             --        150.0  141.98
842-IN     1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --        196.0  193.44
843-IN     1979   India    Haryana Irrigation         --        111.0   79.84
844-IN     1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --        190.0  172.69
848-IN     1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage             --         38.0   34.07
855-IN     1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --         27.0   26.84
862-IN     1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension              --         25.0   23.50
871-IN     1979   India    NCDC                       --         30.0   23.00
1648-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  50.0       --     50.00
874-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  --        200.0  182.38
889-IN     1979   India    Punjab Irrigation          --        129.0  120.30
899-IN     1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                 --         48.0   47.73
911-IN     1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --        175.0  175.00
925-IN     19-79   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --         23.0   21.68



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower         Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN      1979   India      ARDC III                  --      250.0      230.86
1743-IN*    1979   India       Thal Fertilizer         250.0       --       250.00
963-IN*    1979   India       Inland Fisheries                   20.0       20.00
Total                                   2,528.8  7,255.0
of which has been repaid                995.3      59.8
Total now outstanding                   1,533.5  7,195.2
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid   116.2         17.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/    1,515.9  7,195.2
Total undisbursed (excluding*)            555.6  2,669.9
*    Not yet effective
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                     Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                         Loan      Equity      Total
1959         Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959         Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -          0.9
1960         Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961         K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -          0.2
1963-66      Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.6        0.4        1.0
1964         Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.                0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.               11.8        1.3       13.1
1964         Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3        1.3
1967         Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0        0.1        1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70      Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8       18.9
1976         Escorts Limited                             6.6         -         6.6
1978         Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                 4.0        1.2        5.2
1980         Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.             7.5        1.1        8.6
TOTAL                                61.0       11.5       72.5
Less:  Sold                                   5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                               17.4         -        17.4
Cancelled                             6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                             31.5        9.1       40.6
Undisbursed                          10.5        1.7       12.2



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding reason-
ably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$538 million in FY79, compared to US$497 million
in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal year through
March 31, 1980 totalled US$517 million, representing an increase of about
44% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,226
million as of March 31, 1980, reflects the lead time which would be expected
given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects.  ICICI continues to be a   -
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to retort
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II          _
Page 7 of 17
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been started under this project
after the completion of the Second ARDC Project towards the end of 1979.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date:  September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
November 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Ln. No. 1743   Thai Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1980 (expected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a
change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in completion of
engineering contracts. However, project construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six months.
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project
preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the
sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Delays in project implementation were encountered as a result of
frequent changes in management in the early stages, and these have necessi-
tated an extension of the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 1981, to allow
for completion of works and withdrawal of the credit. Progress is improving,
however. As of May, 1979, construction on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under
the project was underway or completed, and trade had shifted to about half of
these. An additional five markets may be included in the project at the
request of the State government.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is virtually complete. The two Population Centers, established
to design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
are now functioning. The Population Centers are expected to complete their
evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction of management
information and evaluation systems by the present closing date.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. The water treatment
works were successfully completed on schedule at the end of 1979. Completion
of construction of the project sewerage works is scheduled for mid-1980.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation of
Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule.
Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing
satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been
made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
the severe floods of September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coopera-
tive scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Karnataka 923,
Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response had been excellent and
project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the
establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is good and con-
struction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satisfactory pace.
Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint to DCS formation
in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project, three subprojects
with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been
appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight subprojects are
in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy
equipment is well underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a
result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date:  June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
TW)           Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing-Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date:  September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
December 14, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These seven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementation, although progress in areas where
regular extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the
system itself. Finally, in Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered
under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (which is not yet effec-
tive), project implementation is still in the very early stages, although
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken which
should pave the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension
system.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of Februtary 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State-
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date:  May 17, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project was designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and supply



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
raw materials to cottage industries. The project provides for large-scale
tree plantation on 48,600 ha of public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the
second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service. Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0'million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.         US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874         May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is the first of four power stations in the
Government's program for the development of large central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such
station, at Korba, is being financed under Credit 793. The National Thermal
Power Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation
of these power stations. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW
extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. Loan 1648 and Credit 874 sup-
port the construction of the first three 200 MW generating units in Andhra
Pradesh together with related facilities and associated transmission. All
these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$114 million have been ap-
proved to date. Although this project suffered delays in preparation of
technical specifications and evaluation of bids for highly sophisticated
equipment, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date:  March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
financed by the Rural Electrification Corporation. There are now thirteen
State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared with six at
the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due principally
to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to interna-
tional competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 provides continued support to
the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program, and is helping to
finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs, including
the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an early stage
of implementation, and procurement is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
FARAKKA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      (a)  Timetable of Key Events
This project is the first stage of the fourth
Centrally owned large power station in India.
A report on the project site was published in
December 1974 and a supplemental feasibility
report was prepared in May 1979.
(b) The agencies which have prepared the project
Ministry of Energy/Central Electricity Authority/
National Thermal Power Corporation Limited.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank, and date
of the first mission to consider the project
Preliminary report was submitted to the Bank in
early 1975. The scope of this project was dis-
cussed at the time of appraisal of the first stage
of the Singrauli development in April 1976.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 25, 1979.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 22, 1980.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 10, 1980.
Section II:    Special Conditions
(a) NTPC to appoint project management and information
system consultants by October 15, 1980 (para 47).
(b) GOI to ensure adequate coal supplies (para 48);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) NTPC to have due regard for ecological and environ-
mental factors (para 49);
(d) NTPC to achieve and maintain 9.5% rate of return
(para 50);
(e) NTPC to inform the Association of any proposal to
modify existing limitation on its borrowing powers
(para 51);
(f) GOI to conclude a subsidiary loan agreement with NTPC
satisfactory to the Association as a condition of
effectiveness (para 51);
(g) NTPC to sell power under satisfactory bulk supply
contracts (para 52); and
(h) GOI to obtain, by October 10, 1980 undertakings
from the recipient SEBs in the Eastern Region and
DVC to purchase power (para 52).



11-                          12-                          1.                           80-                          84
DE REP OF
AFANI-
IJ S S R                                                                                                                                        J-    -d 11
C  H      N  A
DEM REP OF
AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                                                                          pl.
-l- N.d                               MA
N A
4-b-
U
M
2-
B H U T A 'N'
"T.
Sk                                                                            Z4
BANGLADESH
21-
d
Ih-I
W.
B U R M A
A-
Soz                                                                                                                                              6                                                                                          2C'
N-i Z              "h
h-
L
("- I.d                                                                    Ki
I:61,
0r
Ar a 41                                        H
00,Ep STATToos
TEW"t, fQW8k'S7ATR5W
0             0         SLOSTAIA M
-            -         I 00 kV IkANSW551014 JINES
42
2204, I-VSM'SSON 'NES
220 kV 14A
%WNDA?JSS
;K                                                                                 STATE BOWDOIES
Ah-
600
KILOMETERS
Id -11
LANKA
12-






IBRD  14518
DEMREP    S0'  90'         l   87'30'                                    8745'                                    aa0oo                             SEPTEMBER 1979
DERM REPO F        8
AFGHANIST,AN '   CsApprrrSrrlft 1mf  %,t,&
J   t    T?     ~~~~C  H I N  A
PAKISTAN/                         AN                                                                                                   N    D  I A
'-\t    </<<>KKA/' 9<>                                                       FARAKKA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
INDIA   Ero                                          '                                                        PROJECT SITE LAYOUT
-2J" X  1  V/ EeL]ol )SX1 8.tA,RXoAs   ~               <t,    sue                                           2          PROJECT POWER PLANT
2.                                                                                                                             V . ; : :, \ 7 _ * C r,   PROJECT ASH DISPOSAL AREA
GaRriga\  f    r;OY faf *efw! 0 </  g   ,./    \nli :E,  ,rl   -   PROJECT 400 kV TRANSMISSION LINE (PROPOSED)
fA<piwparU :\ z :: h      '0                                                      C 'I ir  :  _ ~   <     PROJECT 400V  TRANSMISSION LINE (PLANNED)
PROJECT RAILROAD
-itr 0 \ j : 0 0 ;;,; E L 40 -, -To ) .                  ':                                                                                E EX   ISTING RAILROADS
COAL DEPOSITS
0       VILLAGES
___________________________________________________                          /-r------j-,   RAILROAD STOPS
87'15'                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CANAL
W.rldBankS.   -ff-sclasi-ly for . -'.                                      /             4   I l //             }                        BRIDGES
rhedenom maritmsusedanttshe     . I . - , &d\ >/1                                                                             -=:   RIVERS
do _,t /mply, on_IhD p~, tt oj the  .: .                               /                  h   \  f                            _    _    STATE BOUNDARIES
judgm - onth. e/.g9/stftus j / |   w Simaha l                                                                                 .         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
r                    - nce                            Bor|
25/00'    r>Hur:                              )inpa or    J                                                                                                 2500 -
/             -          O~~~~~~Baramasia  1/a                                                    iXt
0       5       10      15      20
KI LOMETERS
g                  ~~~~~Ratanpur                           Baraw                                             C 
oKarmatanra t\ TL9
-  --simlong    BrJlatola6                                                     t       
24'45'
2445'         Sundarparharr          -00\zo                                                                                                       v52-5
Liicra                           \Dronpur  SAPON                                BANGLADESH
a '    \  <\^t~~~~~hulio1\J <0-
Pokaur0         (
24D30                       -  l~~~~~~~ubera    ara                                                                    '                                    <
iespur                                                         n                             
;       / />                                               \        \     E
\&IhoEi                 /                  ::  - g SAGARDIGHI-
-24'15 _'-                                                                                              o          
3 730'                   V*_             87'45'                                    80'                                         s5



