CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 335 KO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 335 KO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1972, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the National Agricultural Cooperative
Federation established under the Agricultural Cooperative Law of July 29, 1961,
as amended up to March 30, 1967, of the Borrower (hereinafter called the
Federation) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Federation the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01: "13. The term
'Project Agreement' shall have the meaning set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement."
(b)   Section 5.01 is deleted.


﻿4
(c)  Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) becomes 6.02 (h).
(d)   Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the Project
Agr 2ment" after the words "The Development Credit Agreement".
(e)  Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words "or under the Project
Agreement" after the words "The Development Credit Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreenent" means the Project  Agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Federation, providing for the carrying
out of part of the Project by the Federation, as the same may be amended from
time to time and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement.
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan to be made by the Borrower to
the Federation pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of and Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)   "Government Loan" means the loan in an amount equal to W 1,400
million to be made by the Borrower to the Federation pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)
of and Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(d)   "Law" means Agricultural Cooperative Law of July 29, 1961, as
amended up to March 30, 1967.
(e)   "Kun Cooperative" means a cooperative established pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter III of the Law.
(f)   "Participating Cooperative" means a cooperative which has entered into
an agreement with the Federation in accordance with Section 2.12 of the Project
Agreement.
(g)   "Beneficiary" means any farmer or group of farmers receiving a loan
under the Project.
(h)   "Special Fund" means the Account referred to in Section 3.07 of this
Agreement and established and maintained in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿5
(i)   "Won" and the letter "W" mean the currency of the Borrower.
(j) "EPB" means the Economic Planning Board of the Borrower.
(k)   "By-laws" means the By-laws of the Federation of August 1961, as
revised up to February 18, 1971.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million five hundred thousand dollars
($10,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 1, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 1 and
September 1 in each year.


﻿6
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing
September 1, 1982 and ending March 1, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on March 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Director, Economic Cooperation Bureau, EPB, or Vice
President, Finance, of the Federation, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
the Federation to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action (including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources)
necessary or appropriate to enable the Federation to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall, under arrangements and on terms and conditions
(including, inter alia, provisions set forth in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement)
satisfactory to the Association, lend to the Federation the equivalent of the
proceeds of the Credit for relending to Participating Cooperatives and for other
purposes included in the Project.
(c)   Without any limitation or restriction upon the generality of the
provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, under
arrangements and on terrms and conditions (including, inter alia, provisions set
forth in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement) satisfactory to the Association,
lend to the Federation, not later than September 1, 1974, an amount equal to
1,400 million Won. To this end, the Borrower shall make available to the Federation
an initial amount equal to 350 million Won and shall ensure that all amounts


﻿7
under the Government Loan are lent in such manner that such amounts, together
with amounts under the Subsidiary Loan credited to the Special Fund less amounts
of loans made to Beneficiaries from out of the Special Fund, shall not at any
time be less than 350 million Won.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon the generality of
the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, not later
than December 31, 1973, make available to the Federation, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, an amount equal to
661 million Won to enable the Federation to write off part of its bad debts.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall exercise its rights in connection with the
Subsidiary Loan and the Government Loan in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.04. To coordinate the activities of the Federation and other
agencies and departments of the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project Coordination Committee with
powers, functions and terms of reference as set forth in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, upon the completion of the study referred
to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, but, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, not later than February 28, 1973, cause the Federation to
employ duly qualified and competent agricultural and management consultants
acceptable to, and upon terms and conditions (including provisions set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement) satisfactory to, the Association for, inter alia, the
following purposes:
(a)   to study, and make recommendations for the improvement of, the
organization of the Federation and, if appropriate, Kun Cooperatives; and
(b)   study, and make recommendations for the improvement of, the
financial condition and accounting procedures of the Federation, and assist in the
installation of a system of cost accounting for the Federation's accounts.
Section 3.06. (a) Upon the completion of the study by the agricultural and
management consultants referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall (A) cause the Federation to promptly furnish such study to the
Association for its review and comments; and (B) agree with the Association on
a program for the implementation of mutually agreed recommendations (including


﻿8
modifications thereof); and (C) in consultation with the Association, determine
whether the Subsidiary Loan and the Government Loan shall be maintained as
loans in accordance with terms and conditions set forth in respect thereof in Parts
A and B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement or whether the amounts thereunder
shall be made available to the Federation in such other form and on such other
terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory to the Borrower, the Association and
the Federation.
(b)   The Borrower covenants that it will take all such measures (including
but not limited to legislative measures) as shall be necessary for the implementation
of the Borrower's agreements or undertakings set forth in paragraph (a) of this
Section.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the Federation to constitute and
operate an Account in accordance with provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower undertakes that whenever the Borrower shall
cause the Federation to perform any services, the Borrower shall provide sufficient
funds to the Federation to ensure +hat the Federation does not incur any loss
in the performance of such services.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures including
legislative measures to enable the Federation and Kun Cooperative to carry out
the credit operations under the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower undertakes to meet the needs of Beneficiaries
for power tillers under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by the Federation of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and


﻿9
expenditures of the Federation and Participating Cooperatives and, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower associated in the
carrying out of any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Federation and Participating Cooperatives and, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower associated in the
carrying out of any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by the Federation of its obligations under
the Project Agreement and arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.


﻿10
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Federation shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Federation will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(c)   The Law, the Bank of Korea Act, the General Banking Act, Presidential
Decree in pursuance thereof, or the By-laws shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect
the ability of the Federation to carry out its covenants, agreements and obligations
set forth in the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction. shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Federation or for
the suspension of its operations.
(e)   The Federation shall have become unable to pay any of its debts as
they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by the Federation
or by others whereby any of the property of the Federation shall or may be
distributed among its creditors.


﻿K.  the11
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and the Federation; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of Section 6.02 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the Federation have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.
(b)   The arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement
shall have been made.
(c)   The initial amount equal to 350 million Won referred to in Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement shall have been made available to the Federation.
(d)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all necessary acts,
consents and approvals to be performed or given by the Borrower, its political
subdivisions or agencies or by any agency of any political subdivision or otherwise
to be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project
and to enable the Federation to perform all of the covenants, agreements and
obligations of the Federation set forth in the Project Agreement, together with
all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been performed or
given.
(e)   The technical unit referred to in Section 2.11 (i) of the Project
Agreement shall have been established.
(f)   The Project Manager referred to in Section 2.11 (ii) of the Project
Agreement shall have been employed.


﻿12
(g)   The Farm Management Expert referred to in Section 2.11 (ii) of the
Project Agreement shall have been employed.
(h)   The interest rates referred to in Section 2.13 of the Project Agreement
shall have been raised to levels set forth in paragraphs (1) and (8) of Part B of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Federation, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of the Federation in accordance with its tenns.
(b)   That the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement have been duly authorized by the Borrower and constitute a valid and
binding obligation of the Borrower.
(c)   That all acts, consents and approvals referred to in the foregoing
Section 7.01 (d) together with all necessary powers and rights in connection
therewith, have been duly and validly performed or given and that no other acts,
consents or approvals are required in order to authorize the carrying out of the
Project and to enable the Federation to perform all of the covenants, agreements
and obligations of the Federation set forth in the Project Agreement.
Section 7.03. The date February 26, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.01 (a), 3.03,
3.04, 3.07, 3.08, 3.10 and 4.02 of this Agreement and the provisions of
paragraphs (a) through (e) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement and those of
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
a date 16 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister, Economic Planning Board, of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.


﻿13
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Minister, Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:
EPB
Seoul
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By /s / Duck Woo Nam
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Aldewereld
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Loans to Benefi-              10,000,000           75% of loan dis-
ciaries (for in-                                   bursements made
vestments other                                    by the Federa-
than purchases of                                  tion and Parti-
power tillers)                                     cipating Coop-
eratives
II.   Training facilities              215,000           75% of total ex-
penditures
III.  Salary and allowances             75,000           100% of foreign
of the Farm Manage-                                expenditures
ment Expert and Mush-
room Expert referred
to in Section 2.11
(ii) of the Project
Agreement
IV.   Management Consultant            210,000           100% of foreign
services                                           expenditures
TOTAL         10,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and


﻿15
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to May 16, 1972; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above, if the estimate of the
expenditures under any Category shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then
allocated to such Category and no longer required therefor (hereinafter called the
Savings) will be reallocated by the Association to any other Category or Categories
as shall be agreed to between the Borrower and the Association by increasing
correspondingly the amount allocated to such Category or Categories and the
Association will increase correspondingly the percentage of expenditures thereof
set forth in this Schedule (up to a maximum of 100% net of taxes); provided,
however, that if such Savings accrue under Category I and/or II, the Association
shall reallocate the proceeds of the Credit to, or raise the said percentage of,
Category I and/or II (up to a maximum of 100% net of taxes), as the case may
be, so that the Savings are, as nearly as possible, fully disbursed; provided further,
that all adjustments under the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall be subject
to the requirements for contingencies as determined by the Association in respect
of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of expenditures under Category I and/or
II of this Schedule shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for
reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category or Categories, as the case may be, may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿I
16
6.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above, if the Association shall have
reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in any Category is
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the
Project Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, Without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Federation's agricultural lending program for
farmers investing mainly in orchards, sericulture, mushrooms, poultry and swine
and consists of the following:
Part A:     The provision of medium- and long-term loans over a period of three
years to assist the said farmers in financing investments in on-farm
improvements including buildings, planting material, farm machinery
(including power tillers), livestock and other inputs for the
establishment period of development and expansion of the farms.
Part B:     The provision of technical services and training facilities for the
Federation (including buildings for the Federation) and Participating
Cooperatives.
Part C:     The study of the organization of the Federation and the installation
of the cost accounting system therein by the management consultants.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Lending Terms and Conditions
Applicable to the Subsidiary Loan
and the Government Loan
Part A:    Subsidiary Loan
1.   The Federation shall pay interest at the rate of seven per cent (7%) per
annum on the Subsidiary Loan.
2.   The grace period shall be 5 years and the period of repayment (including
the grace period) shall not be less than 15 years from the Effective Date.
Part B:    Government Loan
The provisions of Part A of this Schedule shall also apply to the Government
Loan.
Part C:
If any decision of the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.06 (a) (C) of this
Agreement shall so require, the Association may revise the provisions set forth
in this Schedule.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
Policy Statement on Constitution
and Operation of the Special Fund
Part A:
(1)   The Federation shall establish an Account called the Special Fund and shall
maintain such Fund for a period not less than 15 years from the Effective
Date.
(2)  Resources of the Special Fund
The Special Fund shall be credited from time to time with:
(a)   monies equivalent to the proceeds of the Development Credit disbursed
by the Association;
(b)   monies under the Government Loan; and
(c)   monies received from Beneficiaries by way of repayments of loans
made under the Project and interest and other charges thereon.
(3)   Use of Resources of the Special Fund
(a)   Monies standing to the credit of the Special Fund shall be applied
by the Federation for making medium- and long-term loans for
agricultural purposes such as development of orchards, sericulture,
mushrooms, poultry and swine.
(b)   Monies under paragraph 2 (c) of Part A of this Schedule may also
be applied for making loans for purposes similar to those set forth
in the preceding paragraph.
(4)  Maintenance of Accounts
The Federation shall maintain and shall cause Participating
Cooperatives to maintain separate accounts for each type of credit operation
financed out of the Special Fund.
Part B:    Lending Criteria
(1)   The Federation shall lend funds to Participating Cooperatives at an interest
rate of 9% per annum (except as the Association shall otherwise agree) for


﻿20
relending to Beneficiaries and shall cause the Participating Cooperatives to
lend to Beneficiaries who are financially viable and whose project shall be
consistent with the Borrower's development priorities.
(2)   Only projects that are established, on careful appraisal (including field
investigation) to be technically feasible and financially viable and likely to
be well-managed, shall be financed.
(3)   (a)   The period of repayment of loans shall be based on the life of the
assets or development financed and on realistic estimates of
Beneficiaries' cash-flow.
(b) The loan maturities for following categories of loans and grace periods
in respect thereof shall not exceed the following:
Grace          Repayment
Lending Categories               Period            Period
(in years)
(i)   Loans for Growing
Apples                              7                 5
Grapes                              4                 6
Peaches                             4                 4
Pears                               6                 4
Sericulture                         3                 5
Mushrooms                           3                 5
(ii)  Loans for Developing
Broilers                            1                 4
Laying Hens                         1                 4
Hogs                                1                 4
(4)   No loans shall be made for refinancing investments financed from    other
sources.
(5)   A loan to any Beneficiary shall not exceed 80% of the estimated cost of
the investment proposed by him. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, loans to any Beneficiary shall not, in the aggregate, exceed W 50
million.
(6)   All loans of the Federation and of the Participating Cooperatives shall be
made against adequate security. Loan applications shall be evaluated in terms
I


﻿21
of projected incremental returns from the investment and resulting repaying
capacity.
(7)   Loans from the Fund shall be made to Beneficiaries, as far as practicable,
through Kun Cooperatives provided, however, that a Participating Cooperative
meets the following requirements:
(a)   that the real value of its assets is sufficient to meet its liabilities and
that its financial condition is not likely to be materially and adversely
affected as a result of any litigation;
(b)   its overdues, at the end of the preceding financial year, do not exceed
10% of its outstanding loans;
(c)   it has adopted a standard procedure and principles for extending the
loan maturity so as to limit such extensions to situations of crop failure
due to natural calamity or any other cause beyond the control of
the Beneficiary; and
(d)   its management is satisfactory and its appraisal staff has been suitably
trained for lending under the Project and supervision or that such staff
shall be so trained within 12 months from the date of this Agreement.
(8)   The rate of interest charged from Beneficiaries by Participating Cooperatives
and the Federation shall be 12% per annum (excluding any other fees charged
for services). The rate specified above shall be the minimum charged from
Beneficiaries and shall be fixed from time to time in the light of the current
market rate, the cost of the resources to the Federation and Participating
Cooperatives and their operating expenses, including adequate provision for
bad debts, depreciation, taxes and general reserves.
(9)   Records shall be kept to determine loan installments that mature and to
determine the progress of collections thereof.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 5
Terms of Reference for Management Consultants
Objective
1.    The objective of the Consultants' study is to suggest changes in the accounting
system, operational procedures and the organization of the Federation as would
enable the Federation to:
(a)   obtain a sound and detailed statement of its assets and liabilities and
the profit and loss position in regard to each of the activities
undertaken by the Federation generally and, in particular, of its credit
operations;
(b)   on the basis of investigations pursuant to the foregoing paragraph (a),
define and follow appropriate policies in regard to matters such as
lending, recovery of loans, purchases, sales, pricing, inventories and
personnel; and
(c)   determine what changes are required in its organizational set-up and
operating procedures to enable the Federation to deal more effectively
with the affiliated cooperatives and other borrowers.
Major Activities
2.    The main categories of the Federation's activities to be separately studied
are:
(a)   credit;
(b)   fertilizer distribution;
(c)   distribution of other farm   supplies and inputs;
(d)   marketing and processing of agricultural produce;
(e)   transportation and storage of agricultural produce;
(f)   mutual insurance; and
(g)   agricultural extension, cooperative education and training.


﻿23
Of the categories of activities mentioned above, the credit operations shall receive
particular attention and shall be subject to examination in greater detail than other
activities.
Responsibilities of the Consultants
3.    The Consultants shall:
(a)   review   the  over-all organization   of  the  Federation   and   Kin
Cooperatives with particular emphasis on the accounting system and
shall install a cost accounting system for the Federation's accounts;
(b)   review the Federation's and Kun Cooperatives' lending, procurement
and marketing methods and procedures; and
(c)   recommend measures:
(i)         to   determine  a   sound  and   accurate presentation   of the
profitability and financial position of each of the various
activities carried on by the Federation and Kun Cooperatives,
on the basis of an account plan for each cost center;
(ii)        to ensure that detailed and adequate management information
is readily available on the Federation's operations, in particular,
with respect to the liquidity position, loan extensions and
collections, purchases, sales and inventories;
(iii)       to   strengthen   the   Federation's   staff  through   suitable
arrangements for recruitment and training;
(iv)        to  improve the profitability and financial position of the
Federation and Kun Cooperatives;
(v)         to improve the organization of the Federation's accounting,
internal control and audit; and
(vi)        to separate credit operations progressively from the Federation's
other activities through such structural and other changes in
relation to the Federation as may be necessary; and
(d)   assist the management and staff of the Federation in planning and
putting into operation the program of reorganization to be determined


﻿24
by the Federation, in consultation with the Association, on the basis
of the Consultants' recommendations.
Work Procedure
4.    The Consultants, after initial discussion with the Federation's management,
shall decide the method and procedure for conducting the study and shall, as
necessary, visit branches of the Federation and other cooperatives and meet with
officials of the Government of Korea, Bank of Korea and other banks,
representatives of cooperatives and farmers' organizations, individual farmers and
any other knowledgeable or interested persons.
Time Schedule
5.    The Consultants shall carry out their functions set forth in paragraphs 3 (a)
through (c) of this Schedule within 8 months and the entire assignment within
18 months, respectively, from the date of their employment by the Federation.
Key Personnel
6.    The Consultants will comprise a duly qualified and competent cost
accountant, financial analyst and business management specialist and shall be
assisted by suitably qualified staff recruited locally. The essential qualifications of -
said experts are set forth below:
(a)   Financial Analyst: shall be designated as team leader, and will be
responsible for organizing and implementing the study with a view
to mobilizing Korean expertise in conjunction with his own work and
that of the other experts. He should be familiar with appropriate
methods of systems analysis and should have experience in banking
(preferably  agricultural  credit),  business  administration  and
management.
(b)   Cost Accountant: shall be responsible for recommending improved
organization and procedures for an accounting system that would
provide the information required for policy and management decisions.
He should be experienced in cost accounting in respect of banking
and business operations.
(c)   Business Management Expert: shall be responsible for recommending
reorganization and management procedures with a view to improving
the efficiency and financial results of the principal activities carried


﻿25
out by the Federation and Kun Cooperatives. He should be experienced
in administration, analysis and management of agricultural credit and
supply organizations, and also in personnel administration and training.
7.    The provisions set forth in this Schedule may be modified by agreement
of the Borrower and the Association in the light of the findings and
recommendations of the ongoing study of the Korean agricultural sector being
carried out by a team of the Michigan State University.


﻿26
SCHEDULE 6
Terms of Reference for the
Project Coordinating Committee
Objectives
1.   The principal objective is to ensure coordinated planning and execution of
Project operations within the Federation and between the Federation and other
Government departments and agencies.
Composition
2.    The Committee will be constituted under the chairmanship of the Executive
Vice President of the Federation and shall include representatives of the Federation,
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Office of Rural Development, EPB, Ministry
of Finance, and Agricultural Development Corporation and with the Project
Manager as its Secretary and the Farm Management Expert as the Adviser.
Responsibilities
3.    The Committee shall:
(a)   coordinate specific Project investments, viz. orchard, sericulture,
livestock and mushroom development, with over-all priorities and with
related Government programs;
(b)   assure cooperation of administrative and technical extension staff of
the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agriculture Development
Corporation at headquarters, Province and Kun levels;
(c)   review progress, identify difficulties, if any, in th- execution of the
Project and recommend measures for the removal thereof; and
(d)   plan and implement procedures for evaluating the progress of Project
investments and assessing the impact of said investments on the Korean
economy.
Meetings
4.    The Chairman or the Deputy Chairman shall convene the Committee at least
once every three months; the first meeting shall be held within one month from


﻿27
the Effective Date. The Secretary shall be responsible for the preparation and timely
distribution of the agenda and shall record and maintain minutes of the meetings
and ensure appropriate follow-up action.


