CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 335 KO
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE FEDERATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE FEDERATION (hereinafter called
the Federation).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Korea (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to ten million five hundred thousand dollars ($10,500,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that the Federation agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Borrower has agreed to lend to the Federation the proceeds
of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement on terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Federation, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Federation shall carry out the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and


﻿4
in conformity with sound administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural
practices.
Section 2.02. The Federation shall, upon the completion of the study referred
to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement, but, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, not later than February 28, 1973, employ
duly qualified and competent agricultural and management consultants acceptable
to, and upon terms and conditions (including provisions set forth in Schedule 5
to the Development Credit Agreement) satisfactory to, the Association for, inter
alia, the following purposes:
(a)   to study, and make recommendations for the improvement of, the
organization of the Federation and, if appropriate, Kun Cooperatives; and
(b)   study, and make recommendations for the improvement of, the
financial condition and accounting procedures of the Federation, and assist in the
installation of a system of cost accounting for the Federation's accounts.
Section 2.03. In carrying out civil works to be executed by the Federation
and included in the Project, the Federation shall employ contractors acceptable
to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Federation
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent
to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) The Federation shall furnish to the Association promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Federation: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's


﻿5
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. The Federation shall duly perform all its obligations under
arrangements re'rred to in Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement.
Except as the .ssociation shall otherwise agree, the Federation shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning
or waiving such arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Federation
shall ensure that loans shall be made only to such Beneficiaries (who are mushroom
growers) who shall have entered into with a canner (i) an agreement providing
for participation by such canner of at least 20% in the cost of investment in
mushroom growing facilities and (ii) a management contract, satisfactory to the
Federation.
Section 2.09. The Federation shall cause the Kun Cooperatives to invest,
from time to time, in the Federation's share capital to ensure that the shareholding
of each such Kun Cooperative shall be raised, not later than December 31, 1973,
to the level of 2% and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not later
than December 31, 1974, to the level of 3%, of the amounts borrowed (and
outstanding on such date) by such Kun Cooperative from the Federation.
Section 2.10. The Federation shall: (i) continue to use its best endeavors
to collect overdues from borrowers; (ii) collect data on all loans outstanding
(including loans with deferred maturities) and on amounts falling due for
repayment; and (iii) not later than June 30, 1973 make and maintain adequate
provisions for writing off the bad debts of the Federation, all in accordance with
the recommendations made from time to time by the auditors referred to in Section
4.02 of this Agreement; and (iv) train appraisal staff of the Federation and Kun
Cooperatives in lending policies and procedures for a period of six to eight weeks.
Section 2.11. The Federation shall: (i) establish and maintain a technical
unit to, inter alia, examine and suggest improvements in appraisal methods and
procedures and to oversee the progress of the Project; and (ii) employ a duly
qualified and competent Project Manager, Farm Management Expert and, if
necessary, Mushroom Expert, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿6
Section 2.12. The Federation shall lend the funds from the Special Fund
for relending to Beneficiaries to such Kun Cooperatives only as shall enter into
an agreement with the Federation on terms and conditions consistent with this
Agreement and Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.13. The Federation shall: (i) (A) revise its lending procedures and
(B) raise interest rates, and (ii) cause Participating Cooperatives to raise interest
rates and revise their lending procedures, so that the Federation and the
Participating Cooperatives can follow for their medium- and long-term loans under
the Project, lending terms, criteria and procedures uniform to those set forth in
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.14. The Federation shall constitute and operate the Special Fund
in accordance with provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Federation
Section 3.01. The Federation shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 3.02. The Federation shall conduct its business and operations in
accordance with sound agricultural, administrative and financial policies and
practices, and, under the supervision of competent and experienced management.
Section 3.03. The Federation shall take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the carrying out of the Project or in the conduct of its business.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Federation shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Federation shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related


﻿7
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than -four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Federation
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Federation shall furnish to the Association not later than
a date three months from the Effective Date, certified copies of its audited accounts
and financial statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 1971.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and the Federation shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Association and the Federation shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance
e f their respective obligations inder this Agreement, the administration, operations
nd financial condition of the Federation and other matters relating to the purpose
of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and the Federation shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations inder this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower
and the Federation of their respective obligations under arrangements referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Federation shall enable the Association's representatives
to inspect all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of the Federation and
any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿8
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the Federation thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date 16 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the President of the Federation of this event
and, upon the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿9
For the Federation:
President
National Agricultural Cooperative
Federation
Scoul
Korea
Cable address:
Konacof
Seoul
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the Federation may be taken or executed by the President of the Federation
or such other person or persons as the President of the Federation shall designate
in writing.
Section 7.03. The Federation shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of the Federation, take any action or execute any
documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the President of
the Federation pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
Jf which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Aldewereld
Vice President
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
COOPERATIVE FEDERATION
By /s / Joe Sul Lee
Authorized Representative


﻿10
SCHEDULE I
Procurement
1.   All farm  machinery and implements, tools and other materials, for the
execution of the Project shall be procured through normal commercial channels.
Tit4Beneficiaries may obtain such goods either from the Federation, Participating
Cooperatives or from any other suppliers.
2.   (a)   Contracts for civil works (such as buildings and structures) included
in the Project and estimated to cost $75,000 equivalent or more shall be procured
through local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures similar to those
set forth in the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, publi'shed by the Bank in August 1969, as revised in May 1971.
(b)   "local competitive bidding" means inviting local firms to make bids.
This shall be accomplished by publication of suitable advertisements in the local
press and Government publications. The time interval between advertising and the
opening of bids will be a minimum of thirty (30) days.
(c) Before inviting bids, the Federation shall furnish to the Association,
cop ies of proposed bid invitation documents and description of tendering
procedures for its comments, and shall make such modifications in the said
doqprter'ts r procedures, as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to prospective bidders.
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated, before a final decision
on the award is made, the Federation shall inform the Association of the name
of the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower and the Federation
whether it has any objection to the intended award on the ground that it is
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this
Agreement; and if the Association, after receiving the comments of the Borrower,
determines that such inconsistency exists, the Association shall promptly inform
the Borrower and the Federation of such determination and the reasons therefor.
(e)   Two copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Association
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.


﻿11
(f)   The Federation shall ensure that the terms and conditions of the
contract shall not, without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
3.    In the approval and disbursement of loans under the Project care will be
taken to ensure that goods and services under the Project loans are procured at
reasonable prices taking into account other relevant factors such as time of delivery
and efficiency and reliability thereof, and availability of service and spare parts
therefor.
*


