FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 1 8b-IRE
APPRAISAL OF
A LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRELAND
May 25, 1973
Regional Projects Department
kurope, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.






IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .............................    i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION            ..........................                      1
II.   BACKGRT'.1 .   .........................................                1
A. Genleral .              .................                           1
B.   The Agricultural Sector ....................                      2
C.  Irish Agriculture and the EEC.                                     3
D.   Agricultural Services.4
E.   Agricultuiral Banking and Credit ................                 5
F.   Marketing ......................................                  5
G.    Land Tenure and Farm Structure ...............                   6
H.   Government Policies on Livestock Development  ...                 7
III.    THE PROJECT .........................................                  8
A.   General Features ...............................                  8
B,    Detailed Features ..............................                 9
C.   Cost Estimates .................................                 11
D.   Financing .......................................                12
E.   Procurement ........... .........................                13
F. Disbursements .14
C.  Organization and Management .14
H.  Lending Policies and Procedures .15
I.   Accounts and Audit ..........................                   16
IV.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND MARKETING, AND PRODUCER
BENEFITS .........................................                    17
A.   Production .....................................                 17
B. Markets and Marketing .17
C. Producer Benefits .18
V.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION   .                 .19
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .20
This report is based on the findings of a mission composed of
Messrs. J. Gerririg, R. Hanan and T. Tsui (Bank) and R. Bailey and C. Percival
.          (consultants), which visited the Republic of Ireland in April/May 1972.  All
mission members as well as Messrs. J. Cerych and M. Raczynski (Bank) contri-
buted to its preparation.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Livestock Industry
2.   Government's Agricultural Policy with Special Reference
to Structural Reforms
3.   Ireland's Agriculture and the EEC
4.   Marketing and Developmenr
5.   The Barking Svstem and Agricultural Credit
6.   Model - Beef Breeding Farm - 100 ac
Table 1 - Herd Projections
Table 2 - Sales and Operating Expenses Projections
Table 3 - Investment Projections
Table 4 - Financial Projections
Table 5 - Financial Rate of Return Calculation
7.   Model   Beef Rearing/Fattening Farm - 80 ac
Table 1 - Herd Projections
Table 2 - Sales and Operating Expenses Projections
Table 3 - Investment Projections
Table 4 - Financial Projections
Table 5 - Financial Rate of Return Calculation
8.   Mod el - Dairy/Beef Fattening Farm - 60 ac
Table I - Herd Projections
Table 2 - Sales and Operating Expenses Projections
Table 3 - Investment Projections
Table 4   Financial Projections
Table 5 - Financial Rate of Return Calculation
9.   Model - Pig Breeding Unit - 40 sows
Table 1 - Herd Projections
Table 2 - Sales and Operating Expenses Projections
Table 3 - Investment Projections
Table 4 - Financial Projections
Table 5 - Financial Rate of Return Calculation
10.   Model - Pig Fattening Unit - 900 pigs
Table 1 - Herd Projections
Table 2 - Sales and Operating Expenses Projections
Table 3 - Investment Projections
Table 4 - Financial Projections
Table 5 - Financial Rate of Return Calculation
11.   Phasing of Investment Program



9                                             - 3-
12.   Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements
4             13.   Project Director's Qualifications, Experience, Duties and
Responsibilities, and Project Organization Chart
14.   Projected Cash Flow of Participating Banks and of
Project Account in Central Bank
15.   Economic Rate of Return






IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises the first Bank-assisted project for livestock
development on small and medium farms in Ireland. The proposed loan of US$25
million would serve to mobilize an additional US$31 million within the country
to meet the total cost of the Project -- approximately US$56 million. The
Project would finance the development of about:
(a) 315 beef breeding farms;
(b) 1,085 beef rearing/fattening farms;
(c) 1,855 dairy/beef farms;
(d) 210 pig breeding units; and
(e) 55 pig fattening units to produce an estimated increase in
annual output of 14,000 tons of beef and 7,500 tons of
*                       pig meat.
ii.       The agricultural sector employs 25% of the labor force, generates
more than 20% of national income, and accounts for over 40% of export earn-
ings. Livestock, particularly beef cattle, contributes over 70% of agri-
cultural exports. As a result of becoming a member of the EEC in January
1973, Ireland now has improved marketing opportunities for its livestock in-
dustry, especially in view of the comparative natural advantage it enjoys
over other EEC countries in pastoral livestock production. However, many
livestock operations, especially in the less developed western regions, suffer
from being too small to be viable and from the lack of modernization invest-
ments. Government has begun efforts to restructure the smaller operations
by providing investment incentives and encouraging more suitable land leasing
arrangements. Thus, the proposed Project, which concentrates on viable and
potentially viable small- and medium-scale operations, is important to the
development of the country's overall economy and to Government's efforts to
improve social and economic conditions in the rural sector.
iii.      Ireland has high standards of research and substantial knowledge
of temperate livestock production, but much of this knowledge is not wide-
spread, particularly among the smaller farmers. A further impediment to
increasing production is the Irish farmers' traditional reluctance to borrow
and the failure of the commercial banking sector to make its resources avail-
able for long-term investments in agriculture.  The Project would therefore



- ii -
provide both technical advice, by the participating banks (including the
Agricultural Credit Corporation -- ACC) and officers of the Farm Advisory
Service, as well as suitable long- and short-term credit.
iv.       On-farm investment and incremental working capital items would
be obtained by individual sub-borrowers through normal commercial channels.
Major international companies are actively represented in Ireland with a
widely established network of service and repair facilities.
v.        A Project Director and supporting staff, located in ACC, would
be responsible for organizing and guiding the technical services as well as
for determining the eligibility of sub-loans for refinancing under the Project.
The plans themselves would be prepared by qualified and experienced officers
of the Farm Advisory Service or of participating banks. Plan appraisal and
financial risks would be the responsibility of the participating banks.
vi.       ACC as Borrower, with Government as Guarantor, would channel
the Bank loan through a Project Account opened on ACC's behalf in the Central
Bank of Ireland. Funds from this Project Account would be used to refinance
eligible loans made by participating banks to sub-borrowers. Sub-borrowers
would contribute about 20% of total investment requirements, Government 12%,
participating banks 23%, and the Bank 45%. Proceeds of the Bank loan would
be channelled to farmers submitting an acceptable development plan and whose
present livestock operati.ons provide a per capita income substantially less
than the per capita GNP. The minimum interest rate to sub-borrowers on
investment loans would be 9-3/4%.
vii.      The estimated financial rates of return to the beneficiaries' in-
cremental investments would range from 13% to 32%.  The rate of return to
the economy is estimated at about 20%.  The Project is expected, on average,
to double physical production on participants' farms and to provide at least
US$25 million yearly in additional exports at full development.
viii.     The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$25 million, for a
term of 14 years, including a grace period of five years. ACC would be the
Borrower and Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.



9                                         IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Ireland has requested a Bank loan to help finance
a livestock development project that would assist in mobilizing the substantial
capital inputs needed to restructure small- and medium-scale livestock opera-
tions. This restructuring is now more feasible and important because of the
increased opportunities available to Ireland as a result of joining the European
Economic Community (EEC) on January 1, 1973. The Project would provide for
on-farm developmient of about 3,500 smaller-scale farms throughout the Republic
of Ireland, including beef breeding farms, beef rearing and fattening farms,
dairy-beef farms, pig breeding units, and pig fattening units. Technical
services would be provided by the participating banks as well as the Farm
Advisory Service. The proposed loan would be the first for agricultural
development in Ireland.
1.02      The Project was prepared by the Ministry of Finance in cooperation
with the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries, the Agricultural Research
Institute and the Agricultural Credit Corporation (ACC), with IBRD missions,
including the late Dr. C. P. McNeekan, providing guidance in the course of
three brief visits.  As presented to the Bank, the Project proposed that all
long-terr financing be channelea through ACC and that short-term require-
-ents be provided by the private banks, presently lending in competition with
ACC. Since no mechanism was suggested, however, for ensuring that this
would be done, modifications were made, in agreement with Government, which
included the private banks as well as ACC as channels for long-term credit
and placed responsibility for providing the necessary short-term requirements
on each lending agency participating in the Project.
1.03      This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission, composed
of Messrs. J. Gerring, R. Hanan, and T. Tsui (Bank) and R. Bailey and C.
Percival (Consultants), which visited Ireland in April/May 1972. All mission
members as well as Messrs. J. Cerych and M. Raczynski (Bank) contributed to
its preparation.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Ireland comes under the influence of the warm waters of the North
Atlantic Drift and so enjoys a temperate maritime climate. Its rainfall
is well distributed, with a range of 35 in (875 mm) in the east to 60 in
.       (1,500 mm) in the west.  Relatively low summer temperatures and mild



-2-
winters, coupled with an almost complete absence of droughts, create a
close-to-ideal environment for pastoral farming.
2.02      Ireland's population, about 2.97 million, has been growing since
the mid-1960's at about 0.6% a year, after a net loss of 0.5% a year in the
1950's. Gross National Product (GNP) rose by 4% annually in the 1960's, but
by only 2.7% in 1970, an estimated 3.0% in 1971 and an estimated 2.9% in 1972.
GNP per capita at 1970 market prices in 1971 was US$1,390. The average annual
rate of inflation between 1965 and 1969 was around 4.5%, while in 1970 and
1971 it ranged between 8% and 9%.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.03      The agricultural sector (Annex 1) employs about one-quarter of the
country's labor force, generates about one-fifth of the national income,
and contributes 40% of all export earnings. About 50% of total agricultural
output is exported. Of the total land area of 17 million acres, some 12 mil-
lion are used for agricultural purooses, with over one million acres under
tillage. The principal crops grown (in thousands of acres) are barley (530),
wheat (230), oats (170), and a variety of root crops (330), of which potatoes
(140) is the most important. The remaining 11 million acres are under grass.
2.04      The general pattern of Irish agriculture is mixed farming, with
livestock operations predominating. Dairy farming is concentrated largely
in -he sa'ilt>, and milk for manufacturing is produced on a highly seasonal
basis. Over 80% of cows calve between January and March, thereby equating
the natural cycle of grass growth and feel requirements.  Many dairy
farmers also keep pigs and cultivate small areas for cropping.
2.05      Beef production, particularly fattening, is important in the east
and midland regions and large numbers of store cattle are moved there from
other parts of the country. In the northern and western regions, mixed farm-
ing predominates, farms tend to be small, and many farmers supplement their
incomes with non-farming activities. Sheep farming is widely practiced in the
western regions.
2.06      Total cattle now exceed 6 million, of which 1.8 million are breed-
ing cows. Approximately two-thirds of the cows produce milk for the manufac-
turing and liquid trade, and dairy/beef herds are the principal source of
calves for beef production. Straight beef breeding herds are, for the most
part, located on smaller farms in the west and northwest.
2.07      Total pig numbers have increased each year since 1966 and stood
at 1.3 million in 1971. A change is taking place in the pattern of pig
production, with small-scale sideline pig farming giving way to an increased
tendency towards larger and more specialized production units (para 2.30).
2.08      The country is free from all major epizootic diseases.  A campaign
to eradicate bovine tuberculosis was commenced in 1954 and completed in 1965,



-3-
although check testing of all herds has continued.  A full-scale brucellosis
eradication program, initiated in 1966 in the northwestern part of the
country, is still underway.
C. Irish Agriculture and the EEC
2.09      Ireland became a member of the EEC on January 1, 1973, and partici-
pation in the Common Agricultural Policy ensures that Irish farm produce will
enjoy unrestricted access to any part of the enlarged Community. Benefits
to Irish agriculture will likely be realized through the higher farm prices
of the Community and the resulting increased farm incomes and foreign ex-
change. Further advantages will come through the Community's programs for
structural reform in the sector.
2.10      Ireland is required to align its agricultural prices with the Com-
munity's prices in six successive steps over a transitional period of five
years. All price differences will be eliminated on December 31, 1977. It
was agreed during accession negotiations with the Community that imple-
mentation of the transitional measures should not result in any diminution
in the degree of freedom of trade existing between Ireland and the U. K. as
a result of the 1965 Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement (para 2.20). How-
ever, the deficiency payments for fat cattle in the U. K. (some of which are
passed back to Irish farmers for their export of live cattle to the U. K. for
fattening) are to be phased out as producer and consumer prices become aligned
to EEC prices during the transition period.
2.11      The Community's Directives on structural reform of the agricultural
sector include: aids for the modernization of farms; encouraging the cessa-
tion of farming activity by farmers too small to be viable; and the utilization
of land so released for the improvement of existing farms and the development
of social and economic information systems. The cost of national programs for
structural reform approved by the EEC will be partially reimbursed by the
Community's Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund (FEOGA). Although
Ireland's programs for structural reform have been generally consistent with
those proposed by the EEC, Government anticipates that a period of two to three
years may be required for final approval. However, once the programs are ap-
proved, considerable assistance is likely to be available especially for the
western region, which, as a depressed area, should qualify for increased
levels of support from FEOGA. Farmers who relinquish their land by either
leasing or selling to those benefiting from Community farm development aids
may qualify for annual pensions of at least US$600 (unmarried) or US$900
(married). The fact that any leasing arrangements would be for a minimum of
12 years is an important incentive for Government to devise more rational
leasing practices (paras 2.25 and 3.24).
2.12      The combination of increased farm prices and an assured market
for livestock and livestock products in the enlarged EEC behooves Government
to support programs aimed at stimulating increased investment in pastoral
livestock production, an area in which Ireland has a clearcut comparative
natural advantage over other EEC countries (paras 2.01 and 2.08).



-4-
D.  Agricultural Services                                          9
2.13      In each county, a Committee of Agriculture, consisting of members
of local government authorities, maintains an advisory service, the cost of
which is met jointly by the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries and local
gdvernments. The present strength of the Farm Advisory Service is around 600
officers, about 400 of whom are Instructors in Agriculture, all graduates in
agricultural science. The target of one advisor to 600 farms of 10 acres and
over has been reached in most counties. A Review Group of the Public Services
Organization has recommended a unified centrally controlled structure, but
this has met with considerable opposition from both farmers and advisory
officers at the county level. ACC and most private banks lending to farmers
also employ full-time agricultural officers.
Veterinary Services
2.14      About 220 full-time veterinary officers and 110 part-time officers
are employed by the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries for the control
of animal diseases of economic and public health importance. The Department
is also responsible for the licensing of meat-exporting premises and it su-
pervises enforcement of regulations controlling the processing and distribu-
tion of meat and milk for sale on the home market, administered by local gov-
ernment authorities. In addition, a countrywide veterinary service is pro-
vided by private practitioners.
Education
2.15      The Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries has general responsibi-
lity for agricultural education and training. This is presently provided
principally through residential agricultural colleges, schools of rural
domestic economy, horticultural colleges, and the faculties of Agriculture
in University College, Dublin, and Dairy Science in University College, Cork.
The current output of graduates in agriculture is considered adequate to meet
the future needs of the Farm Advisory Service as well as those of teaching,
research, commercial and other activities. Special training courses are
also provided by the Farm Advisory Service.
Research
2.16      Agricultural research is the responsibility of the Agricultural
Institute (An Foras Taluntais), which was established in 1958 as an autono-
mous national body. It is financed mainly by State grant and is governed by
a council. The work of the Institute is organized under six broad divisions
- Animal Production, Plant Sciences, Crop Husbandry, Horticulture, Forestry,
and Rural Economy -- and because of the importance of the livestock sub-
sector to the Irish economy, priority has always been given to animal pro-
duction work. A program of seminars, conferences, visits to research sta-
tions and such is carried out as a means of disseminating the results of
its work to both advisory officers and farmers.



-5-
E.  Agricultural Banking and Credit
2.17      Aside from the Central Bank, the banking system is made up of the
Associated Banks, the Non-Associated Banks, the Trustee and Post Office
Savings Banks and two Government-owned financing institutions -- the Indus-
trial Credit Corporation and ACC (see Annex 5). The Associated Banks, through
a series of mergers in 1965 and 1966, are organized as two domestically con-
trolled groups -- The Bank of Ireland Group and the Allied Irish Banks
Limited -- and have an extensive countrywide network of some 640 branches.
There are also hire-purchase finance companies, building societies and assur-
ance companies. In 1972, these banks and financial institutions had total
loans outstanding, exclusive of loans to Government, of about E 860 million,
some E 110 million, or 13% of the total, being to agriculture. The Associated
Banks held 70% of the agricultural total; ACC, 25%; and Industrial Banks
and hire-purchase finance companies, 5%. Agricultural lending by the other
institutions is negligible.
2.18      Loans to agriculture from other sources stood (1972) at an estimated
L 49 million (Irish Land Commission, E 28 million; merchants and cooperatives,
E 15 million; and County Councils, E 6 million), bringing the sector's total
liabilities to 1 159 million. With assets valued at some 1i 2,360 million, the
sector's debt/asset ratio is less than 7%, which is one of the lowest in the
world.
2.19      A term lending system, replacing the outstanding overdraft system,
was introduced by the Associated Banks in April 1972. Term loans are granted
for specific purposes and are repayable by negotiated amounts over fixed periods.
The interest rate applicable depends on the term of the loan and the category
of the borrower, as well as on the general economic conditions. The rates
applicable to agriculture in February 1973 varied between 9.25%, for over-
drafts and term loans of one year or less, and 11.25% for loans over seven years.
F. Marketing
2.20      Cattle are bought and sold through a system of auction marts, run
mainly by farmers' cooperatives. Animals are slaughtered for either domestic
consumption or export as beef or exported live for fattening in the U. K. The
live trade to the U. K. is attractive economically because of the eligibility
of such stock for the U. K. fat stock guarantee (deficiency) payments (para
2.10). Under the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement, the Irish are obliged
to use their best endeavors to supply 638,000 head of store cattle to the U. K.
each year.
2.21      While export of live and dead cattle is in the hands of private
traders, the principal exporter of pig meat is a State-sponsored organization,
the Pigs and Bacon Commission. No pigs are exported live from Ireland.
0



-6-
2.22      Total cattle output in 1971 was 1.54 million head, of which 240,000
were slaughtered for domestic consumption; 708,000 were slaughtered at meat
export slaughter premises to provide 143,000 tons of chilled or frozen beef
exports; 588,000 (both heifers and steers) were exported live to the U. K.
for fattening; and 6,600 were exported live in fat condition to the U. K. and
Continental Europe. Export receipts amounted to i 59.2 million (US$148 mil-
lion) and E 58.6 million (US$147 million) for the dead and live trades, re-
spectively. Since the livestock industry accounts for over 70% of all agri-
cultural exports, the proposed Project would be expected to make a major con-
tribution to the country's balance of payments.
C. Land Tenure and Farm Structure
2.23      The history of land tenure in Ireland is dominated by the struggle
of the Irish to gain ownership of their lands from landlords, many of whom
lived in the U.K. At the time of Independence in 1923, some 300,000 tenants
had already been given assistance in purchasing over 10 million acres for
e 100 million. The remaining 110,000 tenancies, comprising some 3 million
acres, were also bought, often under compulsion, for about E 20 million.
The transfer of these lands was carried out under the auspices of the Land
Commission.
2.24      Today the Land Commission, with a staff of 1,000 civil servants,
is responsible for relieving rural congestion and enlarging uneconomic farm
holdings through consolidation, acquisition, and redistribution of certain
lands that are considered inefficiently used. The Land Commission is
empowered to determine the person from whom the land is to be acquired;
the actual lands to be acquired; the price to be paid for such lands;
the persons to whom the land shall be allotted; and the price. The Com-
mission presently targets about 34,000 acres per year to be purchased and
reallocated to some 1,500 small farmers, most of its energies being con-
centrated in the western region where the problems of rural congestion and
small farms are greatest.
2.25      Due to the historical reluctance of the Irish to return to a land-
lord-tenant situation, land has been leased only under the "conacre" system.
This system permits an owner to rent out his land for 11 months of the year
and requires him to retain physical possession for the remaining month. In
1965, about 7% of all agricultural land was let under the conacre system.
The Land Commission recognizes, however, that long-term leasing would be a
viable means of enlarging small farms (para 3.24).
2.26      The decline of the farm population has been particularly slow in
Ireland, the annual rate averaging only 1% between 1951 and 1966. More
recently, however, the decline has accelerated to about 3% per year and is
expected to continue at that rate during the 1970's. A study by a Government
0



7
*        Review Committee in 1967 of a total of 200,000 farm holdings indicated 37%
were less than 30 acres; 51% between 30 acres and 100 acres; and 12% over
100 acres.
2.27      The principal obstacles to farm development in Ireland are:
(a) uneconomic size of farm holdings and fragmentation;
(b) poor soil and topographic conditions in some areas;
(c) insufficient coverage of technical advice;
(d) inadequate investment credit; and
(e) excessive numbers of old farmers who are determined to
remain on their land.
In the western region, 56% of farmers are over 50 years of age and more
than half have no prospective heirs.
H. Government Policies on Livestock Development
2.28      Government policy for the agricultural sector includes improving
agricultural structure; improving the economic and competitive capacity of
farms; and maintaining a reasonable relationship between farm incomes and
those in other occupations. A Small Farm (Incentive Bonus) Scheme, set up
in 1968, successfully attracted 12,000 participants by the end of 1971.
Under the Scheme, farmers with 50 acres or less and a gross margin 1/ from
the farm of under E 1,000 (US$2,500) were eligible to participate in a four-
to-six-year farm development plan for which they received a I 500 bonus
in addition to normal Government grants for investment.
2.29      A major objective of Ireland's Second Program for Economic Expan-
sion 1963/67 was to increase cow numbers, which had long remained static at
about 1.3 million, to 1.7 million by 1968. The target was reached in 1970.
During the Third Program for Economic and Social Development, 1968/72, Gov-
ernment policy has been to encourage a continued expansion of cattle produc-
tion and an improvement in quality, with emphasis on rationalization and
restructuring of the industry so that it can achieve a significant increase
in volume and variety of exports. The new conditions and opportunities ex-
pected with entry to the EEC (para 2.09) make such changes particularly
1/   Gross margin:  gross income less variable operating expenses; i.e., the
amount available to meet overhead costs and provide the family farm
income.



8-
pertinent at this time. Government policies towards pigs are broadly the
same as for cattle, with investment in large-scale specialized pig-fattening
units being encouraged in order to increase supplies of bacon and pork for
export.
2.30      As part of its Third Economic and Social Development Program,
Government instituted long-term development aids to agriculture in the form
of grants towards infrastructure investments (Annex 2). These grants are
part of Government policy aimed at encouraging particular investments to
promote a more rational combination of resources and a higher level of effi-
ciency. The grants are made selectively with an orientation towards promot-
ing investments to expand small-scale farming operations and added emphasis
is given to supporting farming activities in the less developed western
regions. Made to partially reimburse investment costs, the grants help meet
the costs of land reclamation and drainage, water supplies and farm buildings.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Features
3.01      The Project is designed to:
(a) assist Ireland to exploit more fully its comparative
advantage in the production of low-costTheef to meet a
rapidly expanding export market; and
(b) help implement agricultural policies designed to improve
the structure of farming and raise the income of the
participating farmers.
To these ends the Project would assist the owners of small- and medium-sized
farmers needing finance and technical guidance to raise their incomes to
levels comparable with those in other sectors of the economy. Achieving
these objectives would play an important role in developing the country's
economy, as well as improving the quality of life for those in the rural
sector.
3.02      The Project would service on-farm investments throughout the
country, which is comparatively small, has good communications, and is well
provided with commercial farm-support services in most districts. A wide
diversity of livestock production systems has developed that are often
interdependent, in that calves born in the south may be reared in the
west and fattened in the east.



9
3.03      The Project would:
(a) expand the calf crop, particularly that portion destined for
beef production;
(b) raise the present level of productive efficiency, particularly
by reducing the age of slaughter;
(c) encourage the establishment of pig breeding units, especially
where they can serve to raise the income of and provide fuller
employment for the small farmer; and
(d) establish pig fattening operations to provide an outlet
for the increasing flow of store pigs expected from the
small breeding units.
B. Detailed Features
3.04      The Project would focus on three main systems of cattle production:
(a) Beef cattle breeding and rearing. It is anticipated that
approximately 315 farmers in this category would participate
in the Project;
(b)  Combined rearing and fattening based on the purchase of
surplus calves from specialist milk producers. Some 1,085
farmers are expected to participate;
(c) Dairy/beef producers, where the size of the dairy herd is
limited by the labor supply and yet surplus carrying
capacity is available for rearing and fattening surplus
calves, or where the property is fragmented in such a
way that it is more convenient to milk cows on one part
and fatten on the other. In order to avoid encouraging
excessive milk production, no finance would be provided
under the Project for any dairy/beef enterprise where,
after development, less than 50% of the gross income from
the cattle operation would arise from the sale of surplus
cattle. 1/ An assurance on this point was obtained from
Government during negotiations. It is expected that about
1,855 such farmers would participate.
3.05      Farm development plans would emphasize investments in pasture
improvement, modern low-cost farm installations and extra stock. In
addition, working capital would be provided where necessary to finance
1/   This is consistent with EEC Directives on Farm Modernization, issued
in Brussels, April 17, 1972.



- 10 -
incremental operating expenses, particularly fertilizers for pastures,
silage-making and supplementary feed.
3.06      The present productivity of Irish farms could be increased con-
siderably by improving farm layout and introducing a more rational system
of pasture management. On many farms the divisions between fields bear no
relation to the needs of modern grassland farming. These divisions consist
of wide mounds of earth and stones, on top of which a hedge may be grown. In
somre areas these structures take up from 5 to 10% or more of the farm area,
their maintenance is costly and their location often results in misshaped and
odd-sized fields which make it impossible to mechanize such farm operations
as silage-making, the conservation of hay or even top-dressing. The removal
of these ancient structures is estimated to cost about b 40 per acre.
3.07      Livestock production from grassland has long been the traditional
system of farming in Ireland. In consequence, a proportion of the old pas-
tures has become sod-bound and some fields need levelling to make them suit-
able for mechanized operations. Provision has therefore been made for a mod-
erate investment, EL 6 per acre, in pasture renovation. This would include,
after heavy grazing and sufficient cultivation of the ground surface to form
a reasonable seed bed, paddock levelling, an initial heavy dressing of lime
and in some cases a light oversowing with improved pasture seeds.
3.08      Inadequate drainage is a real problem in some areas of the country,
seriously limiting pasture growth and resulting in severe damage to both pas-
tures and soil structure through poaching by stock. Investigations have shown
that in some counties around 70% of the variation in carrying capacity between
farms is associated with differences in soil drainage. Provision has there-
fore been made, under the general heading of pasture improvement, for on-farm
investments in drainage, the estimated cost approximating b 70 per acre. An
additional allowance has been made for pasture renewal where this will be nec-
essary because of invasion with rushes and other undesirable weeds associated
with poor drainage.
3.09      Farm installations allowed for in the cattle investment program
include additional fencing and water reticulation required for further
subdivision, as well as buildings and silos to improve the level of feeding
during the winter months. Significant and important developments have oc-
curred in recent years in the process of silage-making. The use of formic
acid as a silage additive has materially reduced losses in feed nutrients and
increased palatability and intake to the point where liveweight gains of 1-1.5
lb per head per day are being achieved on grass silage alone. Provision has
been made in the estimates for investments in simply constructed silos for
storing the silage and low-cost unroofed cubicles or stalls where the cattle
would be held and fed during the winter months.
3.10      Increased competition will be faced by the Irish pig industry in the
enlarged EEC, due mainly to likely unfavorable changes in pig/feed price rela-
tionships (Annex 3). Present levels of genetic merit, feed conversion effici-
ency, sow productivity, and carcass quality are on a par with most other Euro-
pean countries, and the climate represents a real advantage in reduced housing



- 11 -
9              costs.  However, the structure of the pig industry at both the production and
processing levels is a cause for concern and steps are being taken to ration-
alize the number and size of bacon factories (Annex 4). At the production
level, the Project would support the present trend towards larger production
units, which is considered essential if the overall efficiency of production
is to be raised. At present, about 70% of all pigs reared are sold as weaners
to other producers for fattening. Under the Project, finance would be provided
to enlarge existing pig breeding herds.   This would raise incomes and provide
fuller employment opportunities. Allowance has been made to finance some 210
such pig breeding units. To provide an assured outlet for the weaners produced,
pig fattening units would also be established where needed. Thus, for the pig
production component of the Project, finance has been provided for buildings
and equipment to enable participating farmers to expand their operations,
as well as for the purchase of the extra stock required. Incremental working
capital would be available for financing the start-up feed costs. (See Annexes
6-10 for details of Project farm development models.)
C. Cost Estimates
3.11      The total cost of the Project is estimated at approximately US$56
million, of which about US$23 million, or 42%, represents the foreign exchange
requirements. Components of Project cost are shown in the following table
and include the major categories of fixed investments for on-farm development
and incremental working capital requirements.  Total Project costs exceed
those given in the table by US$0.4 million, which is required to finance the
non-cash item of stock retention. With the exception of stock purchases
and feed concentrates, all estimates -- for both investment items and operat-
ing expenses -- include a price contingency of 5% per year over the first six
years of the Project to cover probable price rises during the period of
transition to full EEC participation. For the excepted items, the expected
prices during the transitional period were used, the annual increases being
7% and 8% for concentrates and stock, respectively.



- 12 -
Total Project Costs
Total    Foreign
E Million            US$ Million      Project   Exchange
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total   Cost          Cost
Components                                                        (%)       (M)
Fixed Investments
Pasture
Improvement       1.6    3.0    4.6    4.0    7.5   11.5    21            65
Fencing            0.1    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.5    0.8         1        62
Water Facilities  0.4    0.3    0.7    1.0    0.8    1.8          3        50
Farm Buildings    4.2    1.6    5.8   10.5    4.0   14.5    26             28
Farm Equipment    0.2    0.6    0.8    0.5    1.5    2.0         4         80
Stock              6.5    0.8    7.3   12.4    5.8   18.2    33            31
Sub-total       13.0    6.6   19.6   28.7   20.1   48.8    88            41
Incremental
Working Capital
Concentrate Feed  0.1    0.3    0.4    0.3    0.7    1.0         2         70
Operating
Expenses         1.3    1.0    2.3    3.3    2.5    5.8    10            43
Sub-total        1.4    1.3    2.7    3.6    3.2    6.8    12            47
__             _               -              -      =
Total Project
Cost         14.4    7.9   22.3   32.3   23.3   55.6   100            42
===                          =
D. Financing
3.12      Financing of the Project would be shared in the following amounts
and proportions:



- 13 -
Participating
Beneficiaries Government        Banks        IBRD     Total
Amount     %  Amount  %   Amount       %  Amount % Amount  %
-------------------- US$ Millions ------------------------
Enterprises
Beef Breeding               1.6     20    0.8  10    1.8        23   3.6  47  7.8  100
Beef Rearing/Fattening    3.6       20    2.1  12    4.1        23   8.0  45 17.8  100
Dairy/Beef                 4.9      20    2.6  11    5.7        23  11.2  46 24.4  100
Pig Breeding               0.7      20    0.6  19    0.7        21   1.3  40  3.3  100
Pig Fattening              0.5      20    0.3  13    0.6        26   0.9  41  2.3  100
Project Cost        11.3      20    6.4  12   12.9        23  25.0  45 55.6  100
Total Project costs of US$56 million would be distributed approximately as
follows: beef breeding, 14%; beef rearing/fattening, 32%; dairy/beef, 44%;
pig breeding, 6%; and pig fattening, 4%. For each enterprise, farmers would
contribute,on average, about 20% of investment requirements including, where
applicable, incremental working capital and retained breeding heifers that,
in the absence of the Project, would have been sold. The Bank loan of US$25
million would be equivalent to the foreign exchange component plus about US$1.7
million for local costs. The balance of investment financing would be shared
by participating banks (23%) and by Government (12%) in the form of grants.
The provision of these grants, which help meet the costs of land reclamation
and drainage, and farm buildings, is standard Government policy (para 2.30).
3 13      The Bank loan would be for 14 years, including five years of grace.
This term is based on a commitment period of up to three years for sub-loans,
and repayment periods of up to 12 years, with up to four years of grace.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that ACC, through its Project
Account in the Central Bank, would make part of the proceeds of the loan
available to participating banks for a term of 13 years including a five-year
grace period, and that Government would assume the foreign exchange risk.
E. Procurement
3.14      The goods and services required for on-farm development under the
Project would be purchased by the individual sub-borrowers through normal
commercial channels. Many of the items, including farm machinery, are im-
ported in finished condition and major international companies are actively
represented. These companies are highly competitive and have well established
networks of service and repair facilities in Ireland. For this reason, to-
gether with the relatively small size of individual purchases and the fact
that disbursements would be spread over four years, bulk procurement of any
Project items would be inappropriate. Under the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area
Agreement, all investment items available from the U.K. face zero or negli-
gible tariffs.
.



- 14 -
3.15      Some items, including animal feedstuffs and grass seeds, are                         0
imported free of tariff but require an import license issued by the Minister
for Agriculture and Fisheries. Government assured the Bank during negotiations
that any such import licenses affecting Project items would be granted promptly.
F. Disbursements
3.16      Disbursements to sub-borrowers would be related to the phasing
of their investments. They would be spread over three years for beef
breeding enterprises, two years for beef rearing/fattening and dairy/beef
enterprises, and one year for the pig enterprises. Since loan commitments
would be over two years for beef breeding enterprises and over three years
for the other enterprises, the Project loan disbursement period is expected
to cover four years (Annex 11).
3.17      The Bank would reimburse 66% of loan disbursements made by ACC
and the participating banks to project beneficiaries. Disbursement would be
made against a certificate of expenditure, the documentation for which is
not submitted for review, but is retained by the Borrower and available for
inspection by the Bank during the course of project supervision (see Annex 12).
G. Organization and Management
3218      Responsibility for administering the Project would rest with
ACC which would also be the Borrower. The Central Bank would establish a
Project Account through which the loan would be channeled and all eligible
sub'loans refinanced. During negotiations assurances were obtained on this
arrangement.
3.19      At the time of appraisal, the Bank of Ireland Group and the Allied
Irish Banks had, respectively, five and four agricultural officers (AO's)
and each institution intended to hire at least five additional AO's by the
end of 1972. ACC presently has 17 AO's under the supervision of a Chief
Agricultural Officer. The latter and two of the AO's are located at the
Dublin headquarters, while the rest are stationed in 13 provincial area
offices throughout the country.
3.20      To administer the Project, ACC would, as a condition of loan effec-
tiveness, nominate a Project Director, whose qualifications and experience
would be acceptable to the Bank (Annex 13). He would be appointed by ACC in
agreement with the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and Fisheries, would
have the authority to approve farm development plans submitted for refinanc-
ing under the Project, and would ensure that all on-going sub-projects were
properly supervised. Assurances on the duties and responsibilities of the
Project Director, as detailed in Annex 13, were agreed during negotiations.
0



- 15 -
O       3.21       Qualified and experienced officers of the Farm Advisory Service
would assist farmers in the preparation of farm development plans, which
would then be appraised by qualified and experienced AO's employed by the
participating banks. The development plans would be presented to the Project
Director for approval. AO's of the participating banks would also supervise
the execution of approved investment plans and provide technical and financial
guidance to sub-borrowers during the farm development period in a manner
satisfactory to the Project Director. Financial risks associated with sub-
projects would be borne by the participating banks.
.22       While the Project Director would be employed by ACC and ultimately
would be responsible to its Chairman, he would, from time to time, seek the
advice of an Advisory Committee on matters relating to the Project. This
Advisory Committee would be appointed prior to the loan becoming effective
and would consist of ten members -- one representative each from the Ministry
of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, the Central Bank, ACC
and the Agricultural Advisory Service, and two representatives each from the
commercial banks and the farmers' organizations, and the Project Director
as Chairman. The Advisory Committee would coordinate the activities and
functions of the agencies concerned with the Project, and assist the Project
Director in the formulation of policies and procedures for carrying out the
Project. Assurances on the composition of the Advisory Committee were obtained
during negotiations.
H.  Lendin_ Policies and Procedures
3.23      During negotiations, it was agreed that disbursements from the Bank
loan could not exceed US$5 million nor take place after December 31, 1973 un-
less ACC had entered into an acceptable agreement with at least one commercial
bank to participate in the project. The participating banks would make sub-
loans directly to Project participants on the basis of approved farm develop-
ment plans (paras 3.20 and 3.21). During negotiations, assurances were ob-
tained from Government that the participating banks would use a standard
sub-loan agreement acceptable to the Bank. Prior to the preparation of any
farm development plan, the officer of the Farm Advisory Service responsible
would refer the potential applicant to the bank of the farmer's choice for
an assessment of his creditworthiness.
3.24      Government recognizes that there are cases where a long-term lease
of adjacent land would elevate the technical, financial, and economic perfor-
mance of a sub-borrower to acceptable levels and has confirmed to the Bank
that it intends to promote suitable arrangements for the leasing of land as
part of the measures required to implement EEC Directives relating to the
structural reform of agriculture. During Project implementation, the Project
Director would encourage long-term leasing in the appropriate cases to the
extent possible under prevailing land tenure provisions.
3.25      To ensure that the Project would support the farmers with small- and
.       medium-sized operations, most in need of finance and technical guidance,



- 16 -
assurances were obtained during negotiations that participants would be                           9
required to meet certain criteria to become eligible for a loan. First, the
number of livestock units or pigs carried on the farm, prior to development,
must not exceed the following on each type of farming enterprise: 120 live-
stock units on beef breeding farms; 120 livestock units on beef rearing and
fattening farms; 70 livestock units on dairy/beef farms; 75 saws in pig breed-
ing operations and accommodation for 500 grower pigs in pig fattening opera-
tions. Under these criteria, it is estimated that most eligible project
participants would have a predevelopment per capita f$mily income substantially
less than Irish GNP per capita with the maximum averaging about 80%.  Second,
the Pro,ect Director must be satisfied that each applicant is a full-time
farmer, resident on his own farms and that not more than half his income is
obtained from sources other than the livestock farm to be developed under the
Project. Third, for applicants with very small operations, their farm devel-
opment plans, incorporating3 available land leasing opportunities, must be of
a level sufficient to ensure financial and technical viability. Thus, the
above criteria exclude applicants who: (a) are not bona fide farmers; and
(b) earn a per capita family income from their current livestock operations
which on average exceeds the 80% of Irish GNP per capita; and (c) are unable
to achieve a viable operation with their farm development plan.
3.26      All eligible claims on Bank funds would be refinanced from the
Project Account in the Central Bank at 7-1/4% for ACC, and at 7-3/4% for
all other participarIng banks. The additional 1/2% charged to the other
parti.ipating banks should be sufficient to meet the estimated cost to ACC
of operating the Project Unit (Annex 14).  A spread of 2% on the proceeds of                     0
the T'a-nk ln-.n is required by the participating banks for viable onlending to
fart'-    Thus the applicable interest rate for onlending the proceeds of the
loan would be 9-3/4%.  Since sublools under the project would be comprised of
proceeds of the Bank loan as well as resources of the participating banks,
sub-borrowers would be charged an interest rate based on the interest rate
applicable to the proceeds of the loan and the coTmmercial rate applicable to
agricultural loans at the time the subloans are approved. For example, the
relevant commercial rate in February 1973 was 11-1/4%; such a rate would re-
sult in a blended rate to sub-borrowers of 10-1/4%. In no case would sub-
borrowers pay less than a minimum interest rate of 9-3/4%. It is expected
that sub-borrowers would require 10 to 12 years to repay their beef investment
loans and 8 to 10 years for pig investment loans, including two to four years
of grace in both cases. The actual term and grace period would be based on
the projected cash flows of the sub-projects being financed. All sub-loans
in excess of E 30,000 would be submitted to the Bank for prior approval.  The
interest rate payable on any short-term requirements would be dictated generally
by current economic conditions, but presently (February 1973) it is 9-1/4% for
loans of one year or less. Assurances on the above lending arrangements and
terms were obtained during negotiations.
I. Accounts and Audit
3.27      ACC would have its accounts and financial statements audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and would submit



- 17 -
certified copies to the Bank, together with the auditors' report, not later
than three months after the end of each fiscal year.
3.28      The Project Account, maintained by the Central Bank on behalf of
ACC (para 3.18), would be submitted to the Bank within three months after the
close of the bank's fiscal year. Separate project accounts would also be
maintained by participating banks and would, after audit by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, be submitted to the Bank within three
months after the close of their respective fiscal years. Assurances on the
timely submission of the above accounts and financial statements were ob-
tained during negotiations.
IV. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND MARKETING, AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Production
4.01      The major impact of the Project would be on cattle production, since
only 10% of total Project costs would go into expansion of pig meat production.
It is impossible to determine precisely the extent of the impact of the Proj-
ect alone because some of the revenues generated as a result of higher stock
prices in the EEC would have been invested without the Project and would have
caused some increases. It is estimated, however, that beef output would be
increased by at least 14,000 tons and pig meat increased by at least 7,500
tons by the sixth year, or at full project development. The export value of
this invesment production would be about US$25 million.
B. Markets And Marketing
4.02      Long-term projections from various sources indicate a substantial
global deficit in all types of meat, especially beef and veal. In January
1972, the FAO Committee on Commodity Problems, Intergovernmental Group on
Meat, projected that world demand will exceed production by almost 1.2 mil-
lion tons by 1980, based on 1970 prices. The FAO study projects that the
deficit of beef and veal in the enlarged EEC will be about 0.9 million tons
in 1980. The annual incremental production of beef and veal from the Project
- approximately 14,000 tons, or slightly more than 1% of the projected 1980
world deficit - will have an insignificant effect on the beef and veal market
prospects of present and future producers.
4.03      As a member of the EEC, Ireland has no difficulties in disposing
of its production of beef, bacon, and pork and will likely strengthen its
position in the U.K. market, particularly with exports of carcass beef. The
present difficulties of obtaining sufficient supplies are reflected in the
action taken by the EEC in May 1972 when it temporarily suspended its duties
on imports of live cattle and calves and fresh chilled meat from non-member



- 18 -
countries.  Later in the year the duties were partially reimposed and in March              9
1973 were half the normal rate, i.e. 10% on beef and 8% on live cattle. Sus-
pension of all or part of the duties may relieve the market in the short run
but it will have little permanent effect, considering the worldwide shortage
of beef.
4.04      The problem remains as to the future of the live trade versus dead
trade with the U.K. (Annex 4). Hitherto, the system of U.K. deficiency pay-
ments (para 2.10) made it economically attractive to ship good quality live
cattle to the U.K. for fattening, but these payments will be phased out over
the five-year transition to full EEC market regulations. On the basis of the
495,000 cattle slaughtered for export to the U.K. in chilled carcass form
in 1971, the penalty differential of lp - 2p per lb carcass weight meant re-
duced export receipts of 5% to 10%, or between E 3 million and E 6 million.
It therefore behooves Government to take the necessary measures to en-
courage an improved image and better all-round marketing of Irish carcass
beef in the U.K. and Continential Europe. Increased production, as a result
of the Project and the higher prices to producers for their stock sales,
should be exported in carcass or processed form.
C. Producer Benefits
4.05      Benefits to producers participating in the Project would be con-
siderable and the two principal inputs supplied by the Project, credit and
technical assistance, would be essential to achieve these results.  The fol-
lowing table provides a summary of producer benefits, derived from represent-
ative production models (Annexes 6-10) and comparing with and without the
project situations.
Beef    Beef/Rearing                   Pig        Pig
Investment Model          Breeding    Fattening   Dairy/Beef  Breeding  Fattening
Investment Cost              8,000        3,885        4,670       4,120      16,514
Net Income without
Development                 2,000        2,153        2,420         315       1,655
Net Income at Full
Development                 4,631        3,603        5,417       2,135       5,040
Financial Rate of Return
on Incremental Investment  16%            13%         24%         32%          29%
4.06      The financial rates of return to each enterprise would be sufficient-
ly high to make the proposed investments attractive. The highest rates of re-
turn are expected to occur for investments in dairy/beef enterprises, which re-
present 53% of all beneficiaries and 44% of total Project costs. Investments



- 19 -
*         in pig breeding and pig fattening exhibit rates of return of 32% and 29%,
respectively, and would be distributed over 8% of the beneficiaries in the
ratio of approximately four pig breeding units to one pig fattening unit.
For all enterprises, the time required to reach full development would be
six years.
4.07      Total net income from the incremental Project production would be
approximately US$25 million per annum after nine years. As there is no taxa-
tion of agricultural income in Ireland, it is expected that all this incre-
mental income would be retained by sub-borrowers. Some of the incremental
income from the Project is likely to be invested for further development of
participating farms. It is also expected that this income will contribute
to increased consumption of domestic items and higher standards of living
for project participants.
V. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      In view of the protective nature of the EEC agricultural markets
and the importance of beef in international trade, it has been necessary to
demonstrate that Irish beef production is economically sound on the basis of
projected beef prices in the world market.
5.02      The annual average increase in the EEC orientation price for beef
O      (Annex 3, para 10) was 5% between 1966/67 and 1971/72.  Between 1971/72 and
1972/73, however, this price was raised by 12.5% (E 15.20 - E 17.10 per cwt
liveweight), reflecting the shortage of beef in the EEC as well as inter-
nationally. A decision was made in April 1973 to increase the orientation
price by 10.5% for 1973/74. The EEC orientation price has been projected
to increase by 5% annually 1972/73 through 1978/79. The projected Irish
orientation prices are based on equalling the projected EEC orientation prices
by the end of 1977 in accordance with Community policy (Annex 3, Appendix 2).
This in effect will signify an increase in prices for Irish beef of more than
8% per annum. The projected Irish orientation price series was used for the
financial analysis of the investment models being supported by the Project.
5.03      For the Project economic analysis, projected world market prices
are more appropriate. However, given the recent price increases in major
world markets for beef and the increasing locations and types of international
demand and supply, it is difficult to estimate or predict reliable world
market prices for beef. Between June 1971 and June 1972 Irish fat cattle
prices increased by almost 21% and by January 1973 they had increased by a
further 35% to around E 19.25 per cwt liveweight. Since prices in Ireland
and the U.K. are well above the present established orientation price for
beef in these countries (E 14.20 per cwt) and no elements of protection are
in force, such prices must be considered as reflecting international market
conditions.



- 20 -
5.04      The economic rate of return calculations were based on real in-                     9
creases in world cattle prices between 1.1% and 3.25% p.a. 1/ It is expected
that the latter index figure is the more likely and on this basis, the
economic rate of return of the project would be about 20% (Annex 15). If
investment costs were 10% higher than evaluated, the economic rate of return
would fall to 17% and if operating expenses would increase by 5% the rate
of return would fall to 16%. Reduction of the price increase to 1.1% p.a.
would reduce the rate of return to 18%.
5.05      The proposed Bank loan of US$25 million would serve to mobilize
an additional US$31 million of domestic funds to meet the total cost of
the Project of US$56 million. Since ACC and the commercial banks obtain a
considerable proportion of their funds through farmers' deposit accounts,
the Project would also serve to channel rural savings back into agricultural
investment.
5.06      To the extent possible, the Project would encourage the enlargement
of small currently non-economic farms through long-term leasing of adjacent
land, which would enable younger farmers to participate in the Project with-
out the constraint of insufficient capital for purchase of additional land.
The Project would be unlikely to create additional jobs in the rural sector,
but it would help alleviate underemployment and raise family incomes of those
who currently earn less than the national average. Considering the oppor-
tunities for Ireland's agriculture within the EEC and the expected returns
to capital invested, the Project is both socially and economically sound.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, the principal assurances obtained from Govern-
ment and ACC were that:
(a)  sub-borrower eligibility criteria would include a maximum
size of predevelopment livestock operations to ensure that
Bank funds are channelled to small- and medium-scale enterprises
(para 3.25);
(b)  all sub-loans in excess of E 30,000 would be submitted to
the Bank for prior approval (para 3.26); and
(c)  sub-borrowers would be allowed 8 to 12 years to repay their
investment loans, including 2 to 4 years of grace and pay
a minimum interest rate of 9-3/4% (para 3.26).
1/   Under free trade conditions the historic annual growth rate in producer
prices for Irish fat cattle (1945/50 to 1961/66) was 3.65%.



- 21 -
6.02      It was also agreed during negotiations that disbursements from the
Bank loan could not exceed US$5 million nor take place after December 31, 1973
unless ACC had entered into an acceptable agreement with at least one commer-
cial bank to participate in the project (para 3.23).
6.03      The loan would have the following conditions of effectiveness:
(a)  ACC would appoint a Project Director, in agreement with the
Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and Fisheries, whose
qualifications and experience were acceptable to the Bank
(para 3.20);
(b) Government would appoint an Advisory Committee whose com-
position would be as defined in para 3.22.
6.04      The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$25 million for 14
years, including a grace period of five years.
May 25, 1973






ANNEX 1
Page 1
IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Livestock Industry
A. Agricultural Background
Geography & Climate
1.        The island of Ireland is situated in the northwest of the continent
of Europe between Latitudes 51" 50" and 55* 50" N, and Longitudes 5* 50"
and 100 50" W. Since 1922, the Government of the Republic of Ireland has
had jurisdiction over 26 of the 32 counties embracing an area of 27,136 sq mi
(70,282 km2). (The six northeastern counties remain an integral part of
the United Kingdom.)
2.        Ireland comes under the influence of the warm drifting waters
of the Gulf Stream and so enjoys a temperate maritime climate. Its rainfall,
ranging from 35 in. (875 mm) in the east to 60 in. (1,500 mm) in the
west, is well distributed.  Relatively low summer temperatures and mild
winters coupled with an almost complete absence of droughts create a close
to ideal environment for pastoral farming.
Population and Land Use
3.        In 1971, the population numbered 2.97 million.  A net loss of
0.5% in the 1950's has changed to a growth of 0.6% per year since the mid
1960's due to some extent to an improved performance of the Irish economy
in the non-agricultural sector which led to , drop in the rate of emigration.
The numbers employed in agriculture in 1972 approximate 25% of the total
labor force. The numbers have been declining steadily from 382,000 in 1960
to around 284,000 in 1970, about 3% per year.
4.        The country has a land area of 17 million acres, of which 11.8
million are used for agricultural purposes. There are 1.3 million acres
under tillage. The principal crops grown, in thousands of acres, are barley
(530), wheat (230), oats (170), and a variety of root crops (330) of which
potatoes (140) is the most important. The remaining 10.5 million acres are
under grass. The 5.1 million acres not used for agricultural purposes
include woods and plantations, mountains and rough mountain grazing, bog,
marshes, water, towns, roads, etc.
0



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Structure and Size of Farms
5.        For the most part Irish agriculture is based on owner-occupied
farms (Annex 2). The farm-size classification of farm holdings above 5 acres
is as follows:
Size of Farm                                 Number of Farms
5 - 15 acres (2 - 6 ha)                         28,000
15 -  30 acres (6 - 12 ha)                       47,000
30 -  50 acres (12 - 20 ha)                      53,000
60 - 100 acres (20 - 40 ha)                      48,000
More than 100 acres (over 40 ha)                 24,000
Total                                           200,000
Since the early 1930's there has been a steady but persistent decrease in
the number of smaller holdings accompanied by an increase in the number of
medium sized farms. Despite this trend, the small size of at least one-
third of the farms constitutes a major economic and social problem. Further-
more, it is not unusual for farms to be fragmented into two or more
separate blocks which further complicates the situation.
Agriculture in the Economy
6.        The agricultural sector occupies a central role in the economy,
generating about one-fifth of the country's national income, employing
one-quarter of the labor force, and accounting for over 40% of export
earnings. About 50% of Ireland's agricultural eutput is exported.
B. The Livestock Sub-sector
7.        Livestock production (especially cattle) is by far the most
important branch of production, accounting for over three-fourths of gross
agricultural output. In 1971, for example, the gross value of agricultural
output amounted to 1 370 million of which cattle contributed 36%, dairy
products 24% and pigs 12%; a total of 72%. These proportions have changed
little over the past decade.
8.        In terms of exports, cattle production is of even greater
relative importance. In 1970, agricultural exports totalled E 180 million
of which:
Beef exports contributed                E 51 million or 28%
Live cattle exports contributed            46   "      " 26
Dairy products exports controbuted         26   "1 " 4
Pig meat exports contributed               15   "     "   8



ANNEX 1
Page 3
While the value of live cattle exports hare remained relatively stable for
a number of years, beef exports have increased in value from b 21.3
million in 1966 to i 59 in 1971.
Livestock Production Sys_tems
9.        Mixed farming, in which a variety of livestock operations predominate,
is the general pattern found in Irish agriculture, Tiough there is no clear
cut stratification in land use, there are distinct regional differences in
livestock production systems. In the south dairy farming predominates. Milk
is produced on a highly seasonal basis, such that over 80% of cows calve in
the months of January, February or March. This gives the best fit between
grass growth and feed requirements. Milk is produced for sale to cooperative
creameries for manufacture into butter, cheese and other products, 30% of
which is exported. Overall, the Irish dairy industry is made up of a large
number of small herds. Ir. 1966, there were 110,500 creamery milk suppliers
with an average herd size of 8.1 cows producing 455 gallons (2,068 litres)
per cow, and 3,685 gallons per farm. This overall picture masks the situation
in the more traditional dairying areas of the South where major advances are
taking place in farm management accompanied by increases ir, herd size. In
these areas many farmers also Weep pigs as well as cultivating small areas
for cropping.
10,       In the east and midland region, the farms are generally larger
than in the rest of the country.  In this area, beef production, particularly
fattening, is especially important and considerable numbers of store cattle
are moved tliere from other parts of the country. The grov'ing of cash crops
is also a common practice.
11.       Farms in the north and west region are smaller than average,
mixed farming operations are common and many farmers suppiement their income
by other activities. Sheep farming is quite widely practized in the
western region.
C. Cattle Production
12.       Up until the early 1960's the number of breeding cows in the
national herd remained remarkably stable for more than a century at around
1.2 to 1.3 million head. In contrast, during the last decade the cow
population has increased at an average annual rate of about 3.6%, and
total cattle now exceed 6 million for the first time.
13.       Table I shows the changes which have taken place since 1960 in
cattle numbers, herd structure, cattle output and output as a percentage of
the national herd. Approximately two-thirds of the cows in the country
produce milk for the manufacturing and liquid trade, so that dairy/beef
herds are, and will continue to be for some time, the main source of calves
for beef productiou. The fact that these are produced as a by-product of
.      the dairy industry makes them available at a much lower cost than calves from



ANLrEX 1
Page 4
the single purpose beef breeding herds.  To help reduce this cost, breeding
herds kept primarily for beef production are for the most part located on
hill country and on land considered unsuitable or marginal for dairying
or fattening.
Breed Composition
14.       The 1960's saw the start of equally dramatic changes in the
breed composition of the national herd. Traditionally it had been the
practice to topcross the heterogenous cattle of the country with English
Shorthorn bulls. Over the past ten years or so, using artiflcial insemination,
Friesian bulls have been so widely used that in 1970, for tl.e first time, the
number of Friesian and Friesian-cross cows exceeded the number of Shorthorns.
Just over 60% of all cows are bred artificially. For this purpose the two
main breeds used are Hereford (38.4% of all inseminations) and Friesian
(38.1%). It is considered likely that within the next 5-10 years, the bulk
of the national cow herd will be Friesians. From investigations carried out in
Ireland, it has been shown that the Friesians being used outperform the
present Shorthorn cattle in growth rate and produce carcasses more suited
to present day needs.
15.       With Ireland's impending entry into the European Economic Community,
(EEC) and the prospects thereby opening up for marketing increased quantities
of meat and dairy products at attractive prices, a good deal of speculation
has taken place as to the likely increases in production which might result
in the next few years.  Surprisingly most of these studies and projections
have focussed on the importance of increasing the.output of cattle and milk
by raising the number of breeding cows. Much less emphasis appears to have
been given to increasing output through lifting the present levels of produc-
tLve efficiency.
16.       Two separate studies, aimed at determining the factors responsible
for the changes which have taken place in the cattle population of Ireland
since the early 1960's, reached the conclusion that a farmer's decision to
increase the size of his breeding herd by mating additional heifers is
influenced, more than anything else, by the value of an in-calf heifer
relative to the nearest alternative which is selling the heifer as a store
animal for export. The marked increase in breeding cow numbers, from 1964
onwards, is attributed to the introduction by the Government, under the
aecond Program for Economic Expansion, of increased milk prices and in
particular the Calved Heifer Subsidy Scheme. Under this scheme, which was
replaced in 1969 by the present Beef Cattle Incentive Scheme, a subsidy
of L 15 per head was paid to farmers for each additional he.fer that
produced a calf over above the herd numbers in the previous years. From
investigations such as these, coupled with the expected increases in milk
and cattle prices following Ireland's entry into the EEC, a number of
projections on the likely rate of expansion of the national breeding herd
have been made. These projections range from as little as 3.4% per year
.r a period of 7 years, which would result in a herd of 2.3 million cows
by 1977, to 6.7% per year for a period of 5 years providing 2.5 million cows



ANNEX 1
Page 5
by 1975.  To more fully exploit the situation one authority has proposed that
cow numbers should be increased by 10% per year for the next three years,
when the position should be reviewed.
17.       With the approximately 400,000 heifers surplus to herd requirements
presently sold each year either for export alive or for slaughter, it is
unlikely that the rate of expansion would be limited on biological grounds.
In this connection, however, it should be noted that during recent years
some 54% of all matings, both natural and artificial, have been to beef
breed bulls. For this reason, more than half of the heifers would be
unsuitable for dairy herd replacements. The present emphasis on the use of
single purpose beef breed bulls, such as Hereford and Angus, compared with
the dual purpose Friesian breed, could limit the rate of cxpansion to 7-8%
if the present ratio of dairy to beef breeding cows of 2:1 is to be main-
tained.
18.       Ample evidence exists to show that the present average stocking
rate of one grazing livestock unit (LU is equivalent to a '0-1/2 cwt. cow)
to just over two acres of grassland could be considerably Increased. From
1957, the number of LU's has been increasing at the rate oi 2.2% per year
or an average of around 80,000 annually over the whole country. Since 1963,
this rate went up to 2.6%, and between 1969 and 1971 to 3.9% increase per year,
to reach a total of 4.67 million LU's in the national cattle herd. If breed-
ing cows are to increase from 1.8 million to 2.5 million in the next seven
years, a target considered reasonably obtainable by a number of authorities,
and the other classes of cattle are to remain in the same proportion to cows,
then the farmlands of the country will be required to accommodate a total
of some 8.6 million head, equivalent to 6.4 million livestock units. This
would represent an annual increase of 4.6% per year in LU's to reach an
average stocking rate of 1 livestock unit t#j just over 1-1/2 acres of grass-
land.
19.       Experimental data on the productive capacity of irish soils
indicate that on average this could approximate one livestock unit to
1-1/4 acres on the lowland mineral soils by the application of existing
knowledge and techniques. However, this capacity represents what might be
expected with an input of 6 cwt. of nitrogenous fertilizer per acre per
year with adequate phosphorus and potassium. The consumption of fertilizers
has increased considerably over the years and in 1970-71 reached a level of
86,000 tons of nitrogenous fertilizer, 78,000 tons of phosphorus, 126,000
tons of potassium and 1,629,000 tons of limestone. However, these amounts
fall far short of the three million tons of nitrogenous fertilizer which
would be required to meet the 6 cwt. per acre level suggested on a
national basis. It has been shown too, that 70% of the variation in
livestock densities in some counties is associated with soil drainage
differences. Investment in improved drainage would also be an important
requirement in some areas if stock numbers are to be appreciably increased.
20.       Under a system of grassland farming, as stock numbers increase,
provision must be made for additional feed supplies either as conserved
forage such as hay, silage, and home grown cereals, or purchased feed, for



ANNEX 1
PLge 6
use during the winter period when grass growth is dormant.  That farmers
are responding to this need is indicated by the increasing quantities of
silage being harvested. In 1963, for example, some 3,500 farmers conserved
427,000 tons of silage; by 1970 18,000 farmers had adopted the practice and
in that year conserved an estimated 3,378,000 tons. However, assuming the
same levels of animal productivity are maintained, it is estimated that to
meet the feed requirements of another 2.8 million head of cattle, an
extra 10 million tons of silage and 320,000 tons of feed grains would be
required compared with the amounts used in 1970.
21.       A notable feature of the Irish farming scene is the large gap
which exists between the high level of improved technology reached on
research stations, as well as by a few of the more enterprising farmers,
and the standard of management practised on the average farm. While this
indicates the technical feasibility of achieving a greatly increased level
of productivity, it also gives some measure of the efforts which will be
needed to reach the targets set. It would seem inevitable that the changes
necessary to bring about the substantial and sustained lift in the amount
of feed required to significantly increase the size of the national herd will
come but slowly as the overall efficiency of farming increases. This slow-
ness of farmers in general to adopt improved methods and to invest in new
intensive systems of production is reflected in the very low ratio of
indebtedness to total assets of around 7% which obtains in Irish agriculture
(Annex 5, para 5).
22.       For these reasons all available methods to increase output must
be used.  In addition to expanding the breeding kerd and increasing grassland
production, efforts must also be focused on raising animal productivity.
More efficient use must be made of feed supplies already available. Under
the Project, priority would be given to:
(a) reducing the age at which cattle are sold off the farm
for slaughter or for export alive;
(b) expanding the calf crop by increasing the beef cow herd; and
(c) rearing the maximum number of calves on both dairy/beef and
straight fattening farms.
23.       An examination of the age composition of the national herd Table I
shows that at the time the cattle census is taken in June of each year, more
than a million cattle, still on the farms at this time, are between two
ane four years of age.  Since most of the heifers to be brought into the
breeding herd would have been mated at 15-21 months, they would be included
"i this total. Despite the fact that almost 50%, other than cull cows,
are sold in store condition for export to the United Kingdom, most of the
remuainder are not fattened until 2-1/2 to 3 years or more of age, to be
sold off grass in the latter half of the year.
'4"4      There is clearly considerable scope for taking advantage of the
high correlation which exists between rate of gain and efficiency of gain,                 0



ANNEX 1
Page 7
and thereby obtaining a substantial increase in productivity.  Hereford X
Friesian and Hereford X Shorthorn are the predominant breeds of cattle
kept for beef production in present day Ireland. Steers of these first
crossbreds should reach 10-1/2 cwt. liveweight at 2 years of age under a
predominantly grassland environment, provided they are fed sufficiently to
maintain their growth during the winter. For calves born weighing 80 lb
this means an average liveweight gain of 1.5 lb per day from birth to two
years of age. Meat processors slaughtering cattle for export have for some
years paid premium prices for cattle marketed in the spring months of March
and April compared with September/October. This presently amounts to almost
b 2 per cwt. liveweight, and so represents a very worthwhile incentive to
finish cattle earlier than presently practised.
25.       In th! United Kingdom, the demand for Irish store cattle is also
highest in the spring when surplus grass is becoming available, and an even
higher differential price is paid for store than for fat cattle marketed in
March and April, compared with those sold later in the year.
26.       This situation suggests that the marketing policy of the cattle
fattener should be to draft all finished cattle at or around two years of
age for slaughter in March/April, to sell the more forward stores for
export live in the same months and to finish the remainder on surplus
spring and early summer grass. The effect of such a policy, if widely
adopted, on the c';-nposition of the national herd is shown in Table II. With
the present levels of productivity an increase in the national herd of 1.7
millioni livestock units would be necessary to raise output some 600,000
head. By raising productivity, almost the same output would be achieved
with an Increase in the national herd of only 400,000 livestock units.
27.       Farmers running straight beef breeding herds on land marginal
for fattening would be encouraged to sell their young stock at the yearling
stage for fattening on better country. This would leave room for an
increase in the size of the breeding herd and result in the production of
more calves, an operation for which that type of land is best suited.
28.       Herd composition statistics depicted in Table I indicate that
animals under one year of age amount to about 86% to 88% of the breeding herd.
Thus, there is a wastage of about 12 to 14%. About half of this is known to
be due to a calf mortality of around 7-8% due to various infectious
diseases. The remainder is brought about by abortions, calves born dead
and the failure of cows to calve within a year of their previous calving.
Studies are in progress aimed at reducing this wastage.
29.       A new procedure designed to increase the calf crop is known as
the "once bred heifer' scheme. In this scheme heifers surplus to herd
replacements, which are kept to produce beef, are bred to produce a calf.
They are then dried off within 14-16 weeks of calving and are ready for
slaughter within 10-12 weeks of weaning. With the 400,000 heifers a year
surplus to herd replacements which could be available, this procedure, if
widely used, could bring about a significant expansion of the Irish beef
industry. A good deal of promoting maybe necessary io get this method widely
adopted in practice.



VXNEX 1
Page 8
D. Pig Production
30.       Pig production in Ireland has traditionally been a small scale
enterprise operated as a side-line to the main farming occupation. In 1960
for example, there were 110,000 farm holdings in the country with pigs, but
of this total 86,000 had only ten pigs or less and 37,000 h&i only two pigs
or less.
40.       During the past 10 years, the number of saws and gilts kept for
breeding have fluctuated from 103,000 to 139,000, but from 1966, the numbers
have increased each year and reached 151,300 in 1971. In this same year,
the total number of pigs recorded in the June census was 1,309,000. In 1970/71,
some 2.2 million pigs were slaughtered for which farmers were paid about
i 41 million. Around 924,000 were exported, mostly to the United Kingdom,
earning almost h 16 million in foreign exchange. However, against this
must be debited the cost of imported feed. Farmers expended about b 60.8
million on the purchase of feed stuffs for all animals, including cattle,
poultry and pigs in 1971, and some i 19.4 million was spent on the 646,000
tons of feed imported. It is doubtful if more than half of these imports
was used for pigs.
41.       A good deal of discussion has taken place about the future for
the pig industry in an enlarged EEC, much of it focused on possible changes
in the pig/feed price relationship.  This is a major factor affecting the
profitability of pig production. Presently (1972), pig meat prices
approximate i 15.5 per cwt. cold dressed weight, and pig feed costs around
i 2 per ewt. 9 a ratio of 7.75:1. With Ireland's entry intu the EEC, pig
meat prices are expected to gradually equate with those in the EEC (Annex
3, Appendix 4) reaching b 20.2 per cwt. by the end of 1917. The cost of pig
feed will also rise and under the Project an allowance has been made for an
increase of 6.8% per year over the transition period of five years, reducing
the final ratio to about 6.8:1. However, in other EEC countries, the high
price of feed grain imports has encouraged the use of cheaper non-grain
substitutes such as manioc chips and meal and corn gluten. Many of these
non-grain feeds are allowed to enter the EEC duty and levy-free, and where
these do apply they are only about one-fifth of those applied to maize and
milo. It should also be noted that the increased output of the dairy and
b,eef industries, following Ireland's entry into the EEC, would result in
further supplies of by-products (such as whey and meat meal) which, if
efficiently utilized, could help appreciably to lessen the cost of pig feeds.
4'        Feed conversion efficiency is clearly of major importance.  For
sume years, a number of pig improvement schemes have been sponsored by the
Department of Agriculture and Fisheries.  Only boars which are registered
in the Irish Large White and Irish Landrace Herd Books, and which are
iicensed, maybe retained for breeding. Progeny and performance testing of
boars is carried out at the Dublin and Cork Testing Station3.  Data from
these stations indicate that the genetic merit of Irish pigs, in terms of food
conversion and daily gain, is equal to that of pigs in other EEC countries.
At the farm level, however, there is room. for further improvement.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
43.       Sow productivity is another important criterion of efficiency.
This is partly a factor of litter sixe, but primarily of litter frequency.
Using management techniques such as double mating, feed restriction,
earlier weaning and batch farrowing, it should be a relati"rely simple
matter for Irish farmers to improve their efficiency faccor so as to be
competitive with the best in Europe.
44.       In so far as carcass quality is concerned, there is every
evidence that the pig breeding program, at present being implemented,
has improved quality to an extent which places Irish producers on a par with
their EEC competitors.
45.       The Irish climate represents a real advantage in reduced housing
costs compared with many European farmers, who are forced to install arti-
ficial heating systems.
46.       The structure of the Irish pig industry, both at the production
and processing levels, is undoubtedly the most important ard the most likely
constraint limiting the ability of the Irish pig industry to compete on the
EEC market. At the processing level, steps are being taken to rationalize
the number and size of bacon factories (Annex 4, para 13).
47.       At the production level, herd size is greater in all EEC countries
(except Italy) than in Ireland. Denmark and Britain havs considerable
advantages over Ireland in this respect. Also few Irish pig herds are self-
contained breeding/fattening. This represents a disadvantage with respect
to disease control as well as in handling and production costs. To help
solve these difficulties and to provide an assured outlet Zor weaners from
the smaller pig breeders, some cooperative pig fattening units have been
established.
48.       In cases where the small size of the farm is the main constraint
to further development, it is intended, under the Project, to enlarge
existing pig breeding units or to establish new ones, so as to raise
incomes to more acceptable levels and at the same time prcvide fuller employ-
ment opportunities. Where appropriate, cooperative and private pig fattening
units would be established to provide an assured outlet for the weaner pigs
produced.
49.       In sumTary, it is expected that, with the funds made available
under the Project, and the resultant trend towards larger production units,
the overall efficiency of pig production will be raised.






**                                                                                                                      '0 *Z
IREIAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ch,anges in Cattle Numbers, Herd Structure and Output
('000)
Other Cattle
Total
Total       Breeding      Under                                      3 Years       Heifers                  Cattle       Output
Year                Cattle      Cows           1 Year      1-2 Years       2-3 Years      and Over       in-calf      Bulls      ^:tput      _ 
1960                4,741         1,284        1,103         1,098           843            273           122          18        1,064         22.4
1962                4,742         1,309        1,160         1,078           799            238           142          16        1,186         25.0
1964                4,962         1,400        1,233         1,120           792            201           202          15         1,292        26.0
1966                5,590         1,582        1,382         1,325           896            224           166          15         1,374        24.6
1968                 5,572        1,607        1,364         1,295           897            213           183          14         1,384        24.8
1970                 5,842        1,699        1,489         1,403           932            208           196           15        1,449        24.8
1971                 6,141        1,782        1,564          1,415          938             193          233           16        1,471        24
1975                 8,621        2,500        2,200          1.989        1.318             264          325                     2,070         24
197?   /             7,150        2,500        2,200         2,110           315                            -           25        2,045         28.6
1/ Estimated
2/Herd Structure if age at slaughter reduced.
Note: Cattle Output = live exports plus cattle slaughtered for domestic consumption and export, less live imports plus/minus stock
inventory changes.






ANNEX 2
Page 1
9                                                IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government's Agricaltural Policy
with Special Reference to Stractural Reforms
Land Tenure
History
1.01      Five hundred years after the Anglo-Norman invasion (12th century)
of Ireland, the English tenure system was instituted. This system was very
unfavorable to the tenant as it gave him neither security of occupancy nor
protection for his improvements. Following disastrous agricultural seasons
of 1879 and 1880, the tenants organized a protective association known as
the Land League and vigorously agitated for better conditions. The League's
main goals were the "Three F's" - fixity of tenure, fair rent, and free sale.
Success came when the British Government consented to appoint a commission to
investigate the tenants' grievances. The result was the establishment of
the Land Act of 1881 and the Land Code.
1.02      Irish Land Code history generally can be divided into the following
time periods during which more than fifty statutes or portions of statutes
were incorporated in the Code.
(a)  1870-1922       - Land Acts passed by the British
(b)  1923            - Native Rule Established
(c)  1923-present   - Land Acts passed by the Irish
1.03      Under the British Acts, the Irish Land Commission was established
(1881) and given the responsibility to administer the Land Code. Emphasis
was first placed upon securing fair rents for the tenants. This was very
successful as rents were reduced by about 20% and many were put on a fixed
15 year term.   The next objective was to transfer land ownership from land-
lords to the tenants. Up to 1923 when native rule was established, some
300,000 tenants were assisted in purchasing 11 million acres at a price of
L 100 million. This left about 25% of the tenancies still in the hands of
the landlords.
1.04      Under the post-1923 Irish Acts, the remaining 25% or approximately
113,J00 tenancies comprising over 3 million acres were purchased, often
under compulsion, from the landlords for about E 21 million. The land was
sold to the tenants at low interest rates with long repeyment periods.
From that point, after its role as a rent-fixing body and elimination



ANNEX 2
Page  2
of landlordism had been completed, the Land Commission concentrated its
efforts towards purchasing and distributing land, mainly for relief of rural
congestion.
1.05      The problem of congestion was first tackled 1891 when the Land
Act set up the Congested Districts Board. The Board's first actions were
limited to distributing aids for development such as seed potatoes, seed
oats, livestock and poultry-breeding, but later expanded intoD the enlargement
of small holdings. The focal area of its work was mainly within the nine
counties in the western parts called the "Congested Counties" 1/. By 1923
when the Board was dissolved and its responsibilities turned over the Land
Commission, about 750,000 acres had been distributed. From land sale proceeds
and sums voted by Parliament, the Board also financed improvement works
through grants or repayable advances.
Organization
i.06      The Land Commission is under the control of the Minister of
Lands who has the responsibility-for the Department of Lands. The Department
of Lands consists of the Land Commission and the Forestry Division. The
Land Commission finances its operating expenses from an annual money vote
authorized by Parliament.
1.07      The Land Commission consists of a Judicial Commissioner, who is
a judge on the high court, and four Lay Commissioners who are appointed by
the Government and hold office under statutory tenure. Day-to-day administra-
tion of the Land Commission is conducted by the four Lay Cummissioners who
have independent jurisdiction over private citizens except in cases where the
latter successfully appeal to the Judicial Commissioner and the Supreme Court
on questions of law.
108      More specifically, the Commissioners are solely empowered to
determine:
(a) the person from whom the land is to be acquired;
(b) the actual lands to be acquired;
(c) the price to be paid for the lands; and
(d) the persons to whom (and the price at which) the land
shall be allotted.
)3     The Land Commissioner has a staff of one thousand civil servants.
.here are 260 technical officers who are mostly University graduates in
-4iieering, agricultural science, and law.  Another 740 otficers work on
L,ie administrative side as executive officers, staff officers, and clerk-
t ,pists.
1t   At that time, the congested area was defined as Counties Donegal,
Sligo, Leitrim, Roscommon, Mayo, Galway, Kerry and portions of Clare
an.' Cork,



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Present-activities
1.10      To pursue its policy of relieving rural congestion and enlarging
uneconomic farm holdings, the Land Commission has targeted about 34,000
acres per year to be purchased and re-allocated to roughly 1,500 non-viable
farmers. Of the 1,500, approximately 1,000 are allocated more land, 450 have
their fragmented holdings restructured, and 50 are migrated to new farms -
often in the east. The method of land acquisition is by either voluntary
or compulsory means. The following table gives a picture of the sources
and methods of land acquisition:
Source & Method                'Payments        Acres      Prices
Voluntarily by exchange               Other land        9,000
Voluntarily at public auction
or by private treaty               Cash               3,500  )   Prices
ranges
-- Voluntarily by negotiation            Land Bonds       15,000  )   from E 5 to
i 150 per
-- Compulsorily acquired                   "    "          6,500  )   statute acre
1.11      Land gained by compulsory means is usually non-residential property,
neglected land, or land giving inadequate employment.
O        1.12       Cash for payment of land by the Land Commission is made available
through annual government appropriation.  The Land Bonds are issued with
authorization from the Ministry of Finance. In recent years,-the average
yearly expenditure of i 2 million has been financed by i 1.67 million Land
Bonds and i 0.33 million cash.
Relief of Rural Congestion
1.13      As the problem of rural congestion has been concentrated in the
western region 1/, the Land Commission has focused its energies in that area.
Relief of congestion is attempted by acquiring new land, rearranging inter-
mixed holdings and abolishing rundale 2/. Between 1923-1967, the Land Com-
mission redistributed approximately 831,000 acres in the western region for
resettlement. As the program progressed, however, the Land Commission found
it more and more difficult to obtain land for these purposes.
1.14      To remedy this situation, the Government introduced the Land Act
of 1965 to encourage the freeing up of land in the congested areas. The
Act had two main incentive schemes. The first was a retirement scheme for
elderly or incapacitated farmers who were willing to seil their lands to the
1/   The Western Region consits of the twelve counties - Cavan, Clare, Denegal,
Galway, Kerrv, Leitrim, Longford, Mayo, Monaghan, Ruscommon, Sligo, and
West Cork (See Map).
2/   Rundale - a distribution of lands among tenants or owners by which the
land is apportioned so that a single tenant (or owner) holding consists
of strips lying between those of others.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Land Commission.  The full market value of their lands could be paid to
them (a) in cash; (b) an actuarial equivalent life annuity; or (c) a combination
of part cash and part annuity. Farmers opting for the scheme were entitled
to retain that portion of their land on which they resided.
1.15      The second scheme under the Land Act was a Self-Migration Scheme
in which capital was made available to progressive, small fa:imers in the
congested areas to buy larger farms on the open market. The land previously
owned by the small farmer could then be made available as additional land
for relief of congestion. The qualifying farmer was permitted to borrow
three times the market value of his present holding, up to a limit of
b 10,000. The loans were repayable over 35 years, at an interest rate
equivalent to current Land Bond rates.
1.16      Both schemes have met with very limited success.  The retirement
scheme, for example, had only 31 participants as of early 1972. The problem
with both schemes appears to be insufficient financial compensation to
participants particularly during recent periods of high inflation in Ireland.
Enlargement of Farm Holdings
1.17      In its efforts to enlarge uneconomic farm units into viable
sizes, the Land Comrlssion in the 1960's fixed a standard holding at 40-45
acres of good land or its equivalent in land of mixed quality.  It has
tentatively estimated that roughly 60,000 small holdings from the potentially
viable and non-viable categories may qualify for enlargement. On the average,
appro-;Jinately 1,000 farm holdings are enlarged each year.
1.18      In recent times, land acquisition for land re-allocation has
become progressively difficult for the Land Commission (para 1.21). To
alleviate this problem, the Land Act of 1965 was passed to strengthen the
Land Commission's acquisition powers especially in regard to land acquisition
from owners of unoccupied or underworked land.
Lai-d L-easing
1.19      One technique of enlarging uneconomic-sized farm hLoldings which
has been practiced successfully in Europe is medium-to-long-term leasing
of land. In Ireland, only a short-term 11 month cash lease known as the
conaicre" system exists. This system, in great part, owes its existence
to the historical reluctance of the Irish to return to the landlord-tenant
s-vstem which they overcame only with great difficulties.  rhus, at least in
theory, the restriction to the 11-month lease period requires the owner of
t6e 'iad to retain physical possession one month out of the year which breaks
up any type of long-term leasing.
1.20      In 1965, only about 7% of all agricultural land in Ireland was
let under this conacre system. That same year, a new Land Act was passed
which made leased l1nds more vulnerable to take-over by the Land Commission.
Specifically, land leased by an owner living more than three miles away from
his land was a prime target for land Commission acquisition.  This provision
was principally aimed at land owned by Irish emigrants who had no intention



ANNEX 2
Page 5
of returning to work their land and non-farming persons wiho purchased the land
as an investment or as a hobby.
1.11      For the above-mentioned reasons, leasing in Ireland has not been
an attractive alternative for a person with some relatively idle or under-
developed land. However, as enlargement of farm holdings has become pro-
gressively difficult for the Land Commission due to the rapid rise in land
prices and the reluctance of farmers to sell land, the Land Commission
recognizes that long-term leasing is one of the few alternacives remaining
for Ireland. In addition, upon entry into the EEC on January 1, 1973 Ireland
must present a proposal for a long-term leasing system to be incorporated
in the EEC's "Encouragement to Leave Farming" Scheme (in accordance with
Article 6 of the same EEC Directive, Narch 24, 1972).
Farm Structure
Number
2.01      Of a total labor force of 1.1 million in the Irish economy, about
one-Lhird (345,000) is employed in various phases of the agricultural sector.
In the 1966 Census, approximately 200,000 land-holders declared farming as their
main occupation. Another 84,000 respondents declared themselves as family
workers or farm employees. The remaining 61,000 people are involved in other
agriculture-related work.  For farm statistics purposes, there are 200,000
farm units directly employing 284,000 people.
Rate of Decline in Farm Population
2.02      Between 1961 and 1966, the decline in the farmer population averaged
about 1% per year. This slow rate is accounted by the fact that over half
the farmers were aged 55 or older (1966) and do not actively seek any alter-
native to their present way of life. The decline in the total farming popu-
lation, however, has been more rapid as capital has substituted for labor.
Between 1960-65, the annual decline was about 2.8%. More recently this
decline has accelerated to 3% per year and is expected to continue at the same
rate into the 1970's.
Farm Size
2.03      The following gives the size classification of farm holdings above
5 acres:



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Percentage of Total Holdings         Yo. of Holdings
Under 15 acres                    14%                           28,000
15 - 30 acres                     23%                           47,000
30 - 50 acres                     26%                           52,000
50 - 100 acres                    25%                           48,500
Over 100 acres                    12%                           24,000
Total                       100%                         200,000
Farm Viability
2.04      Viability has been measured in two ways.  The first criterion for
viability is a measure of the economic employment content in the farm business.
In other words, if a farm provides sufficient employment for one to two-man-
years' equivalent, it would be considered an economically viable unit. The
specific measure used by the Irish is the Standard Man-Day (S.M.D.) concept
in which holdings with less than 200 S.M.D.s are considered non-viable, 200-
300 S.M.D. as potentially viable, and more than 300 S.M.D.s as viable.
2.05      The other criterion used is the level of farm's total gross margin 1/.
In this case, a threshold value of b 700 per year was chosen by a Government
Study Group as the lower limit for viable farms or farms that hope to become
viable. Expressed in terms of S.M.D.s, a farm needed about 200 S.M.D.s to be
at least potentially viable. This implied a gross income per S.M.D. of
roughly b 3.33 which, when related to 200 S.M.D.s, comes out to i6 666 or
roughly b 700.
2.06      On these bases, a Government-appointed committee grouped the
200,,00 farm units in Ireland in the following way:
No. of    Proportion
Categories of Farms   SMD   Farms        of Output
Viable                 300   88,000         69%
Potentially Viable    200-  44,000           14%
300
Non-viable             200   68,000         _%
200,000        100%
I/   See footnote to main text para 2.23.



ANNEX 2
Page  7
2.07      It is important to focus upon the viable farms ca.egory to get
a clearer picture of their composition and rectify a common error of
grouping them automatically as part of the commercial farming sector. Irish
farms should more accurately be described as having two sectors - commercial
and subsistence. The commercial sector is made up of the 1,iable and some of
the potentially viable which are ready for "take-off" as self-sustaining
farming enterprises. The number in this commercial sector is generally
considered to include over 100,000 farms. The remaining farms would fall
into the 'subsistence sector. In this sector, only about half are truly farms
in the sense that farming is the main occupation. However, they belong to
people who have almost no prospect of achieving viability due to constraints
imposed by age of the owner, state of health, or state of their technical
and/or managerial ability. The other half of this sector receive a good
portion of their incomes from off-farm employment, emigrants' remittances,
Social Welfare payments and other non-farm income. Only a part of their
total income is generated from work performed on the farm. The subsistence
sector should therefore be approached from a "social" rather than an
"agricultural" point of view.
Income Distribution
2.08      Accounts reflecting financial positions at the farm level is
the exception rather than the rule in Ireland so that information regarding
income distribution is unavailable through any direct census means.  However,
an estimate of relative farm incomes in the three economic categories of
Irish farms was made by a Government Review Committee. This was done by
assigning different predetermined coefficients for S.M.D. requirements for
various types of farm acreages and livestock, and assuming a relatively
constant income per S.M.D. for all sizes and types of farms. By this method,
the Committee estimated the following:
Estimated
Gross Agric.      Estimated Av.
Output          Annual Income
Type of Holding       No. of Farms       (1967)            (1967)
Viable                    88,000      b 2,076           b 1,281
Potentially Viable        44,000           831               515
Non-viable                68,000           301               187
200,000   i    1,199    Av,   6   779
Obstacles to Farm Development
2.09      Structural impediments to farm development in Ireland are primarily:
0



ANNEX 2
Page  8
Uneconomic size of farm holdings
(with excessive fragmentation)
Poor soil and topographic conditions in
some areas
-    Excessive number of old farmers and insufficient
number of farmers in productive age group
(20-44 years old).
2.10      In addition to these obstacles, farm development is hindered by:
(i) the lack of farm accounts and farm development plans; (ii) insufficient
coverage of technical agricultural advice; and (iii) inadeouate credit
facilities, poor use of collateral and a lack of appreciation of the use
of credit.
2.11      In discussing structural problems in Irish farming, frequent
references are made to the western region since roughly two-thirds of all
"non-viable" farmers come from those twelve counties.  The Region occupies
roughly half the country's total land area. Reasonably detailed information
is available for the western region as a result of a recent study conducted
under the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. Although
farm size, per se, is not the only determinant of non-viability, it plays a
very significant role, especially when farms are very small.
2.12      In the whole country, approximately 125,000 farms or 63% are
50 acres or less and 75,000 units or 37% are 30 acres or less.
2.l3      Compared with the national total, 84% of all farm holdings of
50 acres or less are situated in the west. Even more striking is the fact
that approximately 94% of all farm holdings of 30 acres or less are located
in the western region.
2.14      To aggravate the problem of smallholdings, about 47% of all
farms in the western region are fragmented into two or more non-contiguous
parcels of land separated by a distance of one-half to one mile.
2.15      The small farms in the west are located on land generally charac-
terized by mountains, hills, and drumlins which are not particularly
well suited for intensive crops and livestock. Certain improvements to the
land can be made by drainage and the application of fertilizer, but such
Diractices are not the rule on most farms.
The present age structure of the farmer poses a considerable
problem in farm development. In the west, almost 56% of the farmers are
over 50 years old. Half of those over 50 years old have no prospective
heirs. Many of those farmers in the productive age group '20-44) have emi-
grated from the country or have left agriculture.  The result is a fairly
static situatior. in which land tends to be utilized at low levels of
productive efficiency and there is relatively little med4um- to long-term
investment.



ANNEX 2
Page  9
Farm Taxation
3.01      Farmers in Ireland are, at present, subject to two kinds of
taxes - land rates payable to their local counties and the turnover and
wholesale taxes which will be changed to a value-added tax after entry to
EEC. Farmers are not liable to any form of farm business or personal
income tax.
Land Rates
3.02      The present land tax system evolved from the Valuation (Ireland)
Act of 1852 which set out to provide "one uniform valuation of lands and
tenements which may be used for all public and local assessments and other
rating". The basis of agricultural land valuation represented the estimated
net annual value of the land with the average crop and produce prices for
the years 1849-51. The assessment carried out under the 1852 Act is known
as Griffith's Valuation. According to Griffith's Valuation which essentially
is still used, land valuation in Ireland is estimated at i 7 million
(Appendix 1). In recent years, the net land rates actually paid by farmers
has been approximately equal to the aggregate of the valuation. Appendix 2
shows the schedule of net rates payable by farmers. The schedule reveals
that from 1962-63 to 1968-69, farms valued up to b 25 had a decline in land
rates while those valued above b 25 fouad their land rates increasing
between 6-10% per year. With increasing pressure to derate agricultural
land held by small farmers, the Government in 1967 allowed all small farmers
with holdings of b 20 valuation or under to be exempted from land taxes.
This effectively freed two-thirds of all farmers from paying tax on their
land. The tax liability to the local counties was taken o-ver by the Govern-
ment Exchequer so that in 1968/69 the Government paid over 70% of the
b 24.3 million land rates due to the counties.  The remaining b 7 million
was paid by Irish farmers whose holdings were valued at over b 20.
3.03      The inequity of the Rateable Valuation System has been recognized
by a Government-appointed Committee on State Aids. In particular, the
Committee finds that the derating of the smaller farmers in 1967 benefits
the absentee land owners and the part-time farmer to the detriment of Irish
land restructuring and farmers trying to enlarge their holdings. The
Committee recommended to the Government that all rates on land should be
abolished and all agricultural land now rated be subject to a flat land tax.
All full-time farmers would be given a maximum tax allowance from the Govern-
ment of L 30 which is the amount equivalent to offset the full tax burden
on a b 20 valuation holding. This proposal is being considered by the
Minister for Local Government and other Government Ministries.
Income Taxes
3.04      Although no income tax is assessed on farm protits, the Government
Review Committee on State Aids recommended that the profit after deducting
land tax be taxed in order to equalize tax liability, so it falls to well-
to- o farmers as well as nonfarmers. The Committee recongized that the
lack of farm accounts was the biggest obstacle towards implementing a tax



ANNEX 2
Page 10
system, and therefore recommended that during a 5-year transition period,
a "notional" income for each pound of land valuation be estimated for each
farm, and tax liability be determined from that. This proposal is under
consideration by the Government, although there appears little hope for its
early adoption.
Value-Added Tax (VAT)
3.05      Upon entry into the EEC, the Irish Government will have one year
(or until January 1, 1974) to convert its sales taxation systam to the VAT
method to conform with the existing system in the Community. The effect
on Irish farmers of a changeover to the VAT system will be negligible. Tax
charged under the VAT system will be equivalent to the present turnover tax
and wholesale tax which it is replacing. As is presently the case, the
ultimate tax burden will be borne by the consumer rather than the farmer.
The system will be operated in two ways. Under the first, a farmer who elects
to register under the VAT system will agree to: keep records of his purchases
and sales inclusive of the VAT; pay tax directly to the Revenue Commission
on his monthly sales, which is the tax amount the purchaser '.as paid the
farmer; and deduct from the total amount chargeable the tax invoiced to him
during the relevant month on his farm purchases.  In this manner, all the
indirect VA tax paid by him on his farm purchases is paid for from the
tax money paid to him on his produce sales.
3.06      To illustrate, suppose a farmer has paid i X of VAT on his farm
purchases in a given month and the gross tax paid by the purchaser of his
produce in the same month is L Y. He will deduct b X from X Y as reimburse-
ment, paying the Revenue Commission, therefore; only b (Y - X).
3.07      In the second case, where a farmer does not elect to register
under the VAT system and keeps records of his purchases and sales, he will
not be paying any taxes directly to the Revenue Commission. Instead, he
will first pay the VAT on his farm purchases and later recover the amount
by an addition to his selling price of the equivalent to the tax paid
indirectly on his farm purchases. The Government is proposing that this
addition be a flat rate of 1% on the tax-inclusive price of the goods for
agricultural purposes. The registered purchaser, in turn, would be able
to credit this 1% to his own tax liability to the Government on his own
sales. Under either VAT option, the farmer is not liable for sales tax on
iIis legitimate farm inputs as is presently the case.
..08      The VAT structure will employ a 5.26% rate to zeplace the existing
tutrover tax.  A VAT rate of 16.37% will be levied on wholesale goods and
a a it:e of 30.26% on luxury items such as cars and television sets. The
three foregoing rates were established by the Government's Revenue Commission
t.i easure that the same amount of tax will be collected by the Government
as prior to the VAT system and at the same equivalent tax rites.
..,19     As a special concession to the farmers in simplifying their role
li the new VAT system, the Government will "zero-rate" two major categories
of agricultural inputs--stock feeds and fertilizer. By zero-rating the



ANNEX 2
Page 11
*       two items, a farmer is relieved of the need to pay VAT at the point of
purchase and later recovering the tax from a registered purchaser.
Aids and Subsidies to Agriculture
Government Agricultural Aid Policy
4.01      According to the Third Economic and Social Development Program
(1969-72) for Ireland, the Government stated five objectives for agriculture
which directly require State aid:
(a)  increased efficiency in the production, processing
and marketing of agricultural output;
(b)  ensuring that agriculture makes the highest
contribution possible to the economic progress
of the nation;
(c)  ensuring that farmers who work their land fully
and efficiently share equitably in the growing
national prosperity and that a reasonable relationship
is maintained between farm incomes and those ir,
other occupations;
(d)  improving the structure of agriculture and strengthening
the economic and competitive capacity of the viable
farm; and
(e)  aiding the smaller and economically more vulnerable
farmer to secure an acceptable level of income.
4.02      More simply, Government wished to increase the net productivity
of Irish agriculture while achieving a minimum acceptable standard of
living for the smaller, poorer farms. The target for the Third Program
was to improve the annual average percentage increase in the Gross
Agricultural Product from 1.1%, which was the average for the years
1964-{8, to 1.8% (Appendix 3). The criteria for a minimum acceptable
income was more difficult to establish. Rather than specifying a minimum
income level per farm unit, the Program concentrated on more broad-gauged
approaches such as halting the deterioration of the ratio of "per capita
family farm income" to "per capita male adult earnings in industries" and
improving it as much as possible. This ratio, which stooe at 78.4% in
1960, had dropped to 69.7% by 1969 (Appendix 4).
Types of Government Aids
4.u3      In analyzing past Government aids to agriculture, one useful
method of approaching the numerous different types is to identify those
that are primarily intended as a device for farm income support and those
that aim at increasing net agricultural productivity.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
4.04      Appendix 5 gives a detailed year-by-year comparison of state                        0
expenditure in relation to agriculture from 1967 to 1973 (estimated).
Appendix 6 elaborates on the major expenditure categories. Excluding
category No. 7 which relates to the administration costs of the various
schemes, acts, and regulations, the remaining six categories can be listed
as follows:
Compensation                            Developirent
Improving Farm Income           Improving Agricultural Productivity
1.  Price supports and marketing aids.  3.  Productive incentives paid direct
to produceis.
2.  Payments to reduce production and   4.  Long-term development aids.
overhead costs.
5. Disease eradication.
6. Education, research, advisory
and administrative services.
4.05      Although Government policy in the Third Economic Program put about
equal emphasis on income and productivity improvements, the state expenditure
table shows heavier emphasis on the income improvement side. In 1967-68,
aids for income improvement comprised 72% of total aids (net of administra-
tion costs of various schemes, acts and regulations) while aids for
productivity increase made up only 28%. The 1972-73 governnment budget shows
marginal improvement towards more even aid allbcation with 66% devoted to
income improvement and 34% for productivity improvements. lo a certain
extent, the higher priority placed on income improvement has accounted for
the relatively low rate of agricultural productivity improvements in recent
years (para 4.02). It is also noteworthy that despite the heavier emphasis
on income improvement, farm income vis-a-vis nonfarm incomes have relatively
deteriorated in the last decade (para 4.02) even though, in absolute terms,
farm income doubled between 1960-71.
Government Policies in the EEC Environment
4.06      With the planned accession of Ireland into the EEC in January 1973,
the pattern of government expenditure in relation to agriculture will change
in line with EEC policy. biajor changes can be expected in che area of aid
which presently goes primarily toward farm income support. Although nego-
tiations between the Irish Government and EEC on specific items that must
be deemed compatible or incompatible with EEC policy have not yet been held,
there is general consensus that the price supports and marketing aids which
ctrrently make up about 30% of state aid will be replaced by the common
pricing and market intervention arrangements. According to a recent
Government White Paper on Ireland's accession into the EEC, the estimated
savings of approximately i 30 million may be made available by Government
for increased social expenditure such as improved social security payments.
Tthe remaining items will be negotiated with the EEC and chances for their
survival under the new system are good, except for the fertilizer and lime



ANNEX 2
9                                                                        Page 13
subsidies which may be eliminated due to distortion of competition within
the enlarged Community. Agricultural grants for relief of land rates is
unlikely to be affected by EEC entry. However, Government recognizes the
inequities of the present Rateable Valuation Ssytem and the entire system
may be overhauled to even out the land tax burden throughout the country
(para 3.03). There are no common regulations in the EEC affecting
agricultural taxation.
4.07      One of the most important developments which may come out of
Ireland's entry into the EEC is the structural reform cf Irish agriculture
required under the EEC Council of Ministers' March 24, 1972 Directives on
the "Modernization of Farms" and "Encouragement to Leave Farming" (Annex 3).
The restructuring of land, retiring of older farmers, enlargement of
holdings through long-term leasing, and the promotion of farm development
planning and credit use should have a great impact on improving agriculture
productivity and rural incomes. It is expected that the existing Small
Farm (Incentive Bonus) Scheme (Appendix 6, 3b) will be slightly modified
along EEC lines and its scope of operation greatly increased.



I



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
VALUATIONS 1965
Railways,
Fisheries,
Tolls, Half
Areas                          Land            13aildings      R2nts, etc.    Totals
County Health Districts          6,911,893       3OO13,10          109,b15      l0,03li,312
County Boroughs                     28,O5o3      349Il9, 5%6       170,323      4b,1h8,372
Urban Districts                     75,613       1,366,532          38, 535      1,80,680
Totals                    7, 016,009      8,329,182         318,273    15,663,h64



AMIN=X 2
Appendix 2
Net Rates Payable on Irish Agriacltural Land According to Valuation
i per Holding
Valuation
__1962/3                 196%/5       1966/7        1967/8       1968/9
20              13           10           12            -            -
25              21           19           23            16           18
30              29           28           34            33           36
Lo              46           h6           66            60           65
60              78           82          100           105          115
80             10o          117           143          151          166
100             143          153          187           197          216
150             22          242          296           312          342
200             307          332          405           427          468
Note: These are average figures for the country as a whole.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
1/
Growth in agricultural output and product, 1959-68.
Annual average percentage increases.
1959-63        1961-68         1969-72
Gross Agricultural Output                   3'5             25             2.7
2/
Gross Agricultural Product                  2'7             111             1.8
1/  Oatput in 1958 (the base year for this period) was adversely affected by un-
favourable conditions in that year.
2/ Current operating expenses are deducted from output to arrive at product.
*          3/  Projected figures.  Actual not yet available.



ANNYEX 2
Appendix 4
Per Capita          Per Capita           Farm-to-
Family Farm         Industrial           Tndustrial
Income 1/           Male Adult           Income
___________     Income 2/           Ratio
1960                              399                 509                  78.A
1968                              693                 923                  75.1
1969                              722               1,036                  69.7
1970 (Preliminary)                781               1,181                  66.1
1971 (ProJected)                  8h6               1,310                  64.6
1/ Including home consumed food at retail prices.
2/  Based on Transportable Goods Industries.



APPENDI 5
State Expendituire in ReLation to AP.rtcultuare
1967-68      1968-69      1969-70      1970-71       1971-72      1972-73
,ODO         1000          wo0o         ,o000        00o0         4000
Provisional  Fetimate      Estimate
1. Price Suprorts .s !1rkatini Aide
Dairy Produce                 19,295       25,1102       30,820       30,500       30,000        23,900
Beef, Hutton & Lamb            5,281        1,052         2,166        2,750        2,500         1,250
Bacon & Pork                   1,,h8        2,950         3,600        3,150        1,200 42,700
oats                             --                          13           25           25            15
Wheat                                          908          500       _ 27%            180          225
TOTAL                              25,997        30,312       37,099       36,700       36,905        30,090
2. Payments to Reduce Production
& Overhead Costs:
Lime & Fertilizers
Subsidies                      5,874        6,816         7,067        6,875        7,105         7,655
Reduction of Land Anmuities    1,113        1,148         1,191        1,257        1,337         1,160
Relief on Rates on
Agricultural Land             15.625       16,977        18.926       20.71,       1,.771       28.2s0
TOTAL                              22,612       2b,941       27,181        28,872       33,213       37,395
3. Production Incentives paid
Direct to ProdIucers:
Beef Cattle Incentive Grants     -            -           1,912        4,750        5,300         7,500
Sheep Grants                     175          366           596        1,326        1,500         1,750
Farrowed Sows                    275          190           159          100           75            L0
Small Farn Incentive Bonus       -            -             100          271          450           875
Calved lieifers                1.233        1L070         1,039          _            _            _
TOTAL                               1,683        1,626         3,806        6,L50        7,325       10,165
L. Long Term De.e'loprn A ds
acr.ital nature):
Arterial DrJiz age             1,253        1,369        1,3IJ7        1,637        1,287
Land Reclaremtion              3,hlb3       3,576         3,8L4        3,726        3,725      ( h,oooI/
Farm FUildings &t 'ater
Supplies                       2,105        2,597        2,866         2,937        2,970         3,500
Equiprasnt (rants (milk
c0olers, forage harvesters
and poultry)                     167          195           231          165           i4i          221
frnprovement of Livestock         85          107          2dl           396          430          265
Capital for Agricultural
Credit Oorzoration               900        1,500         1,000          -            -             -
Ibaral Electrificttion         1,166          801         1,560        1,800        1,150        l,h26
Im'provenent of Lpr.d
Corrd*ssion Estetes              851          900           905          771          972           955
Othe r Rural Trvrovement
Scher.es                         580          611           71,8         585          641           500
Horticulture                     160         1h38          171           450          519 87
TOTAL                              11,010       12,0714      13,176        12,1,67      11,835       11,357
5. Disease Eradication:
BoviFla * I                    2,101,       2,366        2,91h         2,900        2,000        3,200
Brucellosis                      335          338          326           800        1.500        1,800
TOTAL                               2,439        2,681        2,820         3,700        3,500        5,000
6. Education Research .d: iser
and Admini-itr-tiva 3ervt- eY
Educatioa                        967        1,331        1,51,1       1,780        2,537
Research                       1,785        1,935        2,336         2,937        3,036
Advisory Services                796          8118          970        1,085        1,132
Technical Oervtice               373          h34          478           575          611     ( 
ral Organization                 38           35          h1             38           38
Land and Building for
Dept. of Agriculture's
Colleges, Research Centers       220          14o           181          103          218     (
TOTAL                               h,179        4,723        5,550         6,518        7,572        7,814
7. Adminintration of INct5
__e __ula Lnzi  a n                760          819          912         1,063        1,178        1,239
GRAND TOTAL                        68,680       77,179       90,547        95,770      101,528      103,060
Note: Figures are net of approprietions in aid.
L/      oun not        o avih..






ANNEX 2
9                                                                      Appendix 6
Page 1
Description of Aid Categories
Description
1.   Price Supports and        Support of prices of dairy products, pigmeat,
Marketing Aids            carcass  beef and lamb, and cereals.  For example,
butter price is fixed since December, 1971 at
L 725 a ton and skim milk powder price for
export is set at i 185 a ton. This category
presently makes up almost 30% of total state
aid which, in absolute amount, exceeded the
total value of dairy exports in 1970.
2.   Payment to Reduce         This consists of a grant for relief of land
Production and Over-      rates and annuities, and lime and fertilizer
head Costs                subsidies.  Relief of rates and annuities are
direct contributions to farm income and currently
are slightly biased to aid the smaller farmer.
The fertilizer subsidy serves to defray farm
input costs but has not noticeably encouraged
X                                       greater fertilizer usage.
3.   Production Incentives    a.   Livestock headage grants made up of Beef
Paid Directly to Pro-          Cattle Incentive Scheme (which replaced
ducers                         the Calved Heifer Scheme in 1969), Farrowed
Sow Scheme; and Mountain Lamb Scheme
which are intended to promote production
lines that are regarded as promising.
b.   Small Farm (Incentive Bonus) Scheme in
which farmers with 50 acres or less and a
gross margin of under i 1,000 can parti-
cipate in a 4-6 year farm development
plan for which they can receive a L 500
bonus in addition to normal government
grants. Participants are required to
keep simple farm accounts. Since 1968,
this successful scheme has had 12,000
participants.
4.   Long-term Development    The three largest items in this category are
Aids                      land improvements (arterial drainage/land
reclamation), farm buildings and water supplies,
and rural electrification. Land improvement
grants are capital expenditures aimed at
directly improving the productive efficiency of
the land.  The maximum grant per statute acre



ANNEX 2
Appendix 6
Page 2
is L 50 in the western areas and h 45 in the
rest of the country. The buildings and water
supplies grant serves a similar goal. Build-
ing grants are available for co.structing,
improving, and repairing almost every type of
farm building and construction work on the
farm. The amount of grant varies according
to the type and size of the work. Water
supply grants are made to provide piped water
to the farms and fields. The amount of grant
for water supply is two-thirds of the approved
estimated cost subject to a maximum of i 100
in each individual case. The rural electrifi-
cation item should not be included here as
solely an aid to agriculture since it benefits
not only farmers but entire rural areas.
5.   Disease Eradication       Work on the elimination of Bovine T. B. and
Brucellosis has brought about &ignificant
improvements in the productivity of livestock
in recent years. Consequently, aid to this
sector is being increased.
6.   Education, Research,      Improvement of all phases of farm education is
Advisory and Adminis-    being pursued with help from a World Bank
trative Service           Education Loan for Agricultural Education
Centers. Investment in research makes up the
greatest portion of this category.
0



ANNEX 3
Page  1
IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ireland's Agriculture and the EEC
A. Introduction
1.        Ireland's accession to the European,Economic Community (EEC) on
January 1, 1973, will present a timely challenge and opportunity for the
advancement of Irish agriculture and its contribution to the country's
economic and social development. Much of the opportunity exists in the
field of Livestock, particularly beef and dairy cattle. It is unlikely to
be realized, however, without increased provision of credit and technical
advise to improve levels of productivity and management. Ireland is
fortunate in having a temperate climate and large areas of good quality
grasslands which are suitable for grazing most months of th2 year.
.fi    2.          As a member of the EEC, Ireland will participate in the Common
Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the Community which means that Irish farm
produce will enjoy unrestricted access to any part of the enlarged
Community.  The fundamental principles of the CAP, which was established
3uder Article III of the Rome Treaty founding the EEC on january 1, 1958,
may be broadly summarized as follows:
(a)  to progressively develop within the Community conditions for
agricultural products corresponding to an integrated internal
market, meaning particularly a common price level for
agricultural products;
(b) through intensified regional economic and structural policies
to raise the incomes of farm workers to the level of incomes
in comparable employment in the non-farm sector, and thus
improve the social well being of the agricultural population,
the concept of a "fair income" being based on the efficiently
managed family farm; and
(c) to achieve equilibrium between agricultural production and
demand, with due account being taken of the possible embarrass-
ment of over production in the Community and the importance of
agricultural trade with third countries.
3.        Two basic approaches have been developed in the Community to pursue
*       these principles.  The first, pricing and marketing policy, is dependent
largely on the prices farmers receive for strategic agricultural products.
The second approach is a policy of structural adjustment and rationalization
within the agricultural sector.



ANNEX 3
Page  2                      Q
B. Marketing and Pricing Policies in the EEC
4.        The marketing and pricing policies in the Community were developed
during a twelve year transition period and are intended to promote fair
incomes for full-time agricultural workers on farms which ale economically
viable and well managed. They are also intended to help achieve a balance
between demand and supply (including imports from third countries) of
agricultural products, and to encourage generally the harmoni.ous development
of agriculture within the Community.
5.        To these ends, price stability is sought for a strategic group
of basic agricultural commodities -- namely, cereals, dairy products and
sugar. They are characterized not only by their prominence in EEC agriculture,
but also by their ineleasticity of supply and demand. Even small variations
in amounts supplied or demanded are likely to cause considerable fluctuations
in prices and incomes.
6.        Each year the Commission sets a common target price for each of the
main cereals (wheat, barley, maize and rye), for creamery (i.e., manufacturing)
milk, and for white sugar. These target prices are not guaranteed prices
for producers, but are prices which the Commission aims to maintain for
these products with the various mechanisms of the relevant marketing
regulations.  In addition to the common target prites, the Commission estab-
lishes common intervention prices for these products and/or their derivatives.
Intervention prices for butter, powdered skim milk and certain cheeses
ensure a certain minimum price for producers' milk. In the case of wheat
and barley, intervention prices are fixed at sofie 7% below the target
prices. Given that the State intervention agencies are obliged to purchase
at the intervention prices any Community grown grains offered to them,
these prices guarantee in effect a minimum price to producers.
7.        The Community's internal prices are further protected by minimum
import or "threshold" prices for imports from third countries. These
threshold prices apply also to direct derivatives of the strategic products,
such as flour, various dairy products and molasses. The so-called "variable
levy", which is paid by the importer, is equal to the difference between
the threshold price and the lowest c.i.f. price on the world market for
the particular product, this latter price being calculated daily.
8.        The common marketing regulations also cover pigmeat, beef and veal,
as well as several other agricultural and horticultural products. Compared
with the strategic products, they are permitted greater freedom of price
formation. Pigmeat, poultry and eggs - essentially "transformed cereals" -
are characterized by the large proportion of grain required for their
production and their greater elasticities of supply and demand under
European conditions. For pigs, a "basic price" is set each year prior to
August 1.  The EEC Council of Ministers agreed in March 1972 to raise the



ANNEX 3
Page 3
1971/72 basic price for pig carcasses by 3.1% to 825 u.a. per tonne 1/
(E 17.46 per cwt). This basic price is used as a "trigger point" for'
determining intervention in the market, and intervention purchases must
take place when the market price falls below 85% of the basic price. The
intervention price is, then, an effective floor price.
9.        There are no threshold or target prices for pigs (or for poultry
and eggs) and protection from imports from third countries is effected by a
system of "sluice gate" rrices and import levies which replace any quantita-
tive restrictions or duties formerly in operation in member States.  These
sluice gate orices are minimum irnpcrt prices which are set at a level to
avoid disturbances on the Community market due to third country offers at
abnormal (or dumping) prices. Any offer below these prices would incur a
levy accordingly. In addition, a feed cost levy, or a "derived" variable
levy, is imposed which is derived from the difference between feed costs
in the Community and on the world market arising from the differences in
grain prices. Further, there is a fixed tariff of 7% of the sluice gate
price which is essentially a "converter protection" vis-a-vis imports from
third countries.
10.       In the case of beef and veal, the Commission establishes common
orientation prices for live cattle and calves prior to August 1 each year.
As with target prices, these orientation prices are not guaranteed
producer prices, but are an indication of the approximate level of market
prices aimed at for the following season. The annual average increase in the
EEC orientation price for beef was 5% between 1966/67 and 1971/72. Between
1971/72 and 1972/73, however, this price was raised by 15.2% (E 15.20 -
b 17.10/cut live weight) reflecting the shortage of beef in the EEC as well as
internationally.  A decision was made in April 1973 to increase the orientation
price by 10.5% for 1973/7a. The EEC orientation price has been projected to
increase by 5% annually 1972/73 through 1978/79.
11.       The EEC is approximately 88% self sufficient in beef.  To ensure
that actual market prices are kept near the orientation prices, there is
protection against imports from third countries by way of customs duties -
20% on beef and veal and 16% on live cattle and calves - and variable import
levies. These levies are set in such a way as to rise when Community prices
fall and reduce when Community prices increase. The full levy is charged
when the market price is equal to or less than the orientation price and
generally no levy is charged when the market price is greater than 106% of
the orientation price. Intervention by national intervention agencies is
obligatory when prices in a market fall to 93% while, at the same time, the
average Community price has fallen to 98% of the orientation price. Additional
arrangements, including import licensing, apply in the case of frozen beef
imports from third countries.
1/  The value of the unit of account (u.a.) is defined in gold and remains
at 1 u.a. = 0.888671 grammes of gold. This is identical to the value of
the U.S. dollar prior to devaluation in December, 1972. One tonne is
equal to 1,000 kg.



ANNEY, 3
Page 4
12.       For all these agricultural products, special provisions enable
member States to pay subsidies on exports to third couritries. The subsidies
generally represent the difference between world market prices ar.d those
ruling in the Community. They must be the same for the whole Community
although there may be differences according to the destination cf the
exports. The cost of export subsidies is borne by FEOGA (the Community's
Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund).
13.       Specific regulations have not been introduced for all pr;tducts.
The only provision relating to imports of mutton and lamb at present, for
example, is an ad valorem tariff of 20%.
C. Transition to EEC Marketing Regulations
14.       Ireland and the other three applicant countries Lo the Community
(Denmark, Norway and the United Kingdom) are required to align their
agricultural prices with the Community prices in six steps over the agreed
transitional period of five years. The starting point for alignment will
be determined prior to accession, and the price difference obtaining at the
start of the relevant marketing year for each product will be reduced by
one-sixth in 1973, one-fifth in 1974 and so on till final elimination on
December 31, 1977.
15.       During the transitional period the Community's price support                   0
system will be operating for Ireland, with its levels of target, threshold,
intervention and other prices fixed according to the alignment timetable.
The cost of any interventions or export subsidies will be ceimbursed by
the Guarantee Section of FEOGA.
16.       For trade between the new and established members of Lhe Community,
price differences will be accounted for by means of compensatory payments
to be levied on imports or refunded on exports in the sane manrer as variable
levies and export 3ubsidies are applied between the eilaolisheI uieti.bers and
hird countries at present.  Again, the costs or receipts from such trade
w-lId be on the account of FEOGA.  The timetable for `_.i;mantlement of indus-
trl_1 tariffs  will apply to tnose agricultural products, such as mutton
and lamb, which are not subject to common market regulatrions.
1,.       Tt was agreed during accession negotiations with the Cormmunity
c tiie implementation of the transitional measures should noL cestilt in
ai, diminution in the degree of freedom of trade already existing between
and the United Kingdom as a result of the 1965 Anglo-Irish Free
.tade Area Agreement.  The deficiency payments in the United Kingdom, which
&-assed back to Irish farmers for their exports of live store cattle
che United Kingdom, will be phased out as producer and consumer prices
.ecome alignied to EEC prices during the transition period.
lieland and the other applicant countries will likely experience
hrijnez  in their relative competitive positions in the production of beef,
and pij,meat.  During the transition period the price of pigs in Ireland



ANNEX 3
Page 5
is likely to increase by about 4.5% per year whereas the price of barley,
which is a major cost component in pigmeat production, should increase during
the same period by about 6.8% per year. 1/  Ireland should, nonetheless, remain
in a strong competitive position due to its high levels of production
technology and its temperate climate which enables cheaper housing for pigs
than that required in Continental Europe. There is a similar comparative
advantage in Ireland for beef production. Beef and dairy cattle may be
grazed outdoors on natural pasture for seven to nine months of the year,
and the levels of production technology are ligh.  A major challenge exists,
however, to extend known technology fromn the research stations to the
farmers, particularly to the smaller holders (Annex 1, para 21).
D. Structural Reform
19.       According to the terms of accession, Ireland will also participate
in the Community's program for structural reform in the agricultural sector.
The blue print for this program is embodied in three Directives adopted
by the Council of Ministers in March 1972. These Directives concern aid for
the modernization of farms, encouraging the cessation of farming activity
and the utilization of land so released for the improvement of existing
farm structures, and the development of social and economic information
.fi    systems and professional qualifications of farmers.  Part of the costs of
these reforms will be borne by the Guidance Section of FEOGA.
20.       For the purposes of the first two Directives, farms may be
classified into three groups: those considered viable in so far as they
provide an income comparable to the average gross wages of non-agricultural
workers, after accounting for all costs including returns to capital
(calculated on an established land rental basis); those considered potentlally
viable insofar as they presently provide a lower than comparable income
but are capable of being developed to provide a comparable income level within
six years; and those smnller farms which, for reasons of the farms themselves
or the ages and attitudes of their owners or tenants, are plainly non-viable.
21.       The only financial aid available to the first group of farms
will be in the form of an interest rebate, or its equivalent by way of
capital subsidy and/or grace period on the principal, as long as the
interest rate charged (or its equivalent) is at least 5%. This aid will
not be reimbursable by FEOGA.
22.       The principal thrust of financial aids will be concentrated on
the second or potentially viable group of farms. Farmers in this group,
wishing to receive aid, will have to agree to abide by an approved farm
1/   Prices for various farm products in the EEC and Ireland from 1967/68 to
1972/73 are given in Appendix 1 to this Annex.  Projected prices up till
1978 are given in Appendices 2, 3 and 4.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
development plan which should assure, in principle for one or two manpower
units, an income comparable to that outside agriculture after a maximum
period of six years. Interest rebates or their equivalent will be provided,
but excluded from the calculation will be any expenditure incurred in the
purchase of land, pigs, poultry or feeder calves. The rate of interest
payable on an approved loan must be at least 3%, the maximum rebate (or its
equivalent) will be 5% and the period of the rebate shall, in principle, not
exceed 15 years. The capitalized interest equivalent in the form of a grant
or grace period would amount to approximately 25% of total investment costs
subject, however, to a maximum total investment of 40,000 u.a. per manpower
unit. Twenty five percent of the eligible aid will be reimbursable by FEOGA.
This means that for an approved development plan the farmer would provide
approximately 3/4 of the financing, with grant finance from the member State
amounting to approximately 3/16, and 1/16 from FEOGA.
23.       Where a farmer's physical and personal security are insufficient
to support the loans contracted and interest thereon, the State will be
required, where necessary, to provide a guarantee to the lending institution
for the shortfall. In the case of farms which are presently viable but
which without development would decline to potentially viable, interest
rebates or their equivalent will be provided by FEOGA on 80% of loans. In
regions designated by the EEC Council as "backward", which is likely to be
the case for the wes t of Ireland, State subsidies may be reimbursable by
FEOGA up to 65%. When the development plan provides for the purchase of
cattle or sheep, the granting of aid for such purchases will be restricted
to those cs.es where, after development, the sales deriving from cattle
or sheep exceed 60% of the farm's total sales.
24.       The first Directive provides also that prior to September 15, 1972,
the Council will determine an orientation premium to help shift farming
activities towards the production of beef and mutton. In principal, therefore,
Ireland's present Beef Cattle Incentive Scheme (Annex 2, App. 6, para 3), is
consistent with the Community's new policies.  Those farmers requiring
approved development plans will be obliged to keep detailed farm accounts
for which they will receive additional aid of up to 450 u.s. spread over
four years. Other full-time farmers will be eligible for this account
keeping aid on request.
25.       It is expected that the duration of these farm modernization
measures will be ten years and the cost chargeable to FEOGA for the first
.five years is expected to amount to 432 million u.a. (E 181 m.).
26.       The Second Directive stipulates that Member States introduce an
incentive scheme to encourage labor to leave the land and to promote the
use of this vacated farmland for more productive agricultural or non-
agricultural purposes. Single farmers and farm employees between the
ages of 55 and 65 who wish to leave agriculture will be offered a pension
of 600 u.a. and their married counterparts 900 u.a. annually. To qualify
for these pensions these farmers must either lease or sell their land
to farmers benefiting from Community farm development aids or totally
withdraw their land from agricultural use for such purposes as afforestation,
leisure and so forth. Any leasing arrangements must be for a minimum of
12 years.



ANNEX 3
e                                                                              Page  7
27.       Expenses incurred by member states in implementing the schemes
under this second Directive will normally be eligible for a refund from
FEOGA of 25%, but in designated backward farming regions FEOGA will refund,
under certain conditions, 65% of the eligible expenses. Member States may,
if they wish, increase the pension or pay the beneficiaries an equivalent
lump sum. It is estimated that the total cost to FEOGA of these measures
will be 288 million u.a. (E 120 m.) over the first five years.
28.       The cost to FEOGA of supporting the Third Directive on the
organization in member States of a system for the promotion of social and
economic information for farmers, agricultural wage earners and family
workers is estimated to be 110 million u.a. (E 45.8 m.) for the first
five years.
29.       In so far as the provisions in the first two Directives are intended
primarily to aid small and medium sized farms, it is estimated that some
40,000 to 50,000 farms in Ireland will be in the "potentially viable"
category (Annex 2, paras 2.06 - 2.08) and therefore eligible for FEOGA
assisted development plans. The number of eligible farms should be
greater to the extent that smaller farmers are induced by the provisions
of the second Directive to overcome their historic prejudice against
leasing their land. The availability of this land should enable many
farmers, with otherwise non-viable farws, to enlarge their properties
and become potentially viable without the difficulties of securing capital
aor the purchase of such land.
30.       The present IBRD Livestock Project is consistent with the objectives
of the Community's structural reform program. The availability to Irish
farmers of suitable credit, technical assistance, improved accounting
methods, higher farm product prices and the advantages of the larger market
in the EEC, should stimulate investment for increased production and
improved productivity.






EEC Common Prices and Irish Prices (1967/72)
EEC Price                                                                        Irish Price
Nature of Price       Unit of   1967/8  1968/9  1969/70 1970/71  1971/72 1972/73    Nature  of  Price             1967    1968    1969       1970    1971
Quantity
Commodity
Cattle     Orientation Price for   Live cwt. L14.02  L14.39  L14.39  L14.39  L15.24  L15.88  Average price (a)                  L 7.28  L 8.61   L 9.00  L 9.66 L10.77
cattle
Milk       Target Price (b)          gallon    17.52p  19.00p  19.00p  19.00p  20.10p  21.76p  Average price received    11.70p  ll.9Op   11.80p  12.10p 13.30p
by producers
Intervention Price       cwt.       L37.30  L36.70  L36.70  L36.70  L37.60  L38.10  Guaranteed price to             L23.45  L23.45   L23.45  L23.45 L23.45
(butter)                                                                             creameries  (butter)                                               (c)
Intervation Price        cwt.       L 8.70  L 8.70  L 8.70  L 8.70  L 8.90  111.43  Skim powder (price paid
(skim powder)                                                                         by Dairy Board under
price stabilization Schem L 3.88  L 3.88   L 3.88  L 3.88 L 3.88
(c)
Pigmeat    Basic Price               cwt.d.w.  L15.50  L15.87  L15.87  L15.87  L1S.87  L16.36  Average Price (d)                L.13.24  L13.71   L14.15  L14.93 L15.49
Cereals:
Soft Wheat Target Price              Ton        L44.97  L44.97  L44.97  L44.97  L46.33  L48.20  Wholesale  Price                L39.60  L39.60   L40.00  L40.00 L41.60
Intervention Price       Ton        L41.80  L41.80  L41.80  L41.80  L42.64  L44.40
Barley     Target Price              Ton        L38.62  L40.00  L40.40  L40.40  L42.40  L44.20  Wholesale Price                 L27.45  L27.70   L29.40  L30.25 L33.77
Intervention Price       Ton        L35.98  L37.24  L37.45  L37.45  L38.96  140.60
SugarBeet  Minimum producer price  Ton          L 6.98  L 7.20  L 7.20  L 7.20  L 7.20  L 7.48  Contract Price                  L 7.55  L 7.55   L 7.70  L 7.70 L 7.90
Notes:
(a)   Prices of 9-10 cwt. bullocks at Marts.
(b)   EEC target price is fixed for milk of 3.7% butter fat content.  The prices quoted are related to milk of 3.5%
fat content i.e. the normal level in Ireland.
(c)   Under revised pricing arrangements for butter and skim powder, the butter price was increased to L36.25 per cwt. as from
1 December, 1971, and a guaranteed price (L9.25 per cwt) was introduced for skim powder,
(d)   Average annual prices of pigs purchased by Licensed Curers.
Xcw



ESTIMATED CATTLE PRICES DURING TRANSITION PERIOD L/CWT. L.W.V
Year (April-April)         Price Adjustment                                                       E.E.C.                    IRELAND                          IRELAND
Orientation            Estimated market              Estimated Intervention
price                      price                           price
1970/71              Actual prices                                                           14.4                       10.6
1971/72              Actual prices                                                           15.2                       11.8                               _
1972/73              (Actual price (E.E.C.)                                                  17.10                      14.20                            13.2
(Estimated 5% increase (Ireland)
1973/74              (Estimated 5% increase (E.E.C.)                                         17.96                      16.86                            15.7
(1/6 E.E.C. - Ireland price difference eliminated)
1974/75              (Estimated 5% increase (E.E.C.)                                         18.85                      17.62                            16.4
(1/5 E.E.C. Ireland price difference eliminated)
1975/76             (Estimated 5% increase (E.E.C.)                                          19.80                      18.45                            17.2
(1/4 E.E.C. - Ireland price difference eliminated)
1976/77              (Estimated 5% increase (E.E.C.)                                         20.79                      19.41                            18.1
(1/3 E.E.C. - Ireland price difference eliminated)
1977/78              (Estimated 5% incsease (E.E.C.)                                         21.82                      20.65                            19.2
(1/2 E.E.C. - Ireland price difference elimirnated)
1978/79              Price equalisation                                                      22.92                      22.92                            21.3
1    In calculating these prices the following assumptions were made:
1.  No major changes in E.E.C. agricultural policy will occur over the period.
2.  'The E.E.C. orientation price for cattle will increase by 5% per annum.  The commnon policy for
cattle and beef was inaugurated in ly96 and since then two increases in the orientation price
have occured, in 1971 and 1972. The mean of these two increases in percentage terms
is approx. 5%. Continuing annual increases of this magnitude are considered reasonable
due to the predicted large continuing shortage of beef in the E.E.C.
3.  In the E.E.C. actual market prices may be considerably higher tharn orientation prices,
particularly in deficit countries, but as Ireland will be a surplus producer estimated
orientation prices may be appropriate as an indicator of Irish market prices.
0D



ESTIMATED MILK PRICES DURING TRANSITION PERIOD P/GAL.1/
Year (April-April)      Price Adjustment                                               E.E.C.                               IRELAND
Estimated target prices              Estimated market prlre
1971/72            Actual prices                                                   21.1
1972/73            (E.E.C. - from Se    72                                         23.0                                 16.8
(Ireland - estimated price)
1973.74            (Estimated 3% increase - E.E.C.                                 23.7                                 18.4
(1/6 E.E.C. - Ireland price difference eliminated
1974/75            (Estimated 3% increase - E.E.C.                                 24.4                                 20.1
(1/5 E.E.C, - Ireland price difference eliminated
1975/76            (Estimated 3% increase - E.E.C.                                 25.1                                 21.8
(1/4 E.E.C. - Ireland price difference eliminated
1976/77            (Estimated 3. increase - E.E.C.                                25,8                                 23.6
(1/3 E.E.C. - Ireland price difference eliminated
1977/78            (Estimated 3% increase - E.E.C.                                 26.6                                 25.5
(1/2 E.E.C. - Ireland price difference eliminated
1978/78            Price equalisation                                              27.4                                 27.4
1/   In calculating these prices the following assumptions were made:
1. The E.E.C. target milk prices will increase by 3% per annum. Although this is considerably
less than the 6 to 7% increases in the last two years it is  a reasonable estimation considering
a possible surplus of dairy produce in an enlarged E.E.C.
2. Ireland as a surplus producer will receive estimated milk prices (ex factory) similar to those
received in France (also a surplus producer). As average milk prices in France in the current year
are estimated to be approximately 103%of the E.E.C. target milk price it was assumed that Irish milk
prices would be equal to the estimated target price for milk at the end of the  transitional period
and consequently were aligned in relation to the target price during the transitional period.                                                  CD
X 



ESTIMATED PIGMEAT PRICES DURING TRANSITION PERIOD I4CWT.D.W. 4]
Year (Nov-Nov) or         Price Adjustments                                         E.E.C.                            IRELAND
Calendar)                                                                  Basic  price                 Estimated market price
1970                      Actual prices                                              15.9                               14.2
1971                     Actual prices                                               16.3                               15.0
1972                      (Actual price - E.E.C.                                     16.9                               15.5
(Estimated 3.2% increase - Ireland
1973                      (estimated 3% increase - E.E.C.
(1/6 E.E.C. - Ireland price difference eliminated          17.4                              16.2
1974                      (Estimated 3% increase - E.E.C.                            17.9                               16.9
(1/5 E.E.C. - Ireland price difference eliminated
1975                      (Estimated 3% increase - E.E.C.                            18.4                               17.6
(1/4 E.E.C. - Ireland price difference eliminated
1976                      (Estimated 3Y' increase - E.E.C.                           19.0                               18.4
(1/3 E,E.C. - Ireland price difference eliminated
1977                      (Estimated 3"- increase - E.E.C.                           19.6                               19.3
(1/2 E.E.C.   Ireland price difference eliminated
1977                      Price equalisation                                         20.2                               20.2
1/   In calcula.ing these prices the following assumptions were made,
1.  Irish S sarket prices will tend tc nove towards the established basic prices                                                                5
in the E.E.C.  In 1971 the Netherlands price and the basic price were similar and                                                              T 
Ireland like the Netherlands is a surplus producer.                                                                                             z X
2.  The E.E.C. basic price for pigimeat will be increased by 3% per annum.  This
is similar to the increases in the last two years, 2.8% in 1970/71 and 3.7% in 1971/72.
3.  Irish market prices will increase by 3.2' In 19722,the average increase for the
last three years.
*                  I t0



ANNEX 4
Page 1
IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing and Development
1.        The marketing and processing of sattie and pigs in Ireland has
developed on a free enterprise basis over many years. Cattle are bought
and sold mainly through a highly developed system of auction marts run by
farmers' organizations and cooperatives, and may be slaughtered for domestic
consumption or export mainly in carcass form, or exported live mainly as
forward stores for fattening in the United Kingdom (U.K.). The Irish
Livestock and Meat Commission (C.B.F.) was set up in 1969 by the Minister
for Agriculture and Fisheries to promote and develop exports of beef and
livestock. Its responsibilities, however, specifically exclude trading,
which is in the hands of the export slaughter firms. The principal promoter
and exporter of pigmeat, on the other hand, is the Pigs and Bacon Commission,
a State sponsored organization originally set up in 1939 but reconstituted
in 1961. No pigs are exported live from Ireland. Trade between Ireland
and the U.K. is governed by the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement which
came into operation on July 1, 1966.
2.        Long-term projections from various sources indicate a substantial
global deficit in all types of meat, especially beef and veal. In January,
1972, the FAO Committee on Commodity Problems, Intergovernmental Group on
Meat, projected that world demand will exceed production by almost 1.2 mil-
lion tons by 1980, based on 1970 prices. The FAO study projects that the
deficit of beef and veal in the enlarged EEC will be about 0.9 million tons
in 1980.
3.        As a member of the EEC, Ireland has no difficulties in disposing
of its production of beef, bacon, and pork and will likely strengthen its
position in the U.K. market, particularly with exports of carcass beef. The
present difficulties of obtaining sufficient supplies are reflected in the
action taken by the EEC in May 1972 when it temporarily suspended its duties
on imports of live cattle and calves and fresh chilled meat from third coun-
tries. Later in the year the duties were partially reimposed and in March,
1973 were half the normal rate, i.e. 10% on beef and 8% oni live cattle. Sus-
pension of all or part of the duties may relieve the market in the short run
but it will have little permanent effect, considering the worldwide shortage
of beef.
Cattle
4.        Cattle output in 1971 was around 1.54 million head which was 6%
above that in 1970. Some 240,000 head were slaughtered in abattoirs for
local consumption in 1971 and 708,000 head were slaughtered at meat export
is



ANNEX 4
Page _2
slaughter premises to provide 143,000 tons of chilled or frozen beef
exports. 100,000 tons of these exports were sold to the U.K. mainly in
chilled carcass form, 32,000 tons were sold to the USA in frozen boneless
form, and the remaining 11,000 tons were exported elsewhere (Para 15).
The returns from these exports amounted to E 59.2 million.
5.        At the same time, 588,000 store cattle (both heifers and steers)
and 4,100 fat cattle were exported live to the U.K.  2,500 fat cattle were
exported to other destinations, principally Continental Europe. Export re-
ceipts for these live sales amounted to E 58.6 millions. 'he sale of both
live and slaughtered cattle contributed to more than 60% of agricultural
exports and to over 20% of Ireland's total exports.
6.        British meat traders have long preferred home killed beef which
means a traditional bias in favor of Irish live store cattle rather than
dead meat expcrts.  After being fattened in the U.K. the Irish stock lose
their orignal identity and are competitive in U.K. whoicsale and other
markets with stock which are reared completely in the U.K. Cattle slaugh-
tered in Ireland and exported in carcass form, however, suffer a tradi-
tional penalty in U.K. wholesale markets to the extent of between i-p and
2p per lb carcass weight, or i 6.00 to  10.00 per carcass, compared with
stock which may have been exported live to the U.K. two or three months
previously. This price distinction tends to disappear at the retail level.
7.        The reasons for the price discrimination in the t.K. against
Irish beef are based to some extent on traditional concepts of quality.
Aided by a demand in the U.K. for good quality store stock and by deficiency
payments, it has been economically prudent to export good quality live
cattle.  The quality of Irish beef has improved markeily irn tecenr. years,
hiowever, and the continued presence of the penaltv differential may be
iainly attributed to poor marketing.  The breaking down of U.1K. whoiesaler
piaeudice against Irish beef remains a major challenge co the Irish fresh
meat trade.
Under the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement the principal
enjoyed by Irish farmers are:  guaranteed free access to Lhe U.K.
for Irish store cattle, sheep and lambs; a reeucticn from three to
'.9x mnfths in the fatteiting period after whfth T.-sh stor. cattle, sheep and
aunbs exported to Britain or Northern lrelanJ qualify for guarantee (deficiency)
N?Zments under the British Fat Stock CGuarantee S:heme; and the application
-i ese deficiency payments to agreed quantities uf icinass beef and carcass
tr  vci year.  On its part, the Irish Governm.ent undertook to use its best
to ensure that not less than 638,000 head of store cattle would
e cyported to the U.K. each year.
-j       W1hile total exports of cattle, both live end  cld, have been
Init-easing steadily, live exports have shown a declinin  trend in favor of
p rogressively increasing carcass beef trade in recent years.  The most
.partant .actor influencing this trend has been the export subsidy on



ANNEX 4
Page 3
carcass beef payable by the U.K. Exchequer on the first 25,000 tons exported
to the U.K. and by the Irish Exchequer on the remainder, whether shipped
to the U.K. or not.
10.       In 1971 a halt came to this trend as live cattle shipments in-
creased by 16% over 1970 and beef shipments rose by only 4%. The reason
for the shift was largely due to a change in the allocation of the export
subsidy.  In April 1971, to encourage larger live cattle sales in the spring
and early summer months, the Irish Government decided to scale down the
weekly subsidies which hitherto had been passed on to the export slaughter
houses in full except for the substraction of a small levy to support the
CBF. The differantial created by the Government was 1.25p per lb of carcass
beef. Meanwhile, a strong demand for beef in the U.K., coupled with an in-
crease in minimum import prices and reduced imports from South America, pushed
market prices close to guaranteed levels effecting thereby a reduction in
deficiency payments and the corresponding export subsidies given the Irish
meat exporters. In addition, British farmers were stocking up in anticipa-
tion of increased guaranteed prices and were paying more for imported store
cattle.
11.       The Irish meat exporters became very concerned as live shipments,
particularly to Northern Ireland, increased significantly. They argued that
the introduction of the subsidy differetitial placed them at a disadvantage
O    compared with the meat plants in Northern Ireland since the latter continued
to receive all of any subsidy being paid.  In January, 1972, the Irish Gov-
ernment agreed to reduce the differential by 1.00p per lb, bringing about
a parity with plants in Northern Ireland except for the remaining 0.25p per
lb which continues to support the CBF.
12.       The future of the live and dead trade in cattle exports is un-
certain. Ireland is obliged to continue a substantial supply of store
cattle to the U.K. under the Free Trade Area Agreement, and attempts to
eliminate the penalty differential for Irish carcass beef in U.K. wholesale
markets have thus far been unsuccessful. On the other hand, the entry into
the EEC of both the U.K. and Ireland will mean a phased dismantling of
deficiency payments by the end of 1977. This will put the store trade on
the same basis as the fat cattle trade and would also be a saving to the
Irish Exchequer in respect of the present export subsidy which in 1969/70
amounted to about b 1.0 million.
13.       The Government apparently has not defined a policy with regard to
the future of the live trade or dead trade. From an economic standpoint, it
would seem desirable for a large swing towards slaughter and export in carcass
(or processed) form. The Irish economy would thereby benefit from the value
added, the increased employment, and a more rational use of surplus slaughter
house capacity. On the other hand, the Government points out that so long as
U.K. wholesalers penalize Irish beef to the extent of about 2p per lb carcass
weight, the value added argument is marginal. This is hopefully a short
.    term consideration and the Government could take a more positive approach



ANNEX 4
Page 4
to encourage the fresh meat exporters, the CBF and others in the meat trade
to reduce or eliminate the traditional differential. Under EEC conditions
the situation is unlikely to change without better marketing, including sales
direct to retailers (e.g. supermarket chains), and with promotion for an
identified product through to the retail level.
14.       An improved system of marketing Irish beef in the U.K., and other
markets, would be incomplete without the introduction of classification and
grading of beef. It should then be to the advantage of all export slaughter
houses to pay more for better quality or less for poorer quality animals
for slaughter. To date Ireland has had no system of grading or classification
although some slaughter houses classify carcasses in order to help satisfy
demands of particular buyers. No differential payments for quality is made
at the time of purchase of the animals, however,
15.       Presently Ireland has 47 premises approved for slaughtering cattle
and sheep for exports of beef and lamb.  Twenty two of these premises also
slaughter pigs. Additionally, there are five small processing (non-slaughter-
ing) premises. A further 15 slaughter premises produce only 'aacon and/or
pork. Thouglh the slaughtering and processing premises are well distributed
around the country, there is a concentration in the vicinity of the main
seaports, particularly Around Dublin.  Considerable variation exists in the
size and product output of slaughter premises with about 10 of the premises                  0
accounting for soma 75% of the export trade.  Employment in the meat export
industry has been about 4,000 in recent years.  In the main, beef, mutton
and lamb for domestic consumption are slat.ghtered in municipally regulated
abattoirs.
16.       Export slaughter premises are generally up to top international
standards of hygiene and cleanliness. Imnestments have been made, however,
in anticipation of larger numbers of cattle for slaughter than have actually
materialized (Para 10). Many premises are now over capitalized in terms
of their current throughput and the fresh meat exporters have come under
considerable financial pressure.
17.       The boneless (manufacturing) beef trade with the USA, which is
Ireland's number two beef market absorbing about 21% of the export subsidy,
was not so attractive in 1971 as had been expected. Exports were adversely
affected in the second half of the year by the uncertainty surrounding
the value of the dollar and by the American dock disputes in November and
December. Additional markets generated for Irish beef in 1971 were Israel
and the U.S. forces overseas which, between them, accounted for about 11,000
tons or 8% of all beef exports.
Pigs
18.       With net ntarketings of 2.2 million pigs in 1971, Irish production
achieved its third consecutive record level; an 8% increase over 1970 and
a 9% increase over 1969.  Prices for finished pigs exceeded the 1970 level                   0
by almost 6% averaging E 15.49 per cwt deadweight, and Producers received
a record i 41 million for their sales.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
0          19.        The level of net marketings may be a little overstated because
of smuggling from Northern Ireland. With the onset of the new feedgrain
year, guaranteed prices in the Republic were increased to reflect higher
prices for Government supported feedgrains.  Meanwhile, guaranteed prices
for pigs in Northern Ireland reflected the lower levels of world market
prices.
20.       In 1971, approximately 45% of all pigs slaughtered were exported,
of which 28% went as bacon and 16% went as pork (Appendix 4). The principal
market for both products is the U.K. although some 4% of production is sold
as pork to Continental Europe. Under the U.K. Bacon Sharing Understanding,
Ireland's annual quota (1971/72) is 28,180 tons, or a weekly average of
542 tons, which is just over 4% of all bacon supplies to the U.K., including
U.K. domestic production. The value of total exports of pigmeat, including
offals and other products, amounted to +16 million in 1971.
21.       Under 1961 legislation, the Pigs and Bacon Commission, which is
a statutory body, became legally required to purchase and sell all bacon
from bacon factories. The Commission, by voluntary agreement with the
factories, also purchases and markets all exports of pork. Its responsibi-
lities include the selection and grading of carcasses for export at all
processing factories. The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries fixes
minimum guaranteed prices to be paid by factories to farmers for the two top
grades of pigs and also the guaranteed prices to be paid by the Commission
to the factories for these grades.
22.       The marketing of pigs is financed from two sources:  (a) a levy
of about b 1.00 on each baconer, from which about 15p is taken to cover
administrative expenses of the Pigs and Bacon Commission: and (b) the
Exchequer provides funds to support export sales of bacon. In 1971, the
Exchequer provided i 2.4 million to support exports valued at E 16 million.
This corresponds to a subsidy of about E 4.20 per baconer exported or
i 1.25 per pig over all pigs slaughtered.
23.       The Pigs and Bacon Commission operates principally in three
promotional areas in Britain; Scotland, Harlech and Lancashire. Combined
sales of bacon and pork in these regions total about 80% of all Irish sales
to the U.K. Promotional efforts have been particularly successful in
Scotland where Irish bacon is the brand leader over all imported bacon,
including Danish. Irish pork in the U.K. is considered equal in quality
to Danish pork and commands a premium over British pork.
24.       As in the case of the beef, mutton and lamb expcrt slaughter
plants, there is over capitalization and excess capacity in the bacon
factories (Para 15). The pig industry is presently attempting to rationalize
the number of factories and their throughput by the selfimposition of levies
on the more efficient factories to enable some of the less efficient factories
to close down.
0



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Conclusions                                                                               0
25.       Ireland's entry to the EEC is likely to present umparalleled
opportunities for the disposal of its beef and pigmeat. The U.K. market
should continue to be the main outlet for both products although pork
exports to France, Eastern Europe and to the USA have considerable potential.
In both Ireland and the U.K., under EEC conditions, the consumer price of
beef and red meat generally will increase substantially relative to pigmeat
prices. It is therefore unlikely that the expected rise in the price of
pork and bacon will significantly affect consumption.
26.       A critical problem for Ireland's beef exporters to overcome is
the traditional lp - 2p per lb carcass weight penalty differential against
Irish beef in wholesale markets such as Smithfield. Elimination of this bias
will require a concerted effort by the meat export trade together with
active participation of Government. Notwithstanding Ireland's obligation
under the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement to endeavor to supply
638,000 head of store cattle to the U.K. annually, Government policy,
particularly under EEC conditions, should be directed at expansion of the
dead trade rather than the live trade. A thorough and comprehensive
examination of all aspects of beef and pigmeat marketing, as well as the
live store cattle trade, would help the formation of appropriate policies.
At the present time, however, with strongly differing points of view on
contentions issues, such a study is unlikely to be undertaken.
27.       According to a 1972 OECD Economic Survey on Ireland and its then
likely entry to the EEC, the higher prices and expanded markets of the EEC
could lead to a 30-40% increase in the volume of Ireland's gross agricultural
output by the end of the transition period. This means a 4-1/2% annual rate
of increase compared with 2-1/2% registered over the 1960's. Moreover, the
higher EEC prices could raise the increase in the value of output to over
5% per year.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Slaughterings of Cattle and Sheep at Meat Export Premises 1960-1972
Cattle  Numbers
Year              Cows         Other  Cattle              Total                Sheep No.
1960             245,000           131,800               376,800                547,800
1961             214,700           256,200               470,900                439,800
*        1962             269,500           133,600               403,100                809,600
1963             230,600           178,300               408,900                895,600
1964             160,200          141,100                301,300                849,500
1965             162,500           149,500               312,000                782,600
1966             255,700           173,800               429,500                940,900
1967             306,800          445,900                752,700                744,600
1968             267,900          353,200                621,100                736,200
1969             254,200          376,800                631,800                677,200
1970             232,370          465,188                697,578                549,000
1971             260,000          448,000                708,000                850,000
1972 1/          270,000          460,000                730,000                745,000
1/ Estimated



ANNEX 14
Appendix 2
IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Exports of Fresh Beef, Canned Beef, Mutton
and Lamb in the Years 1960 to 1972
Beef (Fresh - Chilled or Frozen)
Mutton
Year         U.K.        U.S.A.         Other       Total       Canned        and
Deetinations                Beef         Lamb
(000 tons)
1960         15.2         25.2          6.8         47.2          8.9         9.6
1961         32.8         33.2          7.5         73.5          8.0         7.3
1962         20.6         33.3          5.0         58.9          5.7        15.1
1963         16.9         32.2         11.6         60.7          5.1        15.4
1964         19.5          7.0         25.5         52.0          4.5        14.7
1965         28.4          4.2         21.6         54.8         4.1         14.0
1966         41.5         18.7          8.7         68.9          4.2        17.2
1967        108.2         34.2          3.3        t45.7          4.3        13.2
I 1968         89.1          25.1         1.1         115.3         5.1         12.5
1969         84.8         31.9          3.1        119.8          3.5        11.2
1970        101.5         29.2          7.4        138.1          3.5         7.8
1971        100.0         32           11          143            3.5        14.0
i972 1/     103.0         36            8          147            3.5        12.0
Estimated



ANNEX 4
Appendix 3
*                                 ~~~~~~~~~~IREIAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Exports of Live Cattle and Beef, 1968-1971
1968        1969       1970       1971
Live Fat Cattle (Nos.)
to U.K.                              10,609       3,084      2,137      4,098
Elsewhere                             5,946       2,064    10,116       2,510
0             Store Cattle (Nos. - all to U.K.)    591,515    532,799   501,411   587,861
Total Live Cattle                607,870    537,947   513,664   594,469
Beef (tons)
Fresh/Chilled                         n.a.       n.a.      106,844   106,861
Frozen                                n.a.       n.a.       31,303    38,670
Total                            115,300    119,800   138,147   145,531
0~~~~~. .         



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4t
IRE:AND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Product/Market Disposal of Pigs Purchased by
Licensed Curers - 1970 & 1971
1971                               1970
No. of  Pigs  As % of total                          As % of total
No.____of___P___s__slaughtered    No. ofPigs          slaughtered
Bacon - Home Market          1,030,000           49%             1,003,300             52%
Export Bacon Market            592,000           28%               574,000             29%
Home Pork Market               108,000            5%               100,000              5%
Export Pork Market             332,000           16%               204,000             11%
By-Products, etc.               44,400            2%                60,000              3%
Total                        2,106,400          100%             1,941,300            100%



ANNEX 5
Page 1
IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Banking System and Agricultural Credit
I. Background
1.        The Irish banking and financial sector has changed greatly in
the last ten years, with the process of change continuing. The restructuring
of older banks, the establishment of a large number of new banks, the emer-
gence of financial markets and the increasing scope and strength of the
Central Bank are notable elements of the change along with, of importance to
agriculture, rapid growth in the role of the Agricultural Credit Corporation.
2.        Banking has for long been a developed industry in Ireland.  The
principal Irish (Associated) commercial banks were established between 1783
and 1862 and developed an extensive branch network somewhat similar to that
in Scotland or England and Wales. The use of cheques is widespread, with
some two-thirds of money holdings being credit balances on current account.
3.        In addition to the Central Bank, the banking system is made up of
a number of different financial institutions. These include three types
of banking institutions which differ particularly with respect to collection
of deposits and the extension of credit: the Associated Banks, the Non-
Associated Banks and the Trustee and Post Office Savings Banks. In addition,
there are hire-purchase finance companies, building societies, assurance
companies and the Government sponsored Industrial Credit Corporation and
Agricultural Credit Corporation.
4.        The foregoing banks and financial institutions have total loans,
exclusive of loans to Government, of about L 860 million outstanding within
the State. Some L 110 million, equal to 13% of the total, is to agriculture.
The Associated Banks hold 70% of the agricultural total; the Agricultural
Credit Corporation, 25%; and Industrial Banks and hire-purchase finance
companies, 5%. Agricultural lending by the other institutions is negligible.
5.        Loans to agriculture from other sources stand at an estimated
E 48 million (Irish Land Commission, b 28 million; merchants and cooperatives,
i 15 million; County Councils, L 6 million), bringing the sector's total
liabilities to L 159 million. With assets valued at some 1i 2,360 million,
the sector's debt/asset ratio is no higher than 7%; one of the lowest in
the world.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
II. Institutions
The Central Bank of Ireland
6.        The Central Bank is a relatively new institution.  It came into
existence in 1943, under provisions of the Central Bank Act of 1942, re-
placing and assuming the functions of the Currency Commissicn with respect
to provision and redemption of currency.
7.        The Central Bank is a public corporation with authorized capital
of h 40,000. Its paid-up capital of L 24,000 is entirely owned by Govern-
ment, paid from the Central Fund by the Minister of Finance.
8.        Administratively, the Central Bank is under a Board of Directors
consisting of the Governor and not to exceed eight members. The Governor is
appointed by the President; the Directors by the Minister for Finance.
Until passage of the 1971 Central Bank Act (para 11), three members were
appointed from a panel nominated by the Associated Banks. The remainder,
not to exceed five and not including more than two in the permanent service
of the State, were appointed directly by the Minister for Finance. The
1971 Act reduced the number of directors representing the Associated Banks
from three to two. It also eliminated the panel system of nomination and
provided that the two banking directors will be directly appointed by the
Minister for Finance.  The total number of directors remained unchanged.
9.        In addition to establishing the Central Bank as the principal
currency authority, the 1942 Act gave it general responsibility for
maintaining the integrity of the currency and for controlling credit in the
interests of the people as a whole. Until the 1960's, however, its functions
were largely confined to provision and redemption of currency. During the
1960's its role with respect to monetary activities and control of the
banking system increased, but with limitations which were rot corrected
until passage of the Central Bank Act of 1971, effective September 1, 1971.
10.       Prior to September, 1971, the Central Bank had only limited powers
(beyond moral suasion and the monitoring of bank operations through collection
of statistics) in licensing and supervising banks. Its powers were greatly
extended by the 1971 Act, which gives it the authority to license banks
and to set criteria and conditions for licensing. The Act requires banks to
maintain deposits with the Central Bank; varying between b 20,000 and
b 500, .00 in proportion to the size of the bank's deposits. It also gives
the Central Bank the power to set and use liquidity ratios as an instrument
o-: -xedit control; with 10% (capital and reserves of risk assets) having been
set as the minimum ratio at the present time.
II.       The Central Bank has the statutory authority, with the enactment
of the 1971 Act, to serve as the channel for Bank funds to the Project;
to extend refinancing privileges to the participating banks; and to deter-
mine and supervise the financial adequacy of the participating banks.  The
Central Bank does not have supervisory authority over the Agricultural



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Credit Corporation, however, which is directly under the control of the
Ministry for Finance.
12.       The Central Bank has (Marcl 31, 1971) paid up capital of L 24,000
(US$60,000), and reserves of E 25.4 million (US$63.5 million). It made a
net operating profit (before reserves and payments to the Exchequer) of
b 11.7 million (US$29.3 million) in 1971, with L 9.2 million (US$23 million)
of operating profits designed for payment to the Exchequer (Table 1).
The Associated Banks
13.       Eight commercial banks were designated "Associated Banks" in the
1942 Central Bank Act. These, together with the Chase and Bank of Ireland
(International) Ltd., comprise the membership of the Dublin Bankers'
Clearing Committee. Hence, the term "Associated Banks" is practically
equivalent to "clearing banks" and "commercial banks" in the sense these
terms are used in Britain.
14.       Two of the Associated Banks are subsidiaries of British clearing
banks: Northern Bank Limited, is a subsidiary of the Midland Bank Limited;
the Ulster Bank Limited is a subsidiary of Westminster Bank Limited. Both
Northern and Ulster have most of their branches in Northern Ireland and
together account for no more than 10% of Associated Bank activities in the
Republic.
15.       The other six Associated Banks, through a series of mergers in
1965 and 1966, are organized as two domestically-controlled groups: the
Bank of Ireland Group and the Allied Irish Banks Limited. The groups are
structured in effect as holding companies, each with its own capital structure
and Board of Directors and each with hire-purchase and other financial sub-
sidiaries. To this time, the individual Associated Banks have retained their
original names and identities, but these are being replaced by the group
identification. The organization is as follows:
Bank of Ireland Group
Bank of Ireland
The Hibernian Bank Limited
The National Bank of Ireland Limited
Allied Irish Banks Limited
The Munster and Leinster Bank Limited
Provincial Bank of Ireland Limited
The Royal Bank of Ireland Limited
16.       The Associated Banks dominate the business of retail commercial
banking Ireland. They have an extensive countrywide network of some 640
branches, equipping them for dealing with a widely-dispersed clientele.
They hold virtually all (over 96%) of the current accounts in the State
and thus are responsibile for nearly all of the overdraft lending.  Their
collective domestic current and deposit account balances have been increasing



ANNEX 5
Page  4
and as of February 15, 1972, stood (exclusive of Government) at i 865 million,
with 30% of the total in current accounts, as shown below:
Dec. 31 (E million)      Feb. 15, 1972
1968  1969  1971        b mill.  Percent
Current Accounts      257   267   277           257       30
Deposit Accounts      429   484   599           608       70
Total            686   751   876           865      100
17.       Over 80% of the deposit account balances are in accounts under
i 25,000, and are at present paid interest at the rate of 3.0%.  Accounts
of over b 25,000 are paid at the rate of 4.0%. The rates gradually dropped
to the present level in December, 1971 from 4.5% and 6.0%, respectively,
in December, 1969. The first i 70 per annum of interest earned by an
individual (I 140 by a married couple) on deposit accounts with Associated
Banks is tax deductible, this exemption also applying to ordinary accounts
with the Post Office and Trustee Savings banks.
18.       Total Associated Bank advances outstanding (exclusive of Govern-
ment) have increased and in February, 1972 stood at E 446 million within
the State.  Advances to agriculture stood at E 75.6 million or 16.9% of the
total, compared with E 62.1 million and 14.7% of the total two years earlier,
reportedly reflecting increased interest in agricultural lending by the
commercial banks.  Deta4led information on the activities of the individual
banks has not been subject to disclosure. It is estimated, however, that
the two major groups, Bank of Ireland and Allied Irish, hold some 70% of
the total advances to agriculture.
19.       While published data on agricultural lending by the Associated
Banks were not available, it was reported that the average size of agricul-
rural loan is small, with loans in the range of b 2,000 to E 2,500 predomi-
aating. In normal practice legal charges (mortgages) on land or chattels
are not taken; instead, hand deposit with the bank of the title deeds
Lo the property is preferred. Guarantors are frequently required when
other security is inadequate. Stock and share certificates, deposit
aiccount passbooks and life assurance policies are also accepted as
collateral.
Agricultural loans are administered through branch offices of
the banks.  Managers have discretionary authority ranging from E 2,000 to
5,0i00 dlependent upon the size of the branch and the manager's experience.
AOp,lications for larger loans are referred to the central office for
decision.
21,       All of the Associated Banks employ agricultural specialists or
officers (A.0.'s) to analyze loan applications at the request of the branch
iaanagers.  Their numbers are small; hence they are involved in only the
i.rger and more complex loans. The Allied Irish Group has four A.O.'s;
.he Bank of Ireland Group has five. Both groups indicated wIllingness to



ANNEX 5
Page 5
add staff as necessary to enable their participation in the proposed
Project.
22.       With the encouragement of the Central Bank, the Associated Banks
have developed a system of term lending, representing a major change in
lending practices, which became effective April 1, 1972. The Central Bank
favored the change as one which would promote better use of financial
resources, and, particularly, one which would make credit management more
precise and effective as an instrument of monetary policy.
23.       Prior to April 1, virtually all Associated Bank lending was by
overdraft. Permissions (overdraft authorizations) were negotiated, both
as to amount and repayment schedule. This committed bank funds as a line
of credit to the borrower, who within his authorization could draw down
and repay at his own discretion. In practice, many authorizations were
not drawn down; others were exceeded; many were extended beyond the scheduled
repayment date.
24.       The new term lending system will gradually replace outstanding
overdrafts and applies to all new loans made after April 1, 1972. Under the
new system, overdrafts continue to be available as seasonal working accounts,
where the amounts overdrawn are paid within a year. Term loans are granted
for specific purp,.3es and are repayable by negotiated amounts within fixed
.   ~Eperiods.
Th,.e ordinary overdraft rate applicable to agriculture in March,
19Y2, was 7.75%.  It had gradually fallen to this level in December, 1971,
from 9.5% in December, 1969 (Table 2). The term lending system sets a new
rate strucLure, with the rate varying according to the term of loan and the
category of borrower. It may also vary during the currency of the borrowings
in accordance with general economic conditions and at the discretion of
the lender. The rates applicable to agriculture on loans made from April
1, 1972 are:
Overdraft and term loans
for one year or less                7.25%
Term Loans:  1-3 years               7.75%
3-5 years              8.25%
5-7 years              8.75%
Loans over 7 years                   9.25%
26.       All of the Associated Banks, and particularly the two major
groups, expressed interest in participating as on-lenders in the proposed
Project. The Central Bank accepts the present auditing procedures and
standards of these banks as adequate and it has no reservations in that
regard. Consolidated profit and loss statements and balance sheets for
O       the two Associated Bank Groups are shown in Tables 3 and 4.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Post Office and Trustee Savings Banks
27.       These banks compete with the Associated Banks and other financial
institutions in the field of small savings: with December, 1971 deposit
balances of nearly b 200 million. Interest rates of 4% are paid on ordinary
accounts; 6.5% on investment accounts (Table 2). Depositors have the same
exemption from income tax on interest earned on ordinary accounts as with
the Associated Banks. They make no loans in that all their funds are
made available to the Minister for Finance.
Non-Associated Banks: Merchant and North American
28.       There are six IMerchant banks with domestic deposits in February
of i 93 million and five North American banks with E 61 million.  All con-
centrate on wholesale banking, that is the taking of large deposits and
the extension of large loans usually to corporate clients. Their interest
rates are not published, but the Central Bank reported that, partly because
of the types of loans they make, they have to offer relatively high rates
of interest to attract depsoits. They have no significant branch network
and are not involved in lending to agriculture.
Induistrial Banks and Hire-Purchase Companies
29.       These institutions, collectively, account for most of the instal-
ment, credit and hire-purchase agreements in Ireland.  It is estimated that                   0
such advancs  to agriculture now aggregate to between h 5.0 and i 6.0 mil-
lion, mainlv to finance farm machinery and equipment.  Repayments are com-
monly up to three years for farm machinery and equipment with interest
payable on the fuli amount of the original advance for the total period.
The simple annual equivalent rate is around 20%.
Building Societies
30.       Lending activities of the building societies are restricted to
mortgage loans, primarily on residence and urban construction. They
compete with other institutions for savings, however, with shares and
deposits of k 103 million at the close of 1971. Share accounts are paid
interest at 5.5% after deduction of income tax; the mortgage loan rate is
9% (Table 2).
~ooperative and Merchants
31.       Ireland does not have a system of agricultural credit cooperatives
in which the extension of credit is a stated purpose of the societies and
in which a mechanism exists for assembling and on-lending funds. Credit is
extended to farmers by cooperatives, as well as by private merchants, but
largely as an accommodation to finance the purchase of feeds, seed, fertilizers
and other seasonal requirements from the cooperative or merchant. Such
seasonal borrowing is reported to be common practice among farmers, and this
is frequently in addition to borrowings from one or more credit agencies.



ANNEX 5
Page  7
32.       Charges for the use of cooperative and merchant credit vary, in
part with the lender't competitive sales position. It does not appear,
however, that usurious rates, direct or indirect through price discrimination,
are coimonly charged. To the contrary, cases were cited where overdraft
borrowings at 7.75% were on-lent at no interest and with no price-penalty.
33.       The volume of lending to farmers by cooperatives and merchants
can only be estimated in that little information is reported. A 1970 O.E.C.D.
report estimated the amount outstanding from these sources as of December,
1968 at b 15 million. A Farming Sector Balance Sheet for 1971, distributed
by the Bank of Ireland Group, included the same estimate. In that most of
the credit extended by these sources is short-term, for the purchase of
seasonal inputs and repaid from sales receipts it is likely that the annual
volume of credit is greater than the estimated outstanding balance.
The Agricultural Credit Corporation
34.       The Agricultural Credit Corporation (ACC) was established under
the Agriultural Credit Act of 1927. It is headed by a Board of Directors
of (including the Chairman) not less than three, nor more than seven members,
of whom a majority must be nominated by the Minister for Finance and the
remainder elected by the shareholders. Effectively, all are named by the
Minister as the sole shareholder of the Corporation. One elected and one
nominated director must retire at each annual meeting, but are eligible
for re--lection.  Of the present directors, one is from the meatlindustry,
one is an assurance representative and four are farmers.
35.       ACC operations are headed by the Chairman who is also chief executive
officer. Next in line is the Secretary with all of the principal departments,
except Securities and Administration under an Assistant Secretary, as his
direct responsibility. The structure of the organization is shown in Chart 1.
36.       The ACC is authorized to lend for any purpose which in its opinion
will or is likely to, benefit agriculture, and to lend on such terms as it
deems fit, except that loans secured solely by land cannot exceed two-thirds
of market value. It can operate hire-purchase facilities; receive and
accept deposits (but not current accounts); issue bonds; raise or borrow
money in any manner it sees fit (to a maximum outstanding of b 25 million 1/);
and, in general, engage in virtually any other activity in support of its
agricultural lending function.
37.       The authorized share capital of the ACC is i 10 million.  Issued
and fully paid share capital is i 6.75 million; all held by the Minister
for Finance.
1/   But limit will have to be raised.



ANNEX 5
Page  8
38.       Until recent years the Exchequer was the principal source of capital.
Exchequer funding, by informal agreement between the ACC and the Department
of Finance, is normally divided equally between share capital and repayable
advances. Other sources include mortgage stock, Farm Credit Bonds, deposit
accounts and the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (the last in support
of special schemes such as grain storage financing).
39.       One of ACC's policy goals, although not formally stated, is to
become fiscally independent of Government. It is carrying on an aggressive
program to increase its deposit accounts and to substitute deposits for
Exchequer advances as the main source of incremental capital to finance its
expanding lending program. The amounts oustanding from different sources
at the 30th April close of the last three fiscal years show the changing
pattern of funding:
1970     1971      1972 (Est.)
---- -- -(E   'o00) ---------
Issued Share Capital                       6,748    6,748    6,748
Exchequer Advances                         7,700    7,700    7,700
Mortgage Stock                                766       766      766
Farm Credit Bonds                          1,187    1,001        877
Deposit Accounts                           7,273   11,486   21,123
Other                                         718       774      800
Total                                     24,392   28,475   38,014
Loans made (period)                         7,316    8,556   17,340
Total Loans Outstanding                   24,880   28,373   36,750
40.       The Corporation's cost of capital is relatively high with direct
financial charges, exclusive of dividends, taking up 63.5% of gross revenues
in 1970 and 68.8% in 1971 (Table 7 ). For the 11 months ending March 31,
1972 financial charges increased to over 77% or revenues and were estimated
at that level for the full fiscal year. Current rates paid on capital are:
Exchequer advances, 9%; Farm Credit Bonds, 6-3/4% plus a capital bonus of
2% when held for five years; deposit accounts from 5% on seven days' notice
to 7-1/2% on 12 months notice of withdrawal. Dividends on paid-in capital
are paid to the Exchequer as a residual claimant on net profits. Annual
dividends of 4% were paid in 1968, 1969 and 1970. With lower net profits,
the dividend was reduced to 3% in 1971 and was scheduled to be reduced
again to 2% for the year ending April 30, 1972.
41.        The stated policy of the ACC since 1965 has been to lend to farmers
and cooperatives only for productive purposes. The only major restrictions
in current practice are that loans for the purchase of land are limited
to b 10,000; credit for refunding debt can represent no more than "a
reasonable proportion" of the total from ACC; and loans are not made for
automobile purchase.  Otherwise, loans are made for almost all purposes
and under a variety of different plans and terms, including hire-purchase.
'nie trend and present status of aggregate lending activities, including
hire-purchase advances, are:



ANNEX 5
Page 9
Loans and H.P.       Amount Outstanding
Advances Made           at  Year-End
Year Ending               Number  Amount
April 30                          (E '000)          (   000)
1968                   6,080    4,493              20,133
1969                   6,114    5,997              22,076
1970                   6,226    7,626              24,880
1971                   6,611    8,556              28,373
1972 (Est.)            N.A.    17,340              36,750
42.       Half of the loans, including hire-purchase advances, made by the
ACC during the year ending April 30, 1971 were for amounts less than b 500.
The trend is to larger loans, as shown below, but the average size of all
loans is still comparatively small:
Year Ending April 30
1967            1969            1971
Amount                       b 3,851,368    b 5,997,161    I 8,556,574
Number:
Under L 500                      5,579           3,341           3,306
L 500 to L 1,000                 1,331           1,680           1,595
b 1,000 and over                   611           1,093           1,710
All Sizes                        7,521           6,114           6,611
Average Amount                 i   512         b   981         L6 1,294
43.       Over the 11 month period ending March 31, 1972, the ACC made 6,220
loans for a total of i 14.35 million exclusive of hire-purchase advances.
These were distributed by term as follows:
Short       Medium        Long
5 years       5 to 10     over 10
and under       years       years         Total
Number of Loans                      4,788           412        1,020        6,220
Percent of Total                     77%            7%          16%          100%
Amount of Loans                L 8,736,665   L 1,188,905   L 4,425,231  1i 14,350,801
Percent of Total                     61%            8%          21%          100%
Average Amount of Loan              6 1,825      i 2,886        h 4,338        L 2,307
44.       The purposes accounting for the highest percentages of the finance
O       extended under the different terms of loan (para 43) were:



ANNEX 5
Page 10
Shorter Term                              Percent
Livestock                                 60.6
Working Capital                            9.6
Grain                                      8.1
Other                                     21.7
Medium Term
Buildings (Other than dwellings)          38.9
Livestock                                 21.7
Funding debts                             11.1
Land purchase                              7.7
Other                                     20.6
Long Term
Buildings (Other than dwellings)          30.4
Dwellinghouses                            25.3
Land Purchase                             22.6
Funding Debts                             13.6
Other                                      8.1
45.       The preferred security for ACC loans is a first charge on land,
although second charges on land and other types of security (chattel mortgages,
personal guarantors and mortgages of live assurance policies, stocks and
shares) are accepted, and some smaller, short-term loans are unsecured.
Large loans and loans of any amount for terms longer than five years are
all secured. Of the total amount loaned (exclusive of hire-purchase)
during the year ending April 30, 1971, 42% was secured by first charges on
land; an additional 12% by second charges. Clearing titles and completion
of land charges as security has been a time-consuming process, often resulting
in one to three month delays in processing loans. Attention it being given
to revision of security requirements and procedures with a view to reducing
the delays.
46.       The Corporation's ordinary lending rate is 8-1/2%, plus handling a
one-time handling fee of from 1/2% to 1%. A rate of 9-1/2%, plus handling
fee, is charged on loans for land purchase and dwellinghouse contruction
and on loans to merchants, cooperative societies and companies. Conces-
sional rates of 6-1/2% and 7% are charged on certain small loans and on
loans under various special schemes in which ACC participates, but the
total amount loaned at the lower rates is small. Charges on hire-purchase
advances, which make up some one-tenth of the total lending, range from 6% to
7%, dependent upon repayment schedule; thus yielding an effective return
co the ACC of 12% to 15%.
47.       In the administration of its lending program, the ACC employs a
staff of 17 area agricultural offices (AO's) under the supervision of a
chief agricultural officer (GAO).  The CAO and the two of the AO's are
located at the Dublin headquarters and the other staff are located in 13                     0
area offices in provincial centres throughout the country. The CAO and



ANNEX 5
Page 11
11 of the AO's are unversity graduates in agricultural science and most
have a background of experience with the Farm Advisory Service. The AO's
are directly responsible to the CAO, although it is planned to establish
an intermediate structure of regional officers to control operations of the
area offices which will be gradually extended to cover the country on a
countrywide basis.
48.       The main responsibilities of the AO's are to solicit business,
both loan and deposit; to work with applicants in completing loan applications
consisting of a statement of amount, purpose and security and a financial
statement; to do field inspections to verify information supplied on the
loan applications; and to forward the completed applications to headquarters
for processing and disposition. The AO's discretionary authority is limited
to the authority to recommend approval of loans to headquarters.
49.       It is reported that the AO's work closely with the County
Farm Advisory Officers who serve as a source of contacts with prospective
borrowers with whom they have developed farm investment plans. Little
comprehensive farm development planning is or can be done by the ACC area
officers who, in addition to their other duties, annually complete 400 or
more loan applications.
September 25, 1972






Annex 5
Table 1
IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Financial Statements of
Central Bank, March 31, 1971
(million pounds)
A. BALANCE SHEET
Assets                                      Liabilities
Cash and Balances                 5.5      Government Accounts           46.5
Call Money                      159.0      Bankers' Accounts            111.7
Bills Rediscounted               17.4      Other Accounts                 0.6
Gold                              0.6       IMF Obligations              48.8
IMF: Quota                       50.4      Other liabilities             48.8
Drawing Rights              11.0
CapitaI and Reserv'es
Government Investments:                    Capital anJ General
Foreign                    23.1       Reserve                       16.9
Irish                      19.5
Currency Reserve              20.6
Other Investments                 3.3
Premises                          0.9
Other Assets                      3.2
Total                           293.9      Total                        293.9
B. FINANCIAL OPERATING STATEMENT
Income                                     Expenses
Interest                         23.5      Interest                      11.0
Other Receipts                    0.2      Salaries and Wages              0.4
Other Expenses                 0.6
Sub-Total                     12.0
General Reserve                2.4
Depreciation Account           0.1
Net Profit                     .9.2
Total                            23.7      Total                          23.7
I/ Of which paid-incapital is L0.024 million (L24,000)
Source: Central Bank



ANNEX 5
Table 2
IRELAND                                                                0
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Interest Rates in Ireland
---------------   Percent 
December     December      December      March
1969         1970          1971        1972
Central Bank
Official Discount Rate                8.25           7.31         4.81        4.81
Government Security Market
8 Years to Maturity                   9.82           9.37         7.29        7.19
15 Years to Maturity                  9.71           9.86         8.48        8.27
Associated Banks
Deposit Accounts 1/
Under*b25,000                       4.50          4.50          3.00        3.00-
*25,000 and over                    6.00           6.00          4.00       4.00
Ordinary Overdraft (Agr.)             9.50           9.50         7.75        7.75 -
Agricultural Credit Corporation
Deposit Accounts
7  days' notice                     n.a.          n.a.          5.00        5.00
12 monthst notice                   8.00          8.00          7.50        7.50
Loars /
Ordinary rate                       8.50           8.50         8.50        8.50
For land purchase                   n.a.          n.a.          9.50        9.50
Building Societies
Share Accounts  4/                    5.50           5.50         5.50        5.50
Mortgage Loans                        9.00           9.00         9.00        9.00
Post Office and Trustee Savings
Banks
Ordinary Accounts  1/                 4.00           4.00         4.00        4.00
Investment Accounts                   6.50          6.50          6.50        6.50
1/  First b70 interest (t140 for married couple) not subject to income tax.
2/  Under term lending, effective April 1, 1972, rate to agriculture ranges
from 7.25% on one year or less overdraft, to 9.25% on loans over 7 years.
3/  Subject to one-time service fee of k7. to 17.
4/  Rates indicated are paid after income tax has been deducted.
Source: Central Bank and Agricultural Credit Corporation.
July 13, 1972



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Financial Statements of                    1/
Allied Irish Banks Limited and Subsidiary Companies, March 31, 1971 -
(Million Pounds)
A. BALANCE SHEET
Assets                                                                Liabilities
Cash and Balances at Banks                                 51.0        Interests of Minority Shareholders                    0.5
Money at Call and Short Notice                                        Notes in Circulation                                   3.2
including Balance with Central Bank                       68.8       Deposit, Current and Other Accounts                  480.3
Exchequer Bills                                            15.8       Proposed Final Dividend                                0.3
Exchequer Notes                                             7.0       Acceptances and Endorsements                           4.8
Quotes Securities:
Government                                                59.8     Capital and Reserves
Others                                                     1.7
Unquoted Securities                                         0.6       Capital Issued                                         7.7
Central Bank Certificates of Deposit                       13.1       Reserves                                               8.5
Loans and Advances                                        277.5       Profit and Loss Accounts                               0.6
Premises                                                    5.9
Other Assets                                                ,7
TOTAL                                                     505.9                                                            505.9
B. PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT    2/
Income                                                     n.a.      Expenses                                               n.a.
Net Profit                                               2.6
1/  Fiscal year ends December 3.1.  Due to closure of Associated Banks by strike from May 1970, preparation of statements was
postponed to March 31, 1971.  Operating results are for a 15 month period.
2/  Disclosure of Income and Expense Accounts has not been required of the Associated Banks.                                                  a 
mS  >
Source: Allied Irish Banks Limited



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Financial Statements of
Bank of Ireland Group, March 31, 1971. -/
(Million Pounds)
A. BALANCE SHEET
Assets                                                                  Liabilities
Cash and Balances at Banks                              34.9            Interest of Minority Shareholders                      1.3
Call Money                                              73.4            Loan Stocks                                           7.2
Exchequer Bills                                         46.2            Notes in Circulation                                  3.2
Exchequer Notes                                          8.1           Government Accounts                                   27,7
Quoted Securities                                                       Deposit, Current and Other Accounts                 518.0
Government                                            54.3           Proposed Final Dividend                                0.6
Other                                                  6.0           Acceptances and Endorsements                           2.1
Unquoted Securities                                      3.6
Central Bank Certificates of Deposit                    12.5         Capital and Reserves
Loans and Advances                                     287.5
Transit Items                                           37.8            Capital Issued                                        11.2
Premises                                                14.7           Revenue Reserve                                        4.62
Other Assets                                             2.1
TOTAL                                                    581.1          TOTAL                                                  581.1
B., PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT !
Income                                                   n.a.           Expenses                                              n.a.
Net Profit                                               2.1
1/  Fiscal year ends December 31.  Due to closure of Associated Banks by strike from May, 1970, preparation of statements was
postponed to March 31, 1971.  Operating results are for a 15 month period.
2/  Disclosure of Income and Expense Accounts has not been required of The Associated Banks.                                                mx
Source: Bank of Ireland Group



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Annual Balance Sheet
Agricultural Credit Corporation, 1967-1971
(Pcunds '000)
ASSETS                                                1967         1968        1969         1970         1971
Cash                                                    1            1            1           1            1
Short-Term Deposits                                     -            -           -            -          500
Sundry                                                 27           32          33           38           43
Loans and Advances                                 18,249       20,133      22,076       24,880      28,373
Securities and Mortgage Stock                         505          399         377          378          377
Buildings and Equipment                               127           96         100          155          220
Miscellaneous                                           57          50          44           38           31
Total Assets                                       18,966       20,711      22.631       25,490       29,545
LIABILITIES
Deposit Accounts and Farm Credit Bonds              6,212        6,530       6,732        8,460       12,487
Exchequer Advances                                  6,000        6,550       7,648        7,700        7,700
Mortgage Stock                                       1,766         766          766         766          766
Department of Agriculture Advances                       -           -            -         451          425
Bank Overdraft                                          97         358         487          267          350
Income Tax and Provisions                             112          122          167         197          183
Other Liabilities                                      247         239          248         284          282
CAPITAL
Paid-In Capital                                     4,048        5,598       6,000        6,748        6,748
RESERVES
General                                                116         116          116         141          141   ,-x
Dividends                                                -          25           25          35           28  
Bad Debts                                              325         334          339         347          362      A
Unappropriated Profits                                  43          73          103          94           73    . L
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH                     18,966      20,711       22,631      25,490       29,545
Source: The Agricultural Credit Corporation



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Annual Financial Statement of Operations,
Agricultural Credit Corporation, 1967-1971
(Pounds '000)
INCOME                                                   1967         1968         1969          1970         1971
Interest and Charges Earned                           1,043        1,179        1,343        1,588         1,781
Earnings on Investments                                  22           46            25           35           63
Other Revenue                                             6            9            10            9           11
Total                                                 1,071        1,234        1,378         1.632        1.855
EXPENSES
Salaries and Wages                                      102          112           136          161          218
Office and General                                       42           56            74           98          109
Deposits and Farm Credit Bonds:
Interest                                              317          390          373          490           733
Expenses                                                1            1             1            3            6
Interest on Exchequer Advances                          352          382          457           502          504
Interest on Mortgage Stock                               57           37           27            27           27
Other Interest                                           13           12            11           16            8
Fees and Contributions                                   14           14            15           18           20
Depreciation                                              3            3             4            4            6
Provision for Bad Debts                                  20           13            12           12           15
Other Expenses                                           14             -            -           10            -
Sub-Total                                               935        1,020        1,110         1,341        1,646
Net Gain Before Income Tax                              136          214           268          291          209
Income Tax                                               78           65           95           105           84
Net Gain After Income Tax                                58          149           173          186          125  m
'D X
TOTAL                                                 1,071        1,234        1,378         1,632        1,855  oa tn
Source: Agricultural Credit Corporation
9,*,



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gross Revenue and Cost of Capital
Agricultural Credit Corporation
Fiscal Year Ending April 30:                  11 Months
Ending
1967      1968      1969       1970       1971      Mar. 31, 1972
Gross Revenue (l '000)                   1,071     1,234     1,378      1,632      1,855         2,250
Financial Charges (h '000)                 739       822       869      1,037      1,277         1,740
Financial Charges as
Percent of Gross Revenue               69.0       66.6      63.1       63.5       68.8         77.3
Source: Agricultural Credit Corporation
IM (
N 
-D X.






IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVEILPMENT PROJECT
Development of 100 ac Beef Breeding Farm
Herd Development Proiections
Unit Price
Pefore                               Before                                      End of Year
Unit     Developmnt    6 yr onwards             Development        1         2         3         4          5         6         7       8-12
(-P----Pounds    ------)
HERL COMPOSITION
Bulls                              No         100                150                  1               2         2         2         2          2         2         2       2
Breeding Cove                                 100                160                 26              41        65        72        72        72         72        72      72
Calves                                         50                 81                 22              22        37        59        65        65         65        65      65
Heifers 1-2 yrs.                              100                160                 11              11        11        13        13         13        13        13      13
Steers 1-2 yrs.                               120                 -                  11              11        -         -
Total                              No                                                71              87       115       196       152        152       152       152     152
Total Animal Units                 No                                                49              65        78        87        87         87        87        87      87
Breeding Cows                                                                         1               1         1         1         1          1         1         1       1
Hieifers 1-2 years                                                                                                                  1                    1                  1
Steers 1-2 years
Total                               No                                                  1             1         1         1         2          1         2         2       2
SALES
Bulls         2/                              100                150                  1                         1                   1         1         1         1 
Covs - Culls-3/                                71                115                  3               3         4         6        11         11        11        11      11
Calves Heifer47                                71                114                          -                 -         5         15        19        18        18       18
Calves Steer"                                                    150                  -               _        11        19        30         33        33        33       33
Heifers 1-2 years67                            9 16o                                 7               2         2         2          1         1         1         1        1
Steers 1-2 years                              142                 _                  11              11        11         -          -         -         -         -        -
Total                               No                                                22             16        29         33        58        65        64        64       64
PURCHASES
Bulls                              ?No                                                I               I         I          1         1         1         1         I        1
Heifers in calf                                                                                      10        20          5
Total                               No                                                 I             11        21          6         1         1          1         1       1
TECHNICAL OOEFFICIENTS
Effective Calving Rate             t                                                  85             85        90         90        90        90        90        90       90
Mortality Adult                    %                                                   I               1         1         1         1         1          1         1        1
Culling Rate-Cowes                 %                                                  1'              15        15        15        15        15        15         15      15
Extraction Rate                    %                                                   , r            27.'      33.3      42.3      66.7      '4 7      73.6      73.6    73.6
Stocking Rate                     Au's/ac                                              0.5             0.6       0.8       0.9       0.9       0.9        0.9       0.9      0.9
1/  Price increase L17 per yr for first 6 years.
p!  Sold November at 9 cwt liveweigilt  selling price i.895 per  r.t liveweigitt  price increa.ncg average                D per --ear f ir firs- .   -ear,.
3j  Sold March at r8B per animal in yr 3: price increasing average z l per year for firs- sx yeary
/   Sold March at 1.109 per animal in er 2; price increain'
5/  Sold November at 8  cwt liveweight; price increasinpr                                                                                                                               .-. *>
7/  Sold Marc  at 10 cwt liveweigot: price increasinor,



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK. DEVZLOPMENT PROJECT
Develo'ment of 100 ac Beef Breeding Farms
Projection of Sales and Operating Expenses
Before
Devel-                                 During Year_
opment          1         2         3        4         5         6        7       8-12
---------------------------------------Poundes_______-----
Category
SALES
Cull Cows                               210            253      352      554    1,068        1,136    1,261   1,261    1,2,1
Bulls                                   100             -      124       130       137         145       16i      161      161
Heifer Calves 1 year                     -              -        -       461    1,457        1,963    2,063   2,063    2,063
Steer Calves 1 year                      -              -    1,259    2,278    3,783         4,429    4,917   4,917    4-)lf
Heifers  20 months                      696            236      247      258       136         145       160     160       16o
Steers 2 years                        1,562          1,855   1.938
Total Cattle Sales                   2,568           2,344   3,920    3,681    6,581         7,818    8,562   8,562    8,5O6
OPERATING EXPENSES
Fertilizer 1/                           200           410      560    1,010       1,490     1,565    1,645   1,645    1,645
Concentrates 2/                          240           250     265       390        321        5r9      606      606       606
Silage making 3/                         255           350     490       635        690        725      760      760       725
Animal Health 4/                          70            90     130       170        185        200       210     210       200
Marketing and Transport 5/                45            35      65        80        145        170       180     180       170
Machinery Maintenance 6/                 100           130     170       205        245        260      275      275       260
Rates and Rent 7/                        200           210     220       235        245        260      275      275       260
Slurry Spreading 8/                      150           170     190       210        235        260      275      275       260
Bedding 9/                                55            70      95       130        150        160      170      170       160
Replacement of Bulls                     200           220     240       260        280        300      300      300       300
Labor                                    900           950   1,000    1,100       1,200      1,300    1,400   1,400    1,40U
Contingences 5%                           75            95     120       165        215        240      250      250       250
Total Operating Expenses  IO/          2,490         2,980   3,545    4,590       5,401     5,999    6,346   6,346    6,346
1/ Total area: mixed fertilizer 0-7-30 costing L30 per ton at rate of 1 cwt per ac increasing to
4 cwt from yr 4 onwards. Lime costing L1 per ton at 4 cwt per ac increasing to 10 cwt per acre
from year 4 onwards. N267 fertilizer costing L35 per ton at 1 cwt per ac in year 3 increasing
to 2 cvt per ac from up 4 onwards.
Silagearea:N26% fertilizer costing L30 per ton at 3/4 cwt per ac increasing to 4 cvt per ac
from yr 2 onwards.
2/ Barley meal to  supplementwinter silage ration for 120 days:  calves 2 cwt, steers 4 ewt, cows ; cvt,
bulls 6 cwt.  Cost L40 per ton increasing 7% per year for first 6 years.
3/ Bulls, cows and steers 5 tons silage, calves 3 tons
4/ LI per animal,
5/ Selling charges LI per animal sold, transport L1 per animal sold
6/ Tractor and equipment L500.  Depreciation 10% per year:  operating cost 25p per hr- -.  200 hrs.
increasing to 500 hra from rr 4 onvards.
7/ L1.50 per ac.
8/ L1.50 per ac increasing to L2 from yr 5 onwards
9/ Strav and filling 75p per animal wintered,                                                                                           a,
10/ For first 6 yrs costs increased 5% per year for items:  1/ 3/4/ 5/ 6/ 7/ 8/ 9/
i



IRELA,ND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of 100 ac Beef Breeding Farm
On-Farm Investment Cost Projections       -
Development Phasing Year
Average          Average         Average Cost
Category                      Unit       Units Per Farm     Unit Cost          Per Farm          1         2          3
----------------_--- Pounds ------------------------)
Pasture Improvement
Land Reclamation             ac              5                40                200                                 200
Renovation of Pasture         "             50                 6                300            300
Drainage of Pasture           "4                              70              1,000          1,000
Installations
Water Reticulation           No             10                30                300            300
Fencing                    Miles             2                 50               100            100
Buildings and Silos          No             74                 30             2,200                   1,000       1,100
Cattle
Heifers in-calf              No             35                140             4,900          1,400    2,800         700
Sub-total                  _                                                9,000          3,100    3,900       2,000
Incremental Working Capital    -                                                  885            885        -          -
TOTAL                                                        -              9,885          3,985    3,900       2,000
j  Cow cubicles costing L 20 per animal:  calf shed  L200                                                                        X x
silo capacity 400 tons costing L4 per ton.



IRlELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELoPNMET
Development of a 100 mc Beef Breeding Farn
Before
Develop-
ment
Year            0            1            2           3            4            5            6             7            8            9           10            11           12
- - - - - -    _--  - -Pounds  - - - - - - - - - - -
I. Cash Inflow
1.  Sales                      2,568       2,345         3,920       3,681        6,581         7,818        8,562        8,562        8,562        8,562         8,562        8,562        8,562
2.  Subsidy 1/                   330          330          570          920        1,015        1,015        1,015        1,015        1,015        1,015         1,015        1,015        1,015
3.  Grants f                                  500          200          300
4.  Long term financing
a.  Farmer contribution                   796          780          400
b.  Loan _               _3             3,188        3,120       1,600        __                           _                         _            _                          _
Total cash inflow    2,898         7,159        8,590        6,901        7,596        8,833        9,577        9,577         9.577        9,577        9,577        9,577         9,577
II. Cash Outflow
1.  Operating expenses         2,490        2.980        3,595        4,590        5.401        5,995        6,346        6,346        6,346        6,346         6,346        6,346         6,346
2. Investment                               3,100   3,900   2,000                                             _ _           _                -                         -             -
Total cash outflow   2.490         6,080        7,495        6,590        5,401        5,995        6,346        6,346         6,346        6,346        6,346         6,346        6,346
III.  Balance Before Debt Service    408          1,079        1,095          311        2,195        2,838        3,231         3,231  -    3,231         3,231        3,231         3,231        3,231
IV.  Debt Service
Long term                                  386          771          771        2,467        2,467        2,467        2,467        2,467         2,467        2,467        2,467         2,467
V. Cash Balance after Debt
Service                          408          693          324       (- 460o      (- 272)         371          764          764           !64          764          764           764          764
VI.  Ace. Surplus                     408        1,101        1,424           965       695          1,064         1,828        2,592        3,356        4,120         4,884        5,647         6,411
l/ Beef incentive scheme subsidy L 21 for third cow with calf, L 19 for fourth and L17 for remainder.
g Buildings 20% of cost, land reclamation L 30/ac; land drainage L 30/ac.
}| Including incremental working capital of L 885 in yr. 1, heifer retention L 445, inc. operating expenses L 440.
7 12 years/ 3 years grace/9-3/4% interest.
I    .~~~~~~~~I>



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Development of 100 ac Beef Breeding Farm
Financial Rate of Return Calculation
(Irish E)
- - - - - - - With Project  - - - - - - - -           - - - - - - - Without Project - - - - - - - -
Toter          Operating       Net Operating          Total          Operating       Net Operating           Incremental Net          On--arm           Incremental Net
Yealr         Sales8 2:      Expenses           Income              Sales          Expenses           Income                  Op. Income          Investment 3g           Cash Flow
0            2,898           2,490              408                2,898           2,490              408                      -
1            2,675           2,980           (- 306)               3.379           2,619               760                  (- 1,066)              (2,600)                (3,666)
--2            4,490           3,545              945                3,498           2,755               743                       202               (3,700)                (3,498)
3            4,601           4,590               11                3,666           2,898              768                   (-  757)               (1,700)                (2,457)
4            7,596           5,401            2,195                3,839           3 049               790                     1,405                                       1,405
5            8.833           5,995            2,834                4,o64           3,208               856                     1,9?7                                       1,978
6            9,577           6,346            3,231                4,475           3,375             1,100                     2,131                                       2,131
7            9,577           6,346            3,231                4,475           3,375             1,100                     2,131                                       2,131
8            9,577           6,346            3,231                4,475           3,375             1,100                      2,131                                      2,131
9            9,577           6,346            3,231                4,475           3,375             1,100                      2,131                                      2,131
10            9,577           6,346            3,231                4,475            3,375            1,100                      2,131                                      2,131
11            9,577           6,346            3.231                4,475            3,375            1,100                      2,131                                      2,131
12            9,577           6,346            3,231                4,475            3,375            1,100                      2,131                                     12,107 -
Financial Rate of Return: 16%
Includes beef incentive scheme subsidy.
Grants have been deducted  3,100 - 500 = 2,600
3,900 - 200 = 3,700
2,000 - 300 = 1,700                                                                                                                                         HI0
3/  Includes incremental herd value plus working capital which is recouped in year 12.






IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of $0 ac Beef Rearing and Fattening Farm
Herd Development Projections
Unit Price                  Before                       End of Year
Unit     0-5 yrs,         6 yr onwards      Development       1      2     3      4      5      6       7        8-12
(-------Pounds --_)
Category
HERD COMPO81TlON
Steer 9 months                No,        70                113                41          58    65    65    65    65    65           65        65
Steer 21 months                "        126                202                40          40    57    63    64    63    64           64        64
Total                          "                                              81           99   122   128   129   128   129         129       129
Total Animal Units           Au's                                             40          41    57    63    64    63    64           64        64
MORTALITY
Calves                        No-                                                                  1     2      1      2     1        2          2
Steers 9-21 months              "                             1                 1
SALES
Steers 2 years -               "        142                 229                40          40    40    57    63    64    63          63         63
PURCHASES
Calves 1 month                 "         50                  81                                   65    65    65    65    65          65        65
Steers 8.months                "         70                   -                41          58
TECHNCAL OOEFTIGIMTfS
Mortality                      %                                                1            1     1      1      1     1      1        1
Carrying Capaeity            Au's/ac                                            0.5         0.5   0.7   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8          0.8       0.8
1/ Sold March: 10 cwt steer atlU4.2C per cwt live weight increasing toL22.92 per cwt in year 6.



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of 80 ac Beef Rearing and Fattening Farm
Projection of Sales and Operating Expenses
Before                                          DuigYar
Development          I          2?         'A          i. Year                                    8-12
------------------------------------- ____pounds -------------------------------------~~~~~~ --------)
Category
SALES
Steers 2 yr                            5,680           6,744       7,o48     10,516      12,228     13,216     14,439       14,439    14,439
Total Sales                         5,680           6,744       7,o48     10,516      12,228     13,216      14,439     114,439     14,439
OPERATING EXPENSES
Fertilizer V                             135              235        430        855       1,045      1,105       1,165       1,165      1,165
Milk Replacement 7-                                         -        275         300        330        355         390         390        390
Concentrates 31                          320              380      1,050      1,120       1.25s      L,369       1,466       1,466      1,466
Silage Making g                          325              395        535        595         635        665         705         705        705
Animal Health SI                           80             105        135         150        160         165        175         175        175
Marketing and Transfer 6                   80              85         90         135        155        165         175         175        175
Machinery Maintenance 7Z                 100              130        165        205         245        260         275         275        275
Rates and Rent g                         160              170        18o         190        195        210         220         220        220
Slurry Spreading 9                       120              135        155         175        195        210         220         220        220
Bedding  9                                 60              80        105         115        120        125         135         135        135
Labor                                    900              950      1,000      1,100       1,200      1,300       1,400       1,400      1,400
Contingencies 5%                        _          _       85         155        190        235    _     50        265         265
Total Operating Expenses 11/        2,350           2,750'     4,Z75      5,130       5,771      6,179       6,591       6, 591     6,591
Total area: mixed fertilizer 0-7-30 costing 30 per ton at rate of I cwt per ac increasing to 4 cwt from yr 4 onwards. Lime
costing i-l per ton at 4 cwt per ac increasing to 10 cwt per acre from yr 4 onwards. N 26% fertilizer costing 35 per ton
at 1 cwt per ac in yr 3 increasing to 2 cwt per ac from yr 4 onwards.
Silage area: N 26% fertilizer costing L 35 per ton at 2 cwt per ac in yr 1 increasing to 4 cwt for ac from yr 4 onwards.
7 40 lbs per calf costing b200 per ton: price increasing 9% per yr for first 6 yrs.
3/ Barley meal: calves 4 to 12 weeks age, 2 cwt; supplementation of winter silage ration, calves 1 cwt, steers 4 cwt.
- Cost L 40 per ton increasing 7% yr for first 6 yrs.
Steers 5 tons silage, calves 3 tons.
5/ 1 per annual.
Selling charges K1 per annual sold, transport U1 per annual sold.
/  Tractor and equipment L500. Depreciation 10% per year, operating cost 25p per hr for 200 hrs increasing to 500 hrs from year
4 onwards.
E L2 per ac.                                                                                                                                        - 
9/ L1.50 per ac increasing to L2 from yr 4 onwards.
Straw and filling 75p per animal wintered.                                                                                                      m x
For first 6 yrs costs increased 5% per yr for items 7      5/           g /  / / 2o/*



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of 80 ac Beef Rearing and Fattening Farm
On-Farm Investment Cost Projections
Development Phasing
Average                 Average           Average Cost                    Year
Unit            Units per Farm             Unit Cost            per Farm           1           2
(---- --------------------Pounds---------------
Category
Pasture Improvement
Land Reclamation                                  ac                    4                      40                   160                         160
Renovation of Pasture                              "                   40                        6                  240'.          240
Drainage and New Pasture                           "                   12                      75                   900            900
Installation
Fencing                                         Miles                   l3                     65                  100                          100
Water Reticulation                                No,                   8                       30                  240                          240
Buildings and Silos                                "                   24                       60                1,440             240        1,200
Cattle
Stoers8 months                                    No.                  17                       70                1,275
Calves I month                                    rr                    t                       50                   350          1,275          300
Sub-Total                                                                                                         4,705          -2,655        2,000
Incremental Workinz Capital                                                                                       1,825             350        1,475
Total                                                                                                             6,530           3,005        3,525               , x
1/ Steer cubicles U15 per animal: calf shed k240: silo capacity 200 tons costing L4 per ton.



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
Development of an 80 ac Beef Rearing and Fattening Farm
Before
Develop-
ment
Year          0          1          2            3           4           5            6           7            8           9           10          11           12
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Pounds - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
I.  Cash Inflow
1.  Sales  1                   5,680      6,744      7,o48      10,516      12,228       13,216      14,439       14,439      14,439       14,439      14,439       14,439      14,439
2.  Grants I                                410        360
3. Long-term financing
a.  Farmer contribution                 601        705
b.  Loan                             2,404       2,820
4.  Short-term loan                         400        600          150
Total cash inflow         5,680    10,559    11,533         10,666      12,228       13,216      14,439      14,439       14,439"    14,439        14,439       14,439      14,439
II.  Cash Outflow
1.  Operating expenses         2,350      2,750      4,275       5,130        5,771       6,179       6,591        6,591       6,591        6,591       6,591        6,591        6,591
2.  Investments                           2,655      2,000
3.  Livestock purchases        2,870      4.819      4,030       4,218        4,440       4,725        5,245       5,245       5,245        5,245       5,245        5,245        5,245
Total cash outflow        5,220    10,224    10,305          9,348      10,211       10,904      11,836      11,836       11,836       11,836      11,836       11,836      11,836
III.  Cash Flow before Debt
Services                         460        335      1,228       1,318        2,017       2,312        2,603       2,603        2,603       2,603        2,603       2,603        2,603
IV.  Debt Service                                 25          o           o
1.  Long Servic                             254        508          508         508       1,769        1,769       1,769        1,769       1,769        1,769        1,769       1,769
2.  Short term                                          437         656         164
Total debt service                      254        945       1,164          672       1,769       1,769        1,769       1,769        1,769        1,769       1,769        1,769
V. Cash Flow after Debt
Service                          460         81        283          154       1,345          543         834         834          834          834         834          834         834
VI.  Ace. Surplus                      460        541        824         948        2,293       2,836       3,670        4,504       5,338        6,172        7,oo6       7,340        2,674
1/  Buildings 20% of cost; land reclamation L30/ac; land drainage L30/ac.
2/  12 years/4 years grace/ 9-3/4.,
1 year 91,4.
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .0



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of an 80 ac Beef Rearing and Fattening Farm
Financial Rate of Return Calculation
(Irish L)
-    - -       With Project - - - - - - - - -             -              Without Project -  - - - - - -
Total          Operating         Net Operating            Total           Operating         Net Operating             Incremental Net            On-Farm             Incremental Net
Year           Sales I        Expenses             Income                 Sales          Expenses             Income                    Op. Income            Investment                Cash Flow
0             2,810            2,350                460                  2,810           2,350                 460                        _
1             1,925            2,750           ( - 825)                  3,336           2,472                 864                      (-1,689)              (2,245)                 (-3,934)
2             3,018            4,275           (-1,257)                  3,486           2,601                 885                      (-2,142)              (1,640)                 (-3,782)
3             6,298            5.130             1,168                   3,650           2,736                 914                          254                                            254
4             7,788            5,771             2 017                   3,840           2,878                 962                        1,055                                         1,055
5             8,491            6,179             2 312                   4,o86           3,028              1,058                         1,254                                         1,254
6             9,194            6,591              2,603                  4,535            3,185              1,350                        1,253                                          1,253
7             9,194            6,591             2,603                   4,535            3,185              1,350                        1,253                                          1,253
8             9,194            6,591              2,603                  4,535            3,185              1,350                        1,253                                          1,253
9             9,194            6,591              2,603                  4,535            3,185              1,350                        1,253                                          1,253
10             9,194            6,591              2,603                  4,535            3,185              1,350                        1,253                                          1,253
11             9,1i94           6,591              2,603                  4,535            3,185              1,350                        1,253                                          1,253
12             9,194            6,591              2,603                  4,535            3,185              1,350                        1,253                                          9,385
Financial Rate of Return: 13t
J   After deduction purchases.
2/ Deducting grants.
3/ Includes incremental herd value L7,560, and working capital of L1,825 which is recouped in year 12.






IREIAND
LIVESTOCK DSVEIOPENT PROJECT
Development of 60 ac Dairy/Beef Fattening Fars
Herd Development Proiections
Unit Price                   Before                                 _   End of year
Unit     0-5 yrs.         6 yr onwrds        Development          1        2         3         4         5         6
(---------Pound-
lIERD COMPOSITION
Cows in Milkl                     No         1-15              170                 17             26        30        30        30        30        30        30        30
Calves                             "          50                 50                 15             15        24        27        27       27         27       27        27
Heifers 1-2 years                  "         100                160                 7               7         7        12        13       13        13        13        13
Steers 1-2 years                   "         125                202                  8              8         8        12        14       14        14        14        14
Total                             No                                               47              56        69        81        84        84        84       84        84
Total Animal Uiits               Au's                                               32             41        45        54        57        57        57       57        57
MDRTALITY
Breeding Cows                     No                                                                          I
Heifers 1-2 years                  I'                                                1                                            1         1         1         1         1
Steers 1-2 years
Totsl                                                                                1              -         I         -         1         1         1         1         1
SALES
Cows - Culls If                   No.          71               115                  3              3         5         6         6         6         6         6         6
Heifers 1-2 years./                "           99               160                  3              2         2         1         5         6         6         6         6
Steers 1-2 years  ./               "          142               229                  8              8         8         8        12        14        14        14        14
Total                             -4                                                               13       I1         15        23        26        26        26        26
PURCHASES
Heifers in calf                    A'         160                                                   7         5
Total                              "                                                                7         5
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Effective Calving Rate            %                                                 88              88       90        90        90         90       90        90        90
MortalityRate                      %                                                 I               1         1         1         1         1         1         1        1
Culling Rate Cows                  %                                                20              20        20        20        20        20        20        20       20
Extraction Rate                    %                                                29.8            27.7      26.8      21.8      28.4      31.0      31.0      31.0    31.0
Soocking Rate                    Au's/ac                                             0.5            0.6       0.7       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8      0.8
Milk Production                   gal/cow                                          500             525       550      600        600       600       600      600       600
Sold November at 9 c'.t liveweight; selling price LaJ90 per cvt liveweignr; price increasinig average 3.3;8 per year for fist o years
2/ _ Sold Novemnber at 8 cwt Iive-seiglt; tellirng price ri2,4 per cv-t li4seig t; orice increasing average S.3O per -ear for fir-' o  earS 
_/  Sold Masrch at 10 Cht liveieignt; ze'ling price 1.l2  - w cat l1rewiu.ghL;pr`oe ilitreasing average 8.3,  per year for first -ear3
3/  Sold March at 10 cwt liveweignt; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e.',_Ii                               years     ~      ~       ~     ~     ~     -



Annex 8
Table 2
IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of 60 at Dairy/Beef Fattening Farm                                                 9
Projections of Sales and Operating Experses
Before
Devel-                              During Year_
opment           1        2       3        4        5         6        I        8-12
----------- -----------------------Pounds------------------------------
Category
SALES
Cull Cows                               213           253      441     554      583      620      668       688        688
Heifers 20 months                       298           236     247      129      679      867      962       962        962
Steers 2 years                        1,136         1,349   1,410   1,476   2,329   2,891    3,209    3,209          3,p20
Total Cattle Sales                    1,647         1,838   2,098   2,159   3,591   4,378    4,859    4,859          4,859
Milk                                 1,275          1,515   2,650   3,600   3,960   4,320    4,320    4,320          4,320
Total Sales                          2,922         3,353   4,748   5,759   7,551   8,698    9,179    9,179          9,179
OPERATING EXPENSES
Fertilizer 1/                           130           295     535      700      850     895       945       945        945
Milk Replacement 2/                      55            60     100      125      135      150      160       160        160
Concentrates 3/                         220           270     335      390      333     374       404       404        404
Silage making 4 .                      170           225     290      340      370     390       415       415        415
Animal Health /                         130           175     220      260      280     300       315       315        315
Marketing and Transportation 6/          30            30      35       35       60      70        70        70         70        0
Milk Transport  7/                       85            95      160     210      220      235      245       245        245
Machinery Maintenance 8/                125           160     195      235      245      260      275       275        275
Milking Shed Maintenance 9/              35            55      65       70       75       80       85        85         85
Rates and Rent 10/                      240           250     265      280      295     310       330       330        330
Slarry spreading 11/                     90           100     110      130      150     155       165       165        165
Bedding  12/                             30            40      55       60       65      70        75        75         75
Labor 13/                             1,100         1,160   1,445   1,800   1,940   2,080    2,220    2,220          2,220
Contingencies 5%                         80           100     140      180      200     210       225       225        225
Total Operating Expenses  13/         2,520         3,015   3,950   4,815   5,21a   5,579    5,929    5,929          5,92Q
1/ Total area; mixed fertilizer 0-7-30, costing L30 per ton at rate of 1 cwt per ac increasing to 4 cwt
from yr 4 onwards. Lime costing L1 per ton at 4 cwt per ac increasing to 10 cwt per acre from yr 4
onwards.  N26% fertilizer costing  .35  per ton at 1 cwt per ac in yr 1 increasing to 2 cwt per ac
from yr 2 onwards.
Silage area; N26% fertilizer costing L30 per ton at 1 cwt per ac before development increasing to 4 cwt
per ac from yr 1 onwards.
2/ 40 lbs per calf, costing L200 per ton; price increasing 9% per yr for first 6 yrs.
3/ Barley meal; calves 4 to 12 weeks age, 2 cwt; supplementation of winter silage ration, calves 2 cwt
steers 4 cwt, cows 1 cwt before developinent to 2 cwt from yr 1 onwards: cost L140 per ton increasina
74 per year for first 6 yrs.
4/ Adults 5 tons silage, calves 3 tons.
5/ LI per animal
6/ Selling charges Ll per animal sold, transport Ll per animal sold.
7/ lp per gal.
8/ Tractor and equipment value b500.  Depreciation 10% per yr, operating cost 25p per hr for 300 hrs increasing
to 600 hrs from year 3 onwards.
9/ L2 per cow
10/L3 per ac
ll/Ll.50 per ac increasing to L2 from year 4 onwards
12/Straw and filling 75p per animal wintered                                                                                       0
1:7'Ownef's labor plus casual labor, e.g. relief milkers at L 20 per week.
14/For first 6 yrs costs increased 5% per yr for items: 1/ 4/ 5/ 6/ 7/ 8/ 9/ 10/ 11/ 12/



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELoPMENT PROJECT
Development of 60 ac Dairy/Beef Fattening Farm
On Farm Investment Cost Projections
Development Phasing
Average                                   Average Cost           '       Year
Unit         Units per Farm            Unit Cost             2er Farm           1           2
---o--------     -unds                         -_)
Category
Pasture Improvement
Land Reclamation                                 No                   3                     40                   120                         120
Renovation of Pasture                            ac                  30                      6                   180            180
Drainage and New Pasture                          "                   8                     75                   600            600
Installations
Fencing                                         Miles                 1                    65                   100             50           50
Water Reticulation                               No                   6                     33                   200            100          100
Buildings and Silos 1/                            "                  30                     40                 1,200            600          600
Roading                                          Chn                 20                     20                   400            200          200
Dairy Shed Extension                                                                                             150            150
Farm Equipment                                    "                                                              350            350
Cattle
Eleifers in calf                                  No                 12                     160                1,920           1,120          800
~ .otal                                                                           -                           5,220           3,350
F3 m
vr 0
1/ Cx
1/ Cow and steer cubicles costing L20 per animal:  calf shed L200:  .......silo capacity 125 tons costing L4 per ton.



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
Development of a 60 ac Dairy/Beef Fattening Farm
Before
Develop-
ment
Year           0         1          2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9         10         11         12
-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    Pounds    -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -   -  -  -  -
I. Cash Inflow
1.  Sales                         2,929      3,353      4,748     5,759      7,551      8,698      9,179      9,179      9,179      9,179      9,179      9,179      9,179
2.  Grants Y                                   360        210
3. Long term financing
a.  Farmer contribution                    670       374
b.  Loan                     _           2,680     1,496
Total cash inflow        2,920      7,o63      6,828      5,759      7,551     8,698      9,179      9,179      9,179      9,179      9,179      9,179      9,179
II. Cash Outflow
1.  Operating expenses            2,520      3,015      3,950     4,815      5,218      5,579      5,929      5,929      5,929      5,929      5,929      5,929      5,929
2.  Investments                              3,350      1,870
Total cash outflow      2,520      6,365      5,820      4,815      5,218     5,579      5,929      5,929      5,929      5,929      5,929      5,929      5,929
III.  Cash Balance before
Debt Service                        400        698      1,008        944     2,333      3,119      3,250      3,250      3,250      3,250      3,250      3,250      3,250
IV. Debt Service
Loan 2/                                        204        408        408        408     1,415      1,415      1,415      1,415      1,415      1,415       1,415     1,415
V. Cash Flow after Debt
Service                              400        494        6oo        536      1,925     1,704      1,835      1,835      1,835      1,835      1,835       1,835     1,835
VI. Ace. Surplus                          400       894      1,494      2,030      3,955      5,659      7,494      9,329    11,164    12,999    14,834    16,669    18,504
B Buildings 20% of cost, land reclamation L 30/ac, land drainage L 30/ac.
2/  12 years/4 years grace/9-3/4% interest.                                                                                                                                         a
*   e  *                             *                                                                  '          *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of 60 ac Dairy/Beef Fattening Farm
Financial Rate of Return Calculation
(Irish I)
-            With Project  - - - - - - - - -          - -         Without Project - - - - - - - -
Total        Operating        Net Operating           Total        Operating        Net Operating           Incremental Net           On-Farm            Incremental Net
Year         Sales         Expenses            Income               Sales        Expenses            Income                  Op. Income           Investment             Cash Flow
0           2,920          2,520                400               2,920          2,520                400                     --                                           -
1           3,353          3,015                338               3,351          2,651                700                    (- 368)             (- 2,990)             (- 3.352)
2           4,748          3,950                798               3,568          2,789                779                        19              (- 1,680)             (-1,661)
3           5,759          4,815                944               3,792          2,934                858                        86                                          86
4           7.551          5,218              2,333               4,040          3.o86                954                     1,379                                       1,379
5           8,698          5,579              3,119               4,328          3,247              1,081                     2,038                                       2,038
6           9,179          5,929              3.250               4,735          3,415              1,320                     1,930                                       1,930
7           9,179          5,929              3,250               4,735          3,415              1,320                     1,930                                       1,930
8           9,179          5,929              3,250               4,735          3,415              1,320                     1,930                                       1,930
9           9.179          5,929              3,250               4,735          3,415              1,320                     1,930                                       1,930
10           9,179          5,929              3,250               4,735          3,415              1,320                     1,930                                       1,930
11           9,179          5,929              3,250               4,735          3,415              1,320                     1,930                                       1,930
12           9,179          5,929              3,250               4,735          3,415              1,320                     1,930                                       7,284
Financial Rate of Return:  24%
1/ Deducting grants
2 Including incremental herd value L 5,354.
'.5 o






0'*~~
IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Development of Pig Breeding Unit - 40 Sows
Herd Development Prolections
Before                                       End of Year
Unit        DeveloPment      1         2         3        4          5        6          7       8-12
HERD COMPOSITION
Category
Wows and Replacements                          No             12         48        48         48       48        48         48        48        48
Boars                                                          1          2         2          2        2         2          2         2         2
Pigs 0- 5 weeks                                               15         60        65         66       69        72         72        72        72
Pigs 5-12 weeks                                               21         84        87         90       94        99         99        99        99
Total Pigs                                              49         194       202        206     213       221         221       221       221
Total Births                                            200        500      820         840     860       890        890       890        890
PURCHASES
Gilts in pig                                                  -          20                   -
Boars                                                         -           1         1          1        1         1          1         1         1
Total Purchases                                          -          21         1          1        1         1          1         1         1
M()ITALITY
Breeding Females
Pigs 0-5 weeks                                                40        100       148        151      138       142        142       142       142
Pigs 5-12 weeks                                                6         16        27         21       22        15         15        15         15
Total Mortality                                          46        117       175        172      160       157        157       157       157
SALES
Culled Sows                                                    4          4        16         16       16        16         16         16        16
Culled Boars                                                    -         -                    1         1         1          1         1         1
Growers                                                      150         255      621        648      677       709         717       717       717
Total Sales                                             154        259       638        665      694       726        734       734        734
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Conception Rate                                7               83         83        83         83       83        83         83        83        83
Number Born/Farrowing                          No              10         10        10         10       10        10         10        10        10
Number of Farrowings/Fertile sow/year          "                2          2         2.1        2.1      2.2       2.2        2.2       2.2        2.2
Average Number of Farrowings/Female
in Breeding Herd                                                1.67       1.67      1.70       1.75    1.80       1.85       1.85      1.85      1.85
Sow Culling Rate/year                         7%               40         40        40         40       40        40         40        40        40
Boar Culling Rate/year                                         40         40        40         40       40        40         40        40        40
Mortality
Breeding Females                                                2          2         2          2        2         2           2         2         2
Boars                                                           1          I         1          1        1         1          1          1         1
Pigs 0-S weeks                                                 20         20        18         18       16        16         16         16        16        a
Pigs 5-12 weeks                                                 4          4         4          3        3         2          2          2         2         - s



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of Pig Breeding Unit - 40 saws
Sales and Operating Expenses
Before                                             During Year
Devel-
Category                             opment         1           2          3           4           5          6           7          8-12
----------------- ------------------------------- Pounds -------------------------------------
SALES
Growers 1/                          1,425       2,524       6,334       6,869       7,447      8,082       8,532       8,532       8,532
Cull Boars 2/                        -            -             11         12          12          12          12         13          13
Cull Sows 3/                           62           64        267         277         288         299        310         310         310
Total Sales                         1,485       2,590       6,610       7,160       7,750      8,395       8,855       8,855       8,855
OPERATING EXPENSES
Feed 4/                               890        1,335      3,870       4,095       4,440      4,900       5,260       5,260       5,260
Animal Health 5/                      100          290        440         465         485         510         535        535         535
Electricity 6/                         50          130        220         230         245         255         270        270         270
Maintenance 7/                        100          155         330        345         365         380        400         400         400
Boar                                 -            -             50         55                      60          60         60          60
Labor                                 150          250         350        500         650         800         800         800        800
Miscellaneous                          35           60         145        155         165         185         195         195         195
Total Operating Expenses            1,320        2,220      5,405       5,845       6,405       7,090      7,520       7,520       7,520
l/ Liveweight 70 lbs at L9.5 per pig; price increasing 3.8% per year for first 6 years.
2/ Dressed weight 206 lbs.
3/  Dressed weight 194 lbs.                                                                                                                                       e
4/  L41 per ton; price increasing 6.8% per year for first 6 years.                                   
5/   10 per sow.                                                                                                                                                  x
6/  L5 per sow.
7/ 5% on building and equipment.before development value L2,000, after development L6,000.
8/ For first 6 years costs increased 5% per year for items 5/,6/,7/.



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Development of Pig breeding Unit - 40 sows
On Farm Investment Cost Projections
Development Phasing
Average                              Average Cost                  Year
Unit       Units per Farm         Unit Cost           per Farm              1                2
----------------------------------------------- Pounds--------------------)
Category
Buildings and Equipment
Site Development                                No                                                        75                 75
Farrowing Pens                                   "                  B                 110                880                880
Dry Sow Pens                                     "                 28                  55              1,540              1,540
Boar Pen                                         "                  1                  55                  55                55
Weaner Pens                                                         5                 180                 900               900
Effluent Tank                                                                                            300                300
Water Supply                                                                                              100               100
Electricity                                                                                                50                50
Meal Storage                                                                                              400               400
Office and Weighing Equipment                                                                             200               200
Stock
Gilts in pig                                                       20                  35                 700               700
Boars                                                               1                  50                  50                50
Sub Total                                                                                               5,250             5,250
Incremental Working Capital
Feed                                                                                                    1,000             1,000                             >
Total                                                                                                   6,250             6,250                           a x



IPRLAIID
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of a Pig Breeding Unit of 40 Sows
Before
Develop-
ment
Year           0         1          2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9         10         11         12
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Pounds  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
I. Cash Inflow
1.  Sales                          1,485      2,590      6,610     7,160      7,750      8,395      8,855      8,855      8,855      8,855      8,855      8,855      8,855
2.  Grrants                                   1,130
3.  Long term finance
a.  Farmers contribution                  1,250
b.  Loan                                  5,000                                                                                    -                     -           -
Total cash inflow          1,485     9,970      6,610      7,160      7,750      8,395      8,855      8,855      8,855      8,855      8,855      8,855      8,855
II. Cash Outflow
1.  Operating expenses             1,320      2,220      5,405      5,845      6,405     7,090      7,520      7,520      7,520      7,520       7,520      7,520      7,520
2.  Investments                               5,250    _                                                                                                                 _
Total cash otuflow         1,320     7,470      5,405      5,845      6,405      7,090      7,520      7,520      7,520      7,520      7,520      7,520      7,520
III.  Cash Flow before Debt
Services 2165                                 2,500      1,205      1,315      1,345     1,305      1,335      1,335      1,335       1,335     1,335       1,335      1,335
IV.  Debt Services                                    244       488      1,670      1,670      1,670      1,670      1,670      1,670
V. Cash Flow after
Debt Services                         165     2,256        717    (- 355)   (- 325)   (- 365)   (- 335)   (- 335)   (- 335)    1,335             1,335      1,335      1,335
VI.  Acc. Surplus                          165      2,421      3,138     2,783      2,458      2,093      1,758      1,423      1,088      2,423      3,758       5,093      6,428
J   Buildings 20% of cost, land reclamation L 30 per ac, land drainage L 30 per ac.
2/ 8 vears/2 years grace/9-3/44 interest.



IID~I
IRLAND
LrVMSTOCK DVEWPNMET POJECT
Developmsnt of a Pig Breding Unit - 40 Soaw
Financial SaLte of Returni Calculation
ln Irish L.)
- - ----- With Project - - - - - - - - -            - - - - -  - Without Project        - - - - - - -
Total       Operating        Net Operating          Total        Operating        Net Operating           Incremental Net          On-Fam             Incremental Net
year          ales        Expenses            Income              Sales        Expenses            Income                Op. Income            Investmentl/           Cash Flow
0          1,485          1,320                165              1,485          1,320               165
1          2,590          2,220                370              1,524          1,384               140                      230               (-4,120)              (-3,890)
2          6,610          5,405              1,205              1,600          1,489               11i                    1,094                                       1,094
3          7,160          5,845              1,315              1,661          1,581                80                    1,235                                       1,235
4          7,750          6,405              1,345              1,724          1,679                45                    1,300                                       1,300
5          8,395          7,090              1,305              1,789          1,783                 6                    1,299                                       1,299
6          8 855          7.520              1,335                                                   /                    1,335                                       1,335
7          8.855          7,520              1,335                                                                        1,335                                       1,335
8          8,855          7,520              1,335                                                                        1,335                                       1,335
9          8,855          7,520              1,335                                                                        1,335                                       1,335
10         8,855          7,520              1,335                                                                        1,335                                       1,335
11         8,855          7,520              1,335                                                                        1,335                                       1,335
12        8,855          7,520              1,335                                                                        1,335                                       4,295 "
Financial Rate of Return, 32%
3/ Taking into account the expected increases in pig meat prices of 38% p.a. and the
average increasa in operating expenses of 6.2% p.a. during the first 6 years, the
results of the operation without project become negative at this stage.
2/ Grants deducted.
]/  Includes incremental herd value - L 1,860 + L 1,000 incremental working capital.






IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of Pig FatteninS Unit - 900 pigs
Herd Development Projections
Before
Devel-                                                    End of year
Units           opment             1              2           3            4            5             6            7          8-12
HERD
Growers 12-26 weeks                No.              250             800           900         900           900          900          900           900          900
PURCHASES
Growers 12 weeks j                 "                750           2,400         2,900       3,150
MORTALITY
Growers 12-26 weeks                "                 30              96           116          95
SALES
Finished Pigs 26 weeks             "                720           1,804         2,684       3,055
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Turnover per year                   "                 3               3              3.2         3.5          3.5          3.5           3.5          3.5          3.5
Mortality                          9                  4               4             4            3            3            3             3            3            3
J Year 1, 500 pigs financed as Incremental Working Capital



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of Pig Fattening Unit - 900 pigs
Projection of Sales and Operating Expenses
Before                                            During Year
Devel-
CATEGORY                                  opment          1           2           3           4          5            6           7            8-12
(- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Pounds- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -)
SALES
Finished Pigs  /                         17,800        38,425      59,585      70,570     73,320    76,070       78,820      78,820          78,820
OPERATING EXPENSES
Feed  /                                   5,520        14,460      22,465      26,625     28,360    30,675       32,990      32,990          32,990
Labor  /                                    700         1,210       1,550       1,680       1,810     1,940       2,070       2,070           2,070
Animal Health  /                            150           505         635         730         765        805         845         845            845
Electricity S                                60           200         255         290         305        320         340         340            340
Transport S/                                150           380         580         710         740        780         820         820            820
Maintenance  /                              140           315         660         695         730        765         800         800            800
Miscellaneous                               200           250         300         350         400        450         500         500            500
Total Operating Expenses SV               6,920        17,320      26,445      31,080      33,110    35,735       38,365      38.365         38,365
L Dressed weight 143 lbs; pigmeat price E 16.1 per cwt. dressed weight, price increasing 3.8%
per year for first 6 years.
T  40 per ton; price increasing 6.8% per year for first 6 years.
/ Owners labor plus quarter labor unit in year 1 and half labor unit from year 2 onwards.
/ 20p per pig purchased.
| 8p per pig purchased.
/ 20p per pig sold.
Z/ 5% on building and equipment; before development value h 3,000, after development E 12,000.                                                                   z
/ For first 6 years costs increased 5% per year for items Aj, S , L/,  / .aX
XoC



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of Pig Fattening Unit - 900 Pigs
On Farm Investment Cost Projections
Development Phasing
Average Units                    Average Cost   - - - - - - Year - - - - - -
Unit       Per Farm           Unit Cost      Per Farm          1          2         3
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Pounds - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
AiTEGORY
ailding & Equipment
Site Development                No.                                                 300        300
Fattening Houses                 "             24                 250            6,ooo       6,000
Effluent Tank                                                                       300        300
Pump and Pipeline  /                                                              1,500      1,500
Slurry Feeding System  o/ 900                                                                  900
Grower Pigs (12 wk)             No.           550                   9.9           5.445      5.445
Sub-Total4Y                                                               14,445      14,445
ncremental Working Capital
Feed i]                         tons           46.9                42             1,970      1,970
TOTAL                                                                      16,h15      16,415
I Jordan fattening house, each unit 16' x 8' holding 25 pigs
/ For effluent disposal
/ Includes cost of bulk meal bins
/ Building grant 25% of cost                                                                                                t4H
/ Represents 25% of incremental feed cost year 1                                                                            CD



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
Development of a 900 Pig Fattening Unit
Financial Projections
Before
Develop-
ment
Year             0          1          2          3          4          5          6           7          8          9         10          11         12
 -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   -    -   -    -    -   -    -   -    -    -   -   Pounds   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   -    -    -    -    -   -    -    -    -    -   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
I. Cash Inflow
1. Sales                        14,800     38,425     59,585     70,570     73,320     76,070     78,820      78,820     78,820     78,820     78,820      78,820     78,820
2.  rrants                                  2.250
3. Long term loans
a. Farmer contribution                  3,184
b. Loan                                12,736
Total casIh inflow      14,800    56,595      59,585     70,570     73,320     76,070     78,820      78,820     78,820     78,820     78,820      78,820     78,820
II.  Cash Outflow
1. Operating expenses            6,920     17,320     26,445     31,080     33,110     35,735     38,365      38,365     38,365     38,365     38,365      38,365     38,365
2,  Investment                             14,445
3.  rrovers pig purchase         7,125     18,810     28,562     33,390     34,650     35,910     37,485      37,485     37,485     37,485      37,485     37,485     37,485
Total cash outflow      14,045     50,575     55,007     64,470     67,760     71,645      75,850     75,850     75,850     75,850      75,850     75,850     75,850
III.  Cash Flow before Debt
Service                            755      6,020      4,578      6,100      5,560      4,425       2,970      2,970      2,970      2,970       2,970      2,970      2,970
IV. Debt Service
Loan P/                                       620      1,240      4,148      4,148      4,148       4,148      4,l4e      4,148        -          -          -           -
V. Cash Flow after Debt
Service                            755      5,400      3,338      1,952      1,412         277    (-1,178)   (-1,178)   (-1,178)      2,970      2,970      2,970       2,970
VI. Acc. Surplus                        755      6,155      9,493     11,445      12,857     13,134     11,956     10,778       9,600     12,570     15,540      18,510     21,480
./ Buildings 201 of cost, land reclamation L 30/ac, land drainage L 30/ac.
?y 8 years/2 years grace/9-3/4% interest.



IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of a 900 Pig Fattening Unit
Financial Rate of Retuin Calculation
(Irish L)
-    - - - - - - - With Project - - - - - - - -       - - - - - - - Without Project - - - - - - -
Total          Operating       Net Operating          Total          Operating       Net Operating           Incremental Net          On-Farm        Incremental Net
Year          Sales .        Expenses           Income               Sles          Expenses           Income                  Op. Income          Investment           Cash Flow
0            7,675           6,920               755                7,675          6,920             755                        _
1           19,615          17,320             2,295                7,966          7,363             603                      1,692              (-16,514)          (-14,822)
2           31,025          26,445             4,580                8,266          7,833             433                      4,147                                    4,147
3           37,180          31,080             6,100                8,581          8,332             249                      5,851                                    5,851
4           38,670          33,110             5,560                8,901          8,864              37                      5,523                                    5,523
5           40,160          35,735             4,425                                                 V                        4,425                                    4,425
6           41,335          38,365             2,970                                                                          2,970                                    2,970
7           41,335          38,365             2,970                                                                           2,970                                   2,970
8           41,335          38,365             2,970                                                                          2,970                                    2,970
9           41,335          38,365             2,970                                                                          2,970                                    2,970
10           41,335          38,365             2,970                                                                           2,970                                   2 970
u            41,335          38,365             2,970                                                                           2,970                                   2.970
12           41,335          38,365             2,970                                                                           2,970                                  17,440 3
Financial Rate of Reutrn:  29%
/ After deducting purchase of growers pigs.
/ Taking into account the expected increase of pig meat prices of 38%  p.a. and the average increase
in operating expenses of 64% p.a. during the first 6 years, the results of the operation without
project become negative at this stage.
3/ Includes incremental herd value and working capital.
X 






ANNEX 11
IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phasing of Investment Program
(E Millions)
- - - - - - - - - Years  - - - - - - - - - -
Investment               1         2          3         4       Total
Beef Breeding           .502      1.245      .989      .378     3.114
Beef Rearing/
Fattening            .586     1.796      2.866     1.837     7.085
Dairy/Beef              .891     2.842      4.287     1.667     9.687
Pig Breeding            .187       .550      .575       -       1.312
Pig Fattening           .175       .350      .350       _        .875
Total Investment    2.341     6.783     9.o67      3,882    22.073
Number and Phasing of Loan Commitments
.        Beef Breeding             126      189        -          -        315
Beef Rearing/
Fattening             195      369        521        -      1,085
Dairy/Beef               266       700       889        -      1,855
Pig Breeding              30       88         92        -        210
Pig Fattening             11       22         22        -         55
Total                 628   1,368      1,524         -      3,520



ANNEX 12
IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT IROJECT
Estil.ated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                           Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                 at End of Quarter
(us'0ooo)
1 973/74
March 31, 1974                                      tOO
June 30, 1974                                      600
1 974/75
September 30, 1974                               1,1400
December 31, 19714                               2,600
March 31, 1975                                   3,900
June 30., 1975                                   5,600
1975/76
September 30, 1975                               7,800
December 31, 1975                               10,100
March 31, 1976                                  11,400
June 30, 1976                                   14,500
1976/77
SAnteember 30, 1976                             17,600
D-e: 5I<r 31, 1976                              20,400
TMarch 31 , 1977                                21,300
June 30, 1977                                   22,1400
1977/78
September 30, 1977                              23,800
Decermber 31, 1977                              25,000



IRELAND
LThVESTOCK DEVELOQMENT PROJECT                   Annex 13
Page 1
*         PROJECT DIRfCTCR'S QUALIFICATIONS, EXPMIENC1, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
1.      Qualifications and Experience
(a)  A university degree in Agriculture or allied science such as Animal
Husbandry
(b) A broad professional experience, since graduation, in pasture and
livestock development. This would include several years experience
in such fields as land development, soil cultivation, pasture main-
tenance and use, as well as in the more practical and economic as-
pects of beef ranching.
(c) Experience in the use of credit for farm development, with an ability
to objectively prepare and appraise technically sound and financially
viable investment plans for ranch development.
(d)  Preference would be given to candidates who have held senior profes-
sional positions in the field of livestock production with executive
and administrative responsibilities.
2.      Duties and Rasponsibilities
(a) Promoting the Project and encouraging farmers to participate.
(b)  Drawing up suitable procedures for agricultural officers (AO's), to
prepare and appraise applications for loans and supervise their exe-
cution. Such procedures would specify the steps which would need to
be taken in the preparation of farm development plans as well as the
technical, economic and financial criteria which would have to be met
for such applications to qualify for refinancing under the Project.
(c) Implementing a program for the training in the above procedures of
the AO's participating or expected to participate in the Project.
This program would include periodically accompanying AO's on appraisal
and 'o-n Sunervision visits to farms.
(d) Evaluating the performance of AO's participating in the Project and
advising the participating banks on their acceptability for such par-
ticipation.
(e)  Approving the technical feasibility, financial viabLLity and eligibi-
lity of all investment plans for refinancing through the Project Account.
(f)  Visiting a sample of Project financed farms at intervals to determinre
progress.
(g) Establishing and maintaining records of a sample of Project farms to
enable periodic evaluations of the impact of the lending program.
(h) Preparing quarterly and annual progress reports for submission to the
Bank.






ANNEX 15
IRELAUID
LIVESTOCK DEVEIiDFMEN'T PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The economic rate of return of the project as shown in Table 1
was calculated according to the following assumnptions:
(a) The beef u.orld ma-rket prices for 1973 were applied to the
first year of thie project. Thereafter an annual price
increase of 3.25% for the first six years was applied.
This rate of lincrease represents the higher of two
indices oi cattle production costs. The lower index
is 1.1% and the lik-ely cos-t increase (in real terms)
will probably be situated between these tw.o figures.
(kb) A with and without the project analysis was made. The
same rate of increase, 3.25% and 1.1%, has been applied
to beef o-utp-uts for both cases.
(c)  The input costs were valued at constant prices except
for the case o'. livestock purchases. The costs of live-
stock purchases were increased by 3.25% annually (or
1.1% whenever applicable).
(dl) Incremental herd values wjere credited at the end of the
life of thie project, 12 years.
(e) Transfer payments in the form of Govern-ment subsidies
were not included as benefits.
(f) No taxes were charged to project costs because incomes
derived from agricultuire are non-taxable in Ireland.
2.        Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of return -would
be about 20%. Should investment costs be 10% higher than projected,
the economic rate of return would fall to 17%. With a 5% increase in
the operat-ing cost the economic rate of return would be 16% and with
beef prices growing only 1.1%t p.a. it would also be 18%.






IRELAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Economic Rate of Return Calculations
(Amounts in L '000)
--- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Year  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --
Benefit Flows                               1             2          3           4        5          6        7       8        9      10       11        12
1) 3.25% Price Irncreases for Beef
Beef Breeding                       (   924)      ( 1,175)     (558)        742     1,005       998      998     998      998     998      998      3,179
Beef Rearing and Fattening          ( 2,723)      ( 3,431)      999       1.953     2,204      2,284   2,284   2,284   2,284   2,284   2,284       11,125
Dairy/Beef                          ( 6,185)      ( 3,177)      131       1,929     2,802     2,823   2,823   2,823   2,823   2,823   2,823        13,664
Pig Breeding                        ( 1,008)          174       203         222       231       243      243     243      243     243      243        843
Pig Fattening                       ( 1,016)          128       308         308       38         3       308     308      308                         693
Net Financial Benefits              ( 11,856)     ( 7,481)    1,083       5,154     6,550     6,656   6,656   6,656   6,656   6,656   6,656        29,504
Adjustment to Financial Benefits
1.  Government Investment Grant       1,631           884        95
2. Fertilizer Subsidies                  104          180       290         320       320        320     320     320      320     320      320        320
Sub-total                             1,735         1,064       385         320       320        320     320     320      320     320      320        320
Net Economic Benefits                   (-13,591)     (-8,545)       698      4,834     6,230      6,336   6,336   6,336   6,336   6,336   6,336       29,184
Rate of Return: 20%
Benefit Flows
2)  1.1% Price Increases for Beef
Beef Breeding                       ( 1,134)      ( 1,018)      (685)       627       884        805     805      805     805      805     805       2.728
Beef Rearing and Pattening          ( 2,723)      ( 2,432)       799      1,590     1,719      1,516   1,516   1,516   1,516   1,5i6   1,516         8,540
Dairy/Beef                          ( 5,613)      ( 2,255)      (139)     1.742     2,467      2.417   2,417   2,417   2,417   2,417   2,417        11,887
Pig Breeding                        ( 1,008)          174        203        222       231        243     243      243     243      243     243         843
Pig Fattening                       ( 1,016)          128        308        308       3o8        3o8     308      308     308      308     38    - 693
Net Financial Benefits              ( 11,494)     ( 5,403)       486      4,489     5,609      5,289   5,289   5,289   5,289   5,289   5,289        24,691
Adiustment to Financial Benefits
1.  Government Investment Grants       1,631          884         95
2. Fertilizer Subsidies                  104          180        290        320        320       320      320     320      320     320      320        320
Sub-total                              1,735        1,o64        385        320        320       320     320      320     320      320     320         320
Net Economic Benefits                   ( 13,229)      ( 6,467)      101      4,169      5,289     4,969   4,969   4,969   4,969   4,969   4,969        24,371
Rate of Return: 18%






IBRD 10068
I ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I I
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N  E T 8FG
gX             /<      <~~~~~~~~~~D   0  W 4
iX~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AEl RIM             A    5 H  
_  H   9   0   5 C 0 iEITRM            ONA 0  'i  ,
-N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A~~~~~~~~~~  
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
7   17  77  77   45 0.154     77o"W"  ---                         -   I    I5t5L O707Ib dr
I             I                     .05    77I'
#~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ p                        , y             rF
7';; / .X0Mrs ;1. eae E     6    {       'Ef d;0r1   W f A S T   Lre Rtton
UvfleJll>biz.Sol   >   _  <>  =    don 379<                ;_ Rrnlwrys~~A
oe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B                                                IRoEL4A 0    55      =   tf4  --oNt Dudr
0 IC _ 29 30 40 Mqlos << 7^, w lerewnationsl boundory~~~~~~~
J   a J:>          6                    DesigynDte~~~~~~~~~..W  bd.,i.rv
nIb  lo         1.                 l                 l                |   3.Ne 972~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~,d,



