Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20210-HO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 51.2 MILLION
(US$66.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A
ROAD RECONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
October 13, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



(Exchange Rate Effective 9/30/00)
Currency Unit = Lempiras
LC 15.00= US$1
US$.067 = LC1
FISCAL YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
DGA          Civil Aviation Directorate
(Direcci6n General Aeroncautica)
DGC         General Roads Directorate
(Direcci6n General de Carreteras)
DGCCA        General Road Maintenance Directorate
(Direcci6n General de Conservacion de Carreteras y Aeropuertos)
DST          Double Surface Treatment
ECLAC       The Economic Commission for Latin America
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GNP          Gross National Product
GOH          Govermment of Honduras
GTZ         German Agency for technical Cooperation
HDM         Highway Design and Maintenance Model
IDA         International Development Association
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IRF         International Road Federation
LAC         Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LACI        Loan Administration Change Initiative
NPV          Net Present Value
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PMR          Project Management Report
PMRTN       Master Plan for National Reconstruction and Transformation (Plan
Maestro de la Reconstruccion y Transformacion Nacional)
SOPTRAVI  Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Housing
(Secretaria de Obras Puiblicas, Transporte y Vivienda)
TA          Technical Assistance
TSRP        Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project
TSSP         Transport Sector Strategy Paper
UPEG        Management Planning and Evaluation Unit
Unidad de Planificaci6n y Evaluaci6n de Gesti6n
USAID       U.S. Agency for International Development
VOC          Vehicle Operating Cost
VPD          Vehicles per Day
Vice President: David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Team Leader: Guillermo Ruan



Honduras
Road Reconstruction and Improvement Project
CONTENTS
A  Project Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Project development objective .................................................................2
2. Key performance indicators .................................................................2
B Strategic Context .................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........ 2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ...............................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .............                         ..................4
C   Project Description Summary .................................................................5
1. Project components .................................................................5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .....................................5
3. Benefits and target population .......................                     ..........................................5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ...........................................................6
D Project Rationale ................................................................7
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .............................................7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .........8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design . ....................................................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...................................................9
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .............................................................. 10
E Summary Project Analysis ...............................................................                                         10
1. Economic ............................................................... 10
2. Financial ............................................................... 10
3. Technical ............................................................... 11
4. Institutional ...............................................................                                         11
5. Social ...............................................................                                               11
6. Environmental assessment ...............................................................                             11
7. Participatory approach ...............................................................                               12
F Sustainability and Risks ...............................................................                                         12
1. Sustainability ...............................................................                                       12
2. Critical Risks ............................................................... 12
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ...............................................................                       14



G Main Loan Conditions .......................                                 14
1. Effectiveness Conditions ....................... 14
2. Other .......................                                        14
H Readiness for Implementation .......................                         14
I Compliance with Bank Policies .......................                        14
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or
Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map



Honduras
Road Reconstruction and Improvemnent Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Central America Country Management Unit
Date: October 13. 2000                               Team Leader: Guillerrno Ruan
Countrv Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo       Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Project ID: P057538                                   Sector: TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan          Theme(s':
Poverty T'argeted Intervention:    [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [X] Credit       [] Grant       [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$66.5    million
Proposed terms:    Li To be defined      [X] Multicurrency       [] Single currency
[ I Standard Variable    L  Fixed            [  LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):           10 years
Years to maturity:              40
Commitment fee:             Standard (a variable rate between 0 and 0.5% of the undisbursed amount set annually by
the Executive Directors)
Service charge:                 0.75%
Financing plant                   .,
Government                                                  8.-                                 8.3
IDA                                                       23.9               42.6              66.5
Spain                                                       5.9              18.2              24.1
Nordic Development Fund                                     1.9               6.0               7.9
Total:                                                     40.0              66.8             106.8
Borrower: Republic of Honduras
Guarantor:
Responsible agency:
Secretaria de Obras Publicas, Transporte v Vivienda (SOPTRAVI) and the Road Fund
Address: Barrio La Bolsa, Comayaguela, Honduras
Contact Person: Kathva M. Pastor, Director General of Highways (Directora General de Carreteras)
Tel 504-225-1703
Fax: 504-2'5-2469
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
IFY          Of          2O             O9                                     p
} ---  o i;2001'   2vtrb.... .-<)a-
Annual        4.0         10.0         14.0          1 ,o         14.0          6.5
Cumulative        4.0         14.0         28.0         46.0         60.0          66.5
Project implementation period: 5 yrs
Expected effectiveness date: March 30, 2001           Expected closing date: March 31, 2006
Implementing agency: Secretaria de Obras Publicas, Transporte y Viv ;enda (SOPTRAVI)
Contact person: Kathya Pastor. Director General of Highway:s (Directora General de Carreteras)
Address: Barrio La Bolsa. Comayaguela, Honduras
Tel.: 504-225-1703    Fax: 504-225-2469
OtCS PAD Form October 9. 1998



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objectives of the project would be: (a) to restore roads damaged by Hurricane Mitch; (b) to improve
trade corridors; and (c) to establish a sustainable and accountable financial and institutional set-up for the
road subsector. These objectives would be achieved by: (i) assisting the GOH with the reconstruction,
rehabilitation and improvement of roads and bridges included in Honduras' Hurricane Mitch National
Reconstruction Plan (Plan Maestro de la Reconstrucci6n y Transformacion Nacional -- PMRTN)
presented by the GOH at the Consultative Group Meeting held in Stockholm, Sweden, in May 1999; (ii)
continuing IDA's support to improving road maintenance practices by providing TA to strengthen the
organization of the Road Fund, and by implementing maintenance pilot projects through micro-
enterprises to stimulate employment in the rural areas; and  (iii) continuing IDA's support in
strengthening the institutional capacity of SOPTRAVI to manage the transport sector, with particular
emphasis on the road subsector.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The achievements of the development objectives will be measured by the following indicators:
(a) verification that traffic volumes and vehicle operating costs on the upgraded roads meet those
projected in the feasibility studies; (b) the successful implementation of the road maintenance pilot project
through the use of micro-enterprises; (c) verification that by the end of the project, the Road Fund is
financing the maintenance of at least 70% of the national network (main, secondary and feeder roads);
and (d) kilometers of main and rural roads and meters of bridges to be reconstructed/rehabilitated.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number:19893-HO                   Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/14/99
The thrust of IDA's strategy is to support Honduras' medium-term reconstruction program while laying
the basis for a stronger economy and more equitable distribution of the benefits from growth. The
proposed project would support the following CAS objectives implicit in the strategy: it would: (i) deal
with immediate road and bridge reconstruction/ rehabilitation needs of the country; (ii) address institution
building objectives by strengthening the capacity of SOPTRAVI to manage the transport sector; (iii) deal
with the issue of sustainability of road investments by strengthening the management of the recently
implemented Road Fund; and (iv) stimulate employment in the rural areas through the creation of road
maintenance micro-enterprises.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Honduras already ranks among the least developed countries in the Western Hemisphere. It is the third
poorest country in LAC with a GNP per capita of US$730 (1998). Unprecedented damage was caused to
the physical infrastructure of the country when Hurricane Mitch struck Honduras in October, 1998. An
estimated 5,660 people died, over 8,000 disappeared and 12,270 were injured. Winds blew at speeds of
about 285 km/hr and over a meter of rain fell in some areas. The Economic Commission for Latin
America (ECLAC) estimated that the recovery cost of roads, bridges and telecommunication
infrastructure is US$571.4 million (about 11 % of the GDP). Nearly 60% of the road network was
affected; 100 bridges were either destroyed or severely damaged, 8 of them in Tegucigalpa. The main
road corridors suffered extensive damage to the point that Tegucigalpa and other towns were cut off from
the rest of the country by road for several days. The San Pedro Sula Airport was flooded and shut down
for one week. Countless towns across regions had power lines knocked down and were isolated by roads
buried under mud slides.
When Hurricane Mitch struck, the GOH was completing the implementation of the Transport Sector
Rehabilitation Project, TSRP (Credit 2458-HO). The TSRP was scheduled to close on December 31,



Page 3
1998 with most project targets fully achieved and, in some cases, exceeded. Some of the works financed
under the project were damaged by the hurricane and this prompted the GOH to request an extension to
its Closing Date to repair them. Simultaneously, IDA approved on January 7, 1999, a Supplemental
Credit of US$20 million to Credit 2458 to assist the GOH with the immediate road and bridge
reconstruction/repair needs. The Supplemental Credit is under implementation and all the works are
expected to be completed by March 30, 2001.  There is, however, a need for a longer term
reconstruction/rehabilitation assistance in the road subsector.
The last Transport Sector Strategy Paper (TSSP) was prepared by IDA in April 1992 (Report No. 10285-
HO). The main conclusions and actions recommended in the TSSP were: (i) expand the participation of
the private sector in the provision of transport services where appropriate --- e.g. supporting the
contracting of road maintenance; encouraging operation and facility concessions in ports and airports;
and restructuring railway services; (ii) improve fiscal performance --- e.g. improving bus fare pricing in
urban transport, promoting the establishment of cost-based tariffs in the port subsector ; (iii) emphasize
maintenance and rehabilitation of existing assets --- e.g. preserving the present road network before
undertaking further expansion; rehabilitating airport infrastructure; (iv) strengthen investment selection -
-- e.g. analyzing alternatives; undertaking system evaluations; (v) support institutional and policy reforms
--- e.g. encouraging the strengthening of planning and regulatory capabilities; assisting in the privatization
process in the transport sector;  (vi)  promote environmental protection --- e.g. supporting the
strengthening of the environmental unit in SOPTRAVI
Many of these recommendations were followed under the IDA-financed TSRP. During the
implementation of this project, several positive developments have taken place, including: (i) moving
from road maintenance by force account to road maintenance by contract (100%); in the process, the staff
of the General Road Maintenance Directorate (DGCCA) was reduced, in 1993, from 5500 to 700. A
large percentage of the staff that left the DGCCA became road maintenance contractors; (ii) the design
and implementation of the Road Fund. Although the Road Fund was originally approved by Congress in
December 1993, it only became operational in June1999. With the implementation of the Fund, the
DGCCA ceased to exist and its staff were either transferred to the Fund and to the General Roads
Directorate (DGC), or released; (iii) preparing the basis for the concession of the main airports in the
country (e.g. draft civil aviation law yet to be approved by Congress, provision of TA to the Civil
Aviation Directorate -- DGA); and preparing studies for the concession of the container park at Puerto
Cortes and for the rationalization of the operations of the railway; (iv) financing of road rehabilitation
works (main, secondary and feeder roads) and bridge rehabilitation and construction; (v) financing the
rehabilitation of the runway at the San Pedro Sula Airport; (vi) creation and training of a road unit within
the planning unit of SOPTRAVI (UPEG --Unidad de Planificaci6n y Evaluacion de Gesti6n) to handle
the economic evaluation, planning and programming of road investments; this unit is fully equipped to
carryout its functions; and (vii) designing and implementing a bridge management system (HONDUSAP)
which was very useful following Hurricane Mitch for the evaluation and prioritization of bridge
reconstruction works as it contains detailed information on approximately 900 bridges.
Although the TSRP has made significant contributions to the improvement to the transport sector of
Honduras, there are some areas that were either not addressed by the project, need to be addressed in
more detail, or require a follow-up operation to firm-up. These areas are: (i) the strengthening of the
Road Fund organization to guarantee the sustainability of the upcoming road reconstruction/rehabilitation
investments. IDA will continue to work very closely with the IRF/[JN-ECLAC/GTZ in this area; (ii) the
introduction of new maintenance schemes that have proven very successful in other countries such as the
use of community-based micro-enterprises for routine maintenance activities; (iii) the work on the
rationalization of the railways begun under the TSRP, needs to be finalized; and (iv) the institutional
strengthening of SOPTRAVI in the planning, programming and budgeting areas, needs to be firmed-up.



Page 4
Government Strategy
The GOH's strategy for the road subsector is contained in the PMRTN. The first priority is to recover the
road and bridge infrastructure damaged by Hurricane Mitch and to strengthen the Road Fund organization
to ensure adequate maintenance levels. Emphasis is also given in the PMRTN to the improvement of the
main trade corridors particularly those on the so-called Natural Corridor (the road corridor along the
pacific side of Central America that connects all countries), the Panamerican Highway, and the Central
Highway (the road corridor connecting Tegucigalpa and the central region of the country to Puerto
Castilla). Also, GOH's strategy calls for SOPTRAVI to continue strengthening its capacity to manage the
transport sector. This effort includes, the strengthening of SOPTRAVI's planning, programming and
budgeting capabilities, the restructuring of DGC following the implementation of the Road Fund, and the
strengthening of the environmental unit within SOPTRAVI.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(i) Reconstruction/rehabilitation/improvement of roads and bridges in the PMRTN. The project would
finance road and bridge projects to be selected for their economic importance (trade corridors) and for
their potential contribution to improving the physical integration of the country. The projects to be
financed complement work currently being implemented by Credit 2458-HO.
(ii) Strengthening road maintenance management capacity: The project would finance consultant
services required for the strengthening of the Road Fund organization and for assisting the Fund with the
implementation of road maintenance pilot project through micro-enterprises. The Road Fund became
operational in June 1999 and moved to its new offices outside SOPTRAVI. The Fund's Technical
Committee (Comite Tecnico Vial) presided by the Minister of SOPTRAVI and integrated, in addition to
SOPTRAVI, by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Industry and Commerce, DGC (Direccion
General de Carreteras), AMHON  (Asociacion de Municipios de Honduras), COHEP (Consejo
Hondureno de la Empresa Privada), CNT (Consejo Nacional de Transporte) and CICH (Colegio de
Ingenieros Civiles de Honduras), is meeting regularly (once a month) and it is expected that by project
effectiveness, the Fund will be fully staffed. The road maintenance pilot project will be carried out by
community-based micro-enterprises organized as cooperatives with its members having equal rights and
obligations. The number of members in each micro-enterprise ranges from 11 to 14 depending on the
length of the road section to be maintained and the characteristics of the section (i.e. topography,
vegetation, etc.). The members are selected from communities along the roads to be maintained and each
micro-enterprise will be responsible for 40-50 km of roads The credit would also finance a limited
amount of goods as part of the strengthening of the maintenance management capacity (vehicles,
computers, pavement evaluation and office equipment, and tools).
(iii) Strengthening the institutional capacity to manage the transport sector: The project would continue
the effort begun under the TSRP to strengthen the capacity of SOPTRAVI to manage the transport sector,
particularly the road subsector, through the financing of consultant services and the provision of a training
program. Although the planning unit within UPEG is well trained and equipped, more assistance is
required to consolidate further certain areas. For instance, it will be necessary to assist the unit in
developing a formal work program for the next few years and to coordinate its output with the Road
Fund, and in its transition from HDM-III (a model developed by the Bank for evaluating policies,
standards, and programs of road rehabilitation and maintenance) to HDM-IV. Finally, the project has
made provisions for assisting the GOH with restructuring its railways, if the work in this area currently
being financed under Credit 2458-HO, moves into the implementation phase.



Page 5
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
;_______________  -                             -ni~av  -          --tiX
1. Road Reconstr./ Rehab./Improv.      Roads       68.8   64.4      37.7
1.1 Tegucigalpa-Danli (84.0 km)                     19.2
1.2 Jicaro Galan-EI Amatillo (40.2 km)               6.3
1.3 El Negrito-Portillo Chancaya (46.5 km)          18.0            15.7      87
1.4 San Lorenzo-Olanchito (45.0 km)                 11.8            10.3      87
1.5 Rio Dulce-EI Porvenir (46.5 km)                 13.5             11.7
2. Rural Roads & Bridges Program        Roads        8.5    7.9       7.4      87
3. Road Maintenance Pilot Project       Roads        4.0    3.8       3.5      87
4. Consultants/TA/Training               Inst.      11.5   10.8       9.0     100
4.1 Works Supervision                    Bldg.
- IDA Works                                       5.6              5.6     100
- NDF Works                                       0.6
- Spain Works                                     1.9
4.2 TA for SOPTRAVI                                  0.5              0.5     100
4.3 TA for Road Fund                                 0.5              0.5     100
4.4 TA for Railways                                  0.3              0.3     100
4.5 TA for Maintenance Pilot Project                 0.3              0.3     100
4.6 Training Program                                 0.3              0.3     100
4.7 Project Coordination                             1.5              1.5     100
5. Goods                               Goods         1.2    1.1       1.2     100
6. Audit Fees                                        0.1    0.1       0.1     100
Base Project Cost             94.1             58.9
7. Unallocated (Contingencies)                _     12.7   11.9       7.6
Total Project Costs   106.8  100%       66.5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The implementation of the Road Fund will have a very positive impact on project sustainability given the
expected level of investment from several sources in the next few years to recover the road network. In
addition, the Fund would lead to improved resource mobilization, sustainable road maintenance, and more
balanced road expenditure programs. The introduction of micro-enterprises for the execution of routine
road maintenance activities, will generate job opportunities in the rural areas. The proposed institutional
strengthening of SOPTRAVI's planning unit through the provision of TA and training for the
development of multi-year road investment programs, will improve the management of the transport
sector and, more particularly, of the road subsector.
3. Benefits and target population:
The population at large will benefit from the proposed road-related works to be financed by the project.
The rehabilitation of the main road corridors (Tegucigalpa-Danli and Jicaro Galan-El Amatillo) will
reduce transport costs for goods and passengers including international traffic coming from Nicaragua
and El Salvador, respectively. The reconstruction of a 46.5 km portion between El Negrito and Portillo
Chancaya of the road joining Santa Rita with the town of Yoro, which was severely affected by Mitch,
will fully restore road access to the area and reduce transport costs as a result of lower vehicle operation
costs and travel times. Similarly, lower transport costs will be experienced by the improvement of the
San Lorenzo-Olanchito (45.0 km) and the Rio Dulce-EI Porvenir (46.5 km) road sections. These roads
are part of the PMRTN and their rehabilitation/improvement would contribute to fostering economic
growth through improvements in market integration and accessibility. Finally, rural accessibility will be



Page 6
improved by the rehabilitation of about 100 km of feeder roads and the reconstruction/rehabilitation of
550 linear meters of high priority bridges on feeders roads.
The implementation of road maintenance of about 900 to 1100 km of paved roads through the use of
community-based micro-enterprises will ensure that routine maintenance activities are periodically
carried out preventing the early deterioration of the roads, and will increase employment opportunities in
the rural areas.
The institutional strengthening component is targeted at rationalizing road sector management, thus
addressing the need for improvement of SOPTRAVI's implementation capacity particularly now with the
urgent need to recover the severely damaged road network. Benefits will also be obtained from increased
employment in road construction and maintenance activities.
In terms of target population, the project would benefit three main groups: the road users would benefit
from having the pre-Mitch accessibility restored and from traveling over an improved network; the
general population, from increased economic activity; and the construction industry, from the works to be
implemented under the project which in turn would generate employment opportunities, many of them
requiring low skills, which are suited to the rural poor, such as the proposed road maintenance micro-
enterprises.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
General. The Secretaria de Obras Pzublicas, Transporte y Vivienda (SOPTRAVI) would have the
overall responsibility for the implementation of the proposed project. This responsibility will fall on the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) created within DGC for the implementation of the ongoing Credit
2458-HO. The DGC through the PIU will be responsible for the following components: (i) Road
reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Improvement; (ii) Rural Roads and Bridges Program; (iii) Consultant
Services/Technical Assistance/Training. SOPTRAVI will sign a Subsidiary Agreement with the Road
Fund for the implementation of the Road maintenance Pilot Project through micro-enterprises, the
supervision of the works, the implementation of technical assistance to strengthen the Road Fund
organization, and the acquisition of a limited amount of goods.
The DGC and the Road Fund will be assisted with project coordination by a consulting firm much in the
same way that was done for Credit 2458-HO where this arrangement has worked very satisfactorily. The
firm will become the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and will specifically assist the PIU within the
DGC and the Road Fund, inter alia, in procurement and disbursement activities, and will also be
responsible for the consolidation of the project financial information and for the preparation of the Project
Management Reports (PMRs) required by IDA. The proposed project includes funds to cover the cost of
these services over the entire project implementation period. IDA guidelines for the procurement of
consultant services will be followed in the selection of the firm to be made responsible for the
coordination function.
Financial Management and Accounting. As part of the project preparation, IDA performed an
assessment of DGC's PIU financial management and accounting system, and during appraisal a financial
management assessment of the Road Fund was conducted, including the identification of the areas that
require strengthening in order to meet the requirements of IDA for the provision of accurate and timely
information on project resources and expenditures. At present the DGC has a financial system that meets
minimum IDA requirements, but does not have PMR capabilities. Action plans were agreed with the
DGC and the Road Fund to ensure that an adequate financial management system with PMR capabilities
has been implemented and effectively functioning by the end of the second quarter of project
implementation. The key recommendations in the actions plan are: (a) contracting of the CPU with a
private firm; (b) contracting of a consultant for the design and implementation of a financial management
system; (c) the consultant hired for the implementation of the financial management system for the
project at the PCU, will install a version of the system at the PIU within DGC and train the PIU staff in its



Page 7
use. At least monthly, the PIU and Road Fund will provide the PCU with project financial information
for consolidation purposes, either electronically or through the link of both systems; detailed accounts
will be kept for each project component and for its sub-components; (d) the Road Fund has implemented
a financial accounting system, which accounts separately for the Road Maintenance Pilot Project through
the micro-enterprises, (e) the Road Fund prepares the administrative procedures manual; and (i) some of
the PMRs will be generated by the Project Monitoring System currently being implemented in
SOPTRAVI's UPEG by the firm SNC-LAVALIN International. It is expected that this system will be a
very useful tool to support the financial management system of the project in the areas of physical
monitoring of project activities, and planning and cash forecast activities.
Progress Reporting. The project will produce PMRs each calendar quarter, containing information on
financial, physical, and procurement progress. These reports will be prepared within 45 days, or earlier,
after the end of each calendar quarter starting on June 30, 2001 (i.e. the first PMR should cover the
second quarter of 2001 and the report will be presented no latter than August 15, 2001). Up to June 30,
2001, traditional procedures for reporting and disbursements will be used.
Audit Arrangements. An external auditor, acceptable to IDA, will be contracted by SOPTRAVI and the
Road Fund to carry out an annual financial audits of the parts of the project under their responsibility.
The auditor will be selected by project effectiveness following IDA's "Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised in September
1997 and January 1999, so that the interim audits can be performed throughout the first year of project
implementation. The project financial statement, the Special Accounts that will be opened in the Central
Bank, and the PMRs will be audited at the end of each fiscal year during project implementation. The
audit would include: (i) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems to
monitor expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure safe custody of the project-financed
assets; (ii) a determination as to whether the Borrower and the PCU have maintained adequate
documentation in all relevant transactions; (iii) verification that expenditures submitted to IDA are
eligible for financing; (iv) a determination as to whether the Borrower and the PCU have complied with
the terms of the Credit agreement and with the applicable laws and regulations; and (v) identification of
any ineligible expenditure. Copies of the audit reports will be submitted to IDA within six months of the
closing of the country's fiscal year (January 1 - December 31). Proposals were received from qualified
accounting firms and the selection and hiring of the external auditors should be completed by Credit
Effectiveness. The cost of the external auditors will be financed by the Credit.
Retroactive Financing.  Retroactive financing may be made on account of payments made for the
eligible expenditures in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$5 million.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A TRSP follow-up project was under preparation when Hurricane Mitch struck. Although the Hurricane
changed the country's landscape significantly, some of the project components already identified for the
follow-up operation were maintained under the proposed new operation; others were replaced/revised
based on the new sector priorities outlined in the PMRTN.
Hurricane Mitch washed away much of the progress that Honduras had made in improving its physical
infrastructure. Damage was particularly severe to roads and bridges, water systems and major cities,
particularly Tegucigalpa. Given the impact of Mitch on roads and the fact that other agencies are already
involved in the other affected sectors (water and urban), IDA, with assistance from the Spanish
Government and the Nordic Development Fund, is directing its resources to the recovery of the roads and
bridges. The road subprojects under consideration were selected from the high priority projects presented
in the Mitch recovery program (PMRTN). Estimates included in the PMRTN put the cost of recovering
the road sector and its bridges at US$571.4 million.



Page 8
For the road Santa Rita-Yoro, several alignments were examined in the section between El Negrito and
Portillo de Chancaya to reduce the vulnerability of the road against an event similar to Mitch. The
alternative alignments, however, proved to be unfeasible because of the topographic conditions of the
zone and the presence of faults on the proposed alignments. The Alternative adopted for this road was to
keep it on the same alignment and provide the necessary protection against potential future flood damage.
The improvement of the road segment connecting Yoro to San Lorenzo was also considered for financing
under the project. However, it is an expensive project requiring major right-of-way acquisitions. Also
the GOH was concerned that project implementation would be delayed by the land acquisition process
and decided to postpone the improvement of this segment.
With respect to the rural roads and bridges program, preference was given to those that require
reconstruction or rehabilitation so that access in the rural areas can be improved.   The bridge
reconstruction needs on the main road network were left to other donors (Japan, Sweden). This division
of labor was coordinated with the Government and other donors agencies during project preparation.
Studies were completed prior to appraisal for the rural roads and bridge to be financed by the Credit.
With regards to TA and studies, the GOH and IDA looked at several initiatives. Among those the design
of a national traffic safety strategy, and the preparation of engineering studies for both roads and levees.
In view of the fact that the GOH had grant funds for this type of work, it was decided to drop them from
the project.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Road reconstruction and capacity  Honduras Seventh              S                 S
building                          Highway Project
(Credits 1341-HO and
1342-HO); Approval
Year: 1976; Amount:          S                 S
Improvement of feeder roads and   US$35 million
capacity building                 Honduras Eighth
Highway Project (Credit
1901-HO); Approval
Year: 1980; Amount:
US$28 millionHonduras        S                 S
Main, secondary and feeder road   Transport Sector
rehabilitation and maintenance,   Rehabilitation Project
rehabilitation of airport infrastructure,  (Credit 2458-HO)
and capacity building             Approval Year: 1993;
Emergency road and bridge works   Amount: US$65 million
following the damage caused by    Supplemental Credit to
Hurricane Mitch                   Credit 2458-HO.               S                 S
Approval year: 1999;
Amount: US$20 million



Page 9
Other development agencies
Main road rehabilitation; road    IDB Loans 668/OC-HO
maintenance (paved and unpaved) and  (US$80 million) and
capacity building                  875/SF-HO (US$25M)
Status: Loans are
closing
Road and bridge reconstruction and  IDB 1029 (US$15.8
rehabilitation                     million) and 1053
(US$26.8 millions.
Status: under
Feeder road rehabilitation and    implementation
improvement                       USAID - RECAP
Project (US$50M);
status: under
implementation through
Construction of 7 major bridges    FHIS
Japan- bridge designs
Bridge construction and rehabilitation   under preparation
of 11 bridges                      Sweden - Ongoing
(about US$26 million)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Including the ongoing TSRP, the Bank Group has financed 9 highway projects in Honduras going back to
1955. IDA's experience with road projects in Honduras has shown that the principal problems have been:
(i) planning, programming and budgetary procedures need to be given special emphasis, particularly for
road maintenance activities. A great deal would be achieved by improving planning, programming and
budgeting activities, by strengthening the Road Fund organization, and by improving coordination among
donors (ii) the GOH's ability to mobilize sufficient local resources to meet the counterpart funding
requirements. For instance, during the initial stages in the implementation of the TSRP, arrangements
had to be put in place to increase temporarily IDA's share of the project cost. Since the unavailability of
counterpart funding could become a major issue in the present country situation, the requirements for
local funding would be kept to a minimum; (iii) delays in processing procurement actions. Although
IDA procurement guidelines have been adopted, the internal process of awarding, signing and registering
contracts is very slow; IDA will discuss with the GOH possible ways to streamline the internal process;
(iv) sustainable institutional improvements require significant efforts from the GOH and support from
other donors over a long period of time; although TA and studies have been included in the project to
strengthen SOPTRAVI, expectations must be kept realistic in a country undergoing major reconstruction
efforts. The design of the proposed project will take into account the above lessons and lessons from other
IDA projects.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Before the arrival of Mitch, the GOH and IDA were in the process of identifying a follow-up project to
the TSRP. The emphasis was on improving the trade corridors connecting Honduras to its neighbors.
Two of the road sections included in the preliminary discussions have been kept under the proposed
project (Jicaro Galan-El Amatillo and Tegucigalpa-Danli) and the technical and feasibility studies for
both road sections, which were financed by the GOH, have been completed. Others roads and bridges
under consideration at the time were replaced by roads extensively damaged by the hurricane. Similarly,
much of the institutional building component included in the proposed project had already been discussed
with the GOH.
With regards to the road maintenance pilot project through micro-enterprises, the Road Fund has already
contracted 6 micro-enterprises and is about to contract 12 more. IDA, on the other hand, will contribute



Page 10
to the pilot project through the financing of 22 additional micro-enterprises during the entire project
implementation period.
On the institutional side, the GOH has implemented the Road Fund and has requested IDA's assistance to
strengthen the Fund's technical and operational capacity. The GOH has also requested IDA continued
involvement with the strengthening of SOPTRAVI's planning group (UPEG).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA has supported the development of the Honduran road sector for a number of years and has
maintained a key policy dialogue on the development of the sector. Assisting the GOH in the
strengthening of the capacity to administer and maintain its road network is a difficult task under the best
of circumstances. IDA was instrumental in focusing GOH's attention on the advantages of contracting
out maintenance and of increasing maintenance funding on a sustainable basis. IDA's experience with
the design and implementation of road funds has been very useful in the establishment of the Road Fund
in Honduras. Under the proposed project, IDA will continue its support in these areas by the
implementation of a pilot project for road maintenance through micro-enterprises and associated TA.
IDA will also continue supporting other institutional building activities begun under the ongoing TSRP.
As mentioned earlier, IDA has been working in very close cooperation with the IRF/UN-ECLAC/GTZ in
assisting SOPTRAVI with the design and implementation of the Road Fund and of the proposed road
maintenance pilot project. Similarly, IDA has been very active in coordinating with all donors the road
and bridge reconstruction and rehabilitation efforts.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex
8)1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$   million; ERR= 27.3%
The benefits from the road improvements can be quantified as they consist largely of vehicle operating
costs (voc) savings accruing to road users. The voc were derived from recent SOPTRAVI information on
operating costs for typical vehicles on roads in both good and poor conditions in Honduras, after adjusting
for taxes and duties. The voc savings vary by vehicle type from 39% (for pickups) to 50% (for large
trucks), which is not unusual given that the road will be improved considerably under the project. Details
on the voc savings by road section and vehicle type are included in the feasibility studies in the project
file. It should be noted that another quantifiable benefit that will accrue would be the savings in travel
time as the improved road surface will allow higher operating speeds.
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)   NPV=US$                    Million; FRR=
The project will support changes in the way in which road subsector expenditures are to be financed.
Road maintenance needs (both routine and periodic) will be financed through the Road Fund. Given the
extensive damage caused to the roads by Mitch, resources from the Fund will mostly be used initially to
bring the network to a "maintainable" condition. Thereafter, the Fund will finance maintenance activities
to the level specified in the Road Fund Law (90% of the Road Fund expenditures are for road
maintenance) and budgetary allocations will be limited to road construction, rehabilitation and
improvements including the counterpart contribution to extemally funded projects.
Fiscal impact:
These will be very modest and well within normal budget parameters. The project's annual investment
needs are small and represent very small shares of both Government expenditures (< 1.0%) and of
revenues from the license fees, fuel taxes, etc. recovered from the transport sector (<2.0%). Similarly, the
future maintenance needs will not represent a fiscal burden. This is because a portion of the fuel taxes



Page 1 1
will be deposited into the Road Fund (Fondo Vial) to finance maintenance activities. This is an adequate
source of funds for the maintenance needs of the roads to be rehabilitated under the project.
3. Technical:
Technical and feasibility studies including final engineering, for the major road works were prepared by
local consulting firms. In view of the excessive damage caused by Hurricane Mitch, special attention was
paid to the road and bridge engineering studies to ensure their adequacy to withstand similar natural
disasters. This is particularly relevant for the road section that was washed out by the Cuyamapa River on
the highway that joins Santa Rita and Yoro (section: El Negrito-Portillo de Chancaya). The final
engineering designs for the major road works are available in the project file.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Project execution will be the responsibility of SOPTRAVI through the Project
Implementation Units (PIU) established under the DGC for the implementation of Credit 2458-HO. The
Road Fund will be responsible for the implementation of the Road Maintenance Pilot Project through
micro-enterprises with a total cost of US$4 million and of TA to strengthen its organization.
b. Project management: As mentioned above, the project would be implemented by DGC's PIU. A
consulting firm will be selected using IDA Consultant Guidelines to assist the PIU with project
coordination (PCU) and with the preparation of the PMRs. The cost of the coordination unit will be
financed by the project. This arrangement has proved satisfactory for the implementation of Credit 2458-
HO.
5. Social:
The preparation and design of the Maintenance Pilot Project through community-based micro-enterprises
involved consultation with the communities along the roads to be maintained. The team involved in the
micro-enterprise selection process visited the communities, discussed the nature of the Pilot with the
population, selected the target community and eventually formed the micro-enterprise from the selected
community. So far, 18 micro-enterprises have been formed and trained of which 6 are already working
and the remaining 12 will be contracted before the end of this calendar year. The preparation of the
Resettlement Plan dated October 3, 2000, for the population displaced by road realignments in the Santa
Rita-Yoro and Rio Dulce-El Porvenir projects (Diagn6stico Socioecon6mico y Plan de Gesti6n Social
para la Adquisici6n de Tierras y el Reasentamiento de Poblaci6n) involved consultation with each of the
affected families and businesses.
Resettlement. The GOH, with the help of consultants, prepared the Resettlement Plan mentioned above
to deal with a limited number of resettlement and land acquisition cases on the Santa Rita-Yoro Road
road (section: El Negrito-Portillo de Chancaya) and on the Rio Dulce-El Porvenir road. The Plan fully
identifies each case, provides a socioeconomic profile of the affected parties, and formulates solutions
consistent with Bank's OD 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement The Plan has been fully endorsed by the GOH
and is acceptable to IDA. The start of the reconstruction/improvement works on these roads is contingent
on satisfactory implementation of the Plan. In the case of the Santa Rita-Yoro road, two families will be
resettled from two small wooden homes which need to be removed by the realignment of the road at this
location. In the case of Rio Dulce-EI Porvenir, 6 dwellings, 4 small businesses (including one which also
used as a dwelling) and I public school, are affected. Not all properties are affected equally. In the case
of the 6 dwellings, 5 will reconstructed in another location, while one will be partially reconstructed at the
current location. The businesses can be reconstructed on the same site. Finally, a small piece of land
owned by the public school will be required for the road. In compensation for this land the school's
sanitary facilities and an open sports area owned by the school will be improved.
6. Environmental assessment:       Environmental Category   [] A    [x] B    []C



Page 12
The proposed project should have only a limited impact on the environment. The proposed short road
realignments will not bring any significant negative impacts. The main impacts would be limited to
those during the execution of the road works (emission of pollutants by the construction equipment and
the asphalt mixing plants, environmental disturbances at quarries, erosion, and run-offs, traffic safety at
construction sites, etc.). They would be mitigated by measures included in the bidding documents and in
the contracts. The contractors will be required to employ environmentally sound work methods and
equipment, and the compliance with this requirement will be enforced by the supervision engineers. An
environmental screening analysis was conducted for every road segment to be reconstructed/rehabilitated.
Also, the project will support additional TA to further strengthen the UGA within UPEG.
As part of the environmental assessment, a study (the Honduran Emerald Habitat Study) is being
conducted to assess the impact of the improvement works of the San Lorenzo-Olanchito road on the
habitat of a rare bird specie known as the Honduran emerald hummingbird (Amazilia Luciae). If the
findings of such study indicate that the area of influence of said works is critical or significant for the
survival of the hummingbird, the Borrower shall prepare and implement an action plan to mitigate any
negative impacts prior to starting the bidding process for the works (see Section 3.10 of the Development
Credit Agreement).
7. Participatory approach:
a. As mentioned under the social analysis (Section 5, above), community involvement was sought during
the preparation of the road maintenance Pilot Project through community-based micro-enterprises. Also,
full consultation was carried out with the affected parties to formulate the Resettlement Plan.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Two factors are essential to ensure the sustainability of the investments on the roads and bridges to be
financed by the Credit: the capability to plan and execute routine and periodic maintenance in a timely
and professional manner, and the availability of adequate funding levels to finance the maintenance
interventions. Both these factors are addressed by the project through the support to be provided for the
implementation of the Road Fund and of the Pilot Project, the provision of TA and training in road
management, planning, programming and budgeting, and the proposed restructuring of DGC to improve
road management.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
. T' 'isk                     Ris    U         I      i *ure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Insufficient GOH commitment to implement    M        1.1 IDA's continuous dialogue with
all project components, particularly those              senior GOH officials.
dealing with institutional reform.                      1.2 Dissemination of information of
"best practice" and potential
benefits from taking action.
2. No interest on the part of communities and  N        2.1 Sufficient time will be spent
on the maintenance pilot project through micro-         during the project preparation to
enterprises                                             ensure all possible options are
examined. The Road Fund has
successfully implemented 6 micro-
enterprises.
2.2 Dissemination of information of
experience in other countries.



Page 13
3. Insufficient coordination among donors on    S       3.1 IDA's continuous dialogue with
institutional reforms.                                  donors, distribution of project
progress reports and donor
participation in key project
milestones.
4. SOPTRAVI does not have the capacity to       M       4.1 Project to include sufficient
implement recommended processes and                     resources to facilitate
reforms.                                                implementation.
4.2 Dissemination of information on
benefits of reforms.
5. Trained staff do not apply acquired skills.  N       5.1 IDA's continuous dialogue with
SOPTRAVI to ensure that the right
staff is trained to staff, and
following training, are assigned to
positions where they can apply the
acquired skills.
From Components to Outputs                              1.1 GOH committed to provide
1. Untimely and inadequate provision of        M        minimum of funding to road
counterpart funds.                                      subsector to implement the
PMRTN.
1.2 IDA will support the
strengthening of the Road Fund to
streamline its operations in order to
ensure, among other things, that
sufficient funds are made available
in a timely way for road
maintenance activities.
1.3 IDA monitoring of annual road
budgets.
2. Delays in project implementation due to slow  S      2.1 IDA will discuss with GOH
internal (GOH) procurement actions.                     officials, ways to expedite internal
processes.
2.2 Procurement actions will be
initiated during project preparation.
3. Delays in the implementation of the          M       3.1 IDA to monitor closely the
resettlement plan for Santa Rita-Yoro and Rio           compliance with the agreed action
Dulce-El Porvenir roads which must be                   plan leading to the implementation
completed prior to starting works on these roads        of the resettlement plan prior to the
(Section 3.11 of DCA)                                   commencement of works.
4. Delays in completing the Honduran Emerald    M       4.1 The study is well underway and
Hummingbird Study which must be ready prior             IDA is monitoring process.
to starting the bidding process for the works on
the San Lorenzo-Olanchito road (Section 3.10
of DCA)
5. Poor performance of contractors and/or       M       5.1 Contracts to penalize poor
consultants                                             performers.
6. Delays in the full implementation of the    M        6.1 IDA will provide TA to assist in
Road Fund                                               implementation and will maintain
the dialogue with GOH officials,
road users and members of
Congress to ensure no undue delays
are encountered.
Overall Risk Rating                             M



Page 14
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(i)   the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Road Fund
(ii)   the project's Operational Manual has been approved by IDA;
(iii)   external auditors satisfactory to IDA have been hired;
(iv)   a financial management system, satisfactory to IDA, has been established within SOPTRAVI and
the Road Fund; and
(v)   the PCU has been established and consultants have been hired.
2. Other
(i)    No bidding for the rehabilitation of the San Lorenzo-Olanchito Road until the Honduran Emerald
Hummingbird Habitat Study has been completed (Section 3.10 of DCA), and no works can start
for the reconstruction of Santa Rita-Yoro (Section: El Negrito-Portillo de Chancaya) and on the
improvement of Rio Dulce-El Porvenir roads until the resettlement plan agreed with the GOH is
implemented (Section 3.11 of DCA).
H: Readiness for Implementation
[x] 1. The final engineering for the works are complete and ready for the start of project implementation.
[x] 2. There is an agreement on the standard procurement documents to be used for all project
components.
[x] 3. The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
\/ywOAm 
[signature]
Team Leader: Guillermo Ruan
[signature]
Sector Manager/Director:    y Leipziger
[signature] CC                   - e A
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Honduras: Road Reconstruction and Improvement Project
Hierachy of ON       s                             . - -                             CW-  Assniti Wns
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . . -  .   . - . t . .   -      -     -  D      '        _ _ _ _ _  _., _.,*- _, _ _L _1 -- -
Sector-related CAS Goal:          Sector Indicators:t          Sector / Country Reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. To deal with immediate         1. Reconstruction,           1. GOH and donor          1. Funds from all sources
reconstruction needs (roads and   rehabilitation and           reports on PMRTN          are made available in a
bridges).                         improvement of roads and    implementation.           timely manner and are
bridges in the PMRTN.                                 managed properly.
2. To support the long term                                    2. IDA assessments.       2. GOH remains
development and reform agenda     2. Institutional                                       committed to the
through institution building.      strengthening.                                       institutional reform in
SOPTRAVI.



Project Development Objective:  Outcome / Impact Indicators:    Project Reports:  (from Objective to Goal)
By the end of the project  Periodic reports     1. The Honduran
1. To restore road access damaged   1 About 100 km of feeder    produced by DGC, Road  economy will resume
by Hurricane Mitch.            roads and 550 m of bridges   Fund, UPEG's planning  positive growth and
will be reconstructed and/or  unit, works supervision   GOH's allocations to the
rehabilitated, improving  consultants, and IDA  road subsector will be
rural access.            mission reports.       adequate and allocated in
a timely manner.
2. To improve trade corridors.  2. About (262 km) of roads
in good condition will be
added to the network,
improving the trade
corridors and accessibility.
Upon completion of these
projects, vehicle operating
costs will be reduced by
35%, and travel times on
average by 20%, on those
roads.
3. To establish a sustainable and    3.1 The Road Fund would be                3.1 GOH and
accountable financial and      operational and maintaining                     SOPTRAVI maintain
institutional setup for the road  not less than 70% of the  .                  their commitment to
subsector.                     national network (main;                         fully implement the
secondary, and feeder                           Road Fund and, country
roads).                                         situation permitting,
funds are made available
in a timely manner
consistent with
maintenance program
established by
DGC/Road Fund.
3.2 Restructuring of DGC                        3.2 SOPTRAVI
would be completed.                             maintains its
commitment to
institutional reform.
3.3 The planning unit within                    3.3 UPEG is adequately
UPEG would have received                        staffed and training
training in HDM-IV and                          opportunities are
would have prepared a                           provided
multi-year road investment
program
3.4 Road inventories                            3.4 Adequate and timely
required to prepare the                         resources are provided to
multi-year road investment                      UPEG to contract
program are carried out in a                    consultants to support its
timely manner                                   data collection program



Output from each component:     Output Indicators:         Project Reports:       (from Outputs to Objective)
By the end of the Project
1. CIVIL WORKS
1.1 Road reconstruction,        1.1 About 262 km of roads    1.1 Monthly consultant   1. GOH remains
rehabilitation, and improvement    will be reconstructed,  supervision reports, IDA  committed to the project
rehabilitated, and improved.  supervision missions,    (works and institutional
and quarterly reports to  reform) and available
be prepared by         resources are used
SOPTRAVI.              efficiently.
2. Communities express
1.2 Rural roads Program         1.2 About 100 km of rural    1.2 Idem             interest in the road
roads will be rehabilitated                       maintenance pilot
project.
1.3 Bridge reconstruction and   1.3 About 550 m of bridge    1.3 Idem             3. Effective coordination
rehabilitation                  will be reconstructed and/or                      among donors on
rehabilitated.                                    institutional reform.
4. SOPTRAVI has the
1.4 Road maintenance pilot project  1.4 22 micro-enterprises  1.4 Reports produced by  capacity to implement
(micro-enterprises).            established providing direct  the Road Fund on micro- recommended processes
employment to about 300   enterprises and IDA     and reforms.
persons                   mission reports.        5. Trained SOPTRAVI
staff apply acquired
skills.
2. CAPACITY BUILDING
2.1 Improve transport sector    2.1 UPEG's planning unit    2.1 Consultant reports,
management capacity with        would have been further    Road Fund reports, and
emphasis on the road subsector.    strengthened in planning and  IDA supervision reports.
programming, DGC will be
restructured, the Road Fund
will be fully operational.



Project Components/Sub-components:  Inputs: (budget for each  Project Reports:   (from Components to
component)                                       Outputs)
1. Road Reconstr./Rehab and                               1. Monthly supervision
Improv.                         US$ 68.8 M                reports produced by    1. Timely and adequate
-Jicaro Galan-El Amatillo (40.2                           consultants            provision of counterpart
km                                                        2. Quarterly reports   funds
-Tegucigalpa-Danli (84 km)                                (PMRs) produced by     2. No delays are
-El Negrito-Portillo Chancaya                             SOPTRAVI               encountered in project
(46.5 km)                                                 3. Annual external audits  implementation due to
-Sn Lorenzo-Olanchito (45 km)                             4. Midterm review      natural disasters or other
- Rio Dulce-El Porvenir (46.5 km)                         5. IDA supervision     type of disruption
missions               3. Procurement actions
2. Rural Roads Bridges Program   US$ 8.5 M                                       are streamlined
4. Contractors and
consultants perform
3. Road Maintenance Pilot       US$4.0 M                                         according to TOR
Project - micro-enterprises                                                      5. Full Road Fund
implementation receives
support from all sides
4. Consultant Services, TA,    US$ 11.5 M
Training and Studies
- Works Supervision                8.1 M
- TA for SOPTRAVI                  0.5 M
- TA for the Road Fund,            0.5 M
- TA for the railways              0.3 M
- TA for Pilot Projects            0.3 M
- Training Program                 0.3 M
- Project Coordination             1.5 M
5. Goods                        US$ 1.2 M
- SOPTRAVI                         0.9 M
- Road Fund                        0.3 M
6. Audit Fees                   US$ 0.1 M
- SOPTRAVI                          0.08
- Road Fund                         0.02
7. Unallocated (contingencies)  US$ 12.7M



Annex 2: Project Description
Honduras: Road Reconstruction and Improvement Project
By Component:
Project Component I -- Road Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Improvement (US$68.8 million)
1.1    Rehabilitation of Tegucigalpa-Danli Highway - (84.0 kin; US$19.2 million - Financing requested to
Spain).  This 84 km two lane section of the CA-6 is part of one of the main Central America corridors. In
addition to serving the Departments of Francisco Morazan and El Paraiso, the road connects Honduras with its
neighboring countries. The rehabilitation of this section will complete the improvement of the corridor between
Tegucigalpa and the border with Nicaragua. The section between Danli and the Nicaragua border at Las Manos,
was rehabilitated under the ongoing IDA Credit 2458-HO. This road is used by Nicaragua to access Puerto
Cortes the main Honduran port on the Caribbean Sea for the export of coffee and other products. This road
carries an average daily traffic of 2500. The required works on the Tegucigalpa-Danli section include: (i) the
improvement of the 20 year old pavement structure and shoulders, including the provision of an asphalt overlay;
(ii) the rehabilitation and repair of bridges; (iii) the improvement of drainage (culverts and ditches); (iv) the
repairing of faults; (v) the implementation of environmental mitigation measures; and (vi) the provision of
vertical and horizontal road signs. Because the road will be maintained within the existing right-of-way, no land
acquisition or resettlement actions are required.
1.2    Rehabilitation of Jicaro Galin-EI Amatillo Highway (40.2 kn;  US$6.3 million   Financing
requested to the Nordic Development Fund). This 40.2 km two lane section of the CA-1 is located in the
southwestern region of the country and is part of the so-called "Natural Corridor". This name is used to describe
the road links that connects all the Central American countries along the corridor that offers the best topographical
conditions (i.e. flat and rolling terrain as compared to the mountainous terrain crossed by the Panamerican
Highway). This section of the CA-1 connects Honduras with El Salvador and carries a daily traffic of 2600
vehicles (38.7% trucks and buses). Although the road has received adequate maintenance in the last few years,
the existing pavement structure is old and needs to be rehabilitated. The required works on the Jicaro Galan-EI
Amatillo section are: (i) the improvement of the pavement structure (a number of options have been considered
and bids will be requested on at least two of the options); (ii) improvement of drainage by the replacement of
damaged culverts and the provision of additional ones; (iii) the implementation of environmental mitigation
measures during construction; and (iv) the provision of vertical and horizontal road signs. Because the road will
be maintained within the existing right-of-way, no land acquisition or resettlement actions are required.
1.3    Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Santa Rita-Yoro (Section: El Negrito-Portillo de Chancaya)
(46.5 km; US$18 million; IDA Financed). The 46.5 km section between El Negrito-Portillo de Chancaya of
the Santa Rita-Yoro road was severely damaged by Hurricane Mitch (it is probably the road most severely
damaged by Mitch in the country). Sections of this road and the bridges were washed out by the hurricane. This
road is part of the main road network and is the main link connecting Yoro to the rest of the country and the
damaged section is located in the Cuyamapa River valley. The daily traffic on this road is 1734 (25.7% trucks
and buses). The road requires extensive reconstruction work including the replacement of 4 bridges and the
construction of retaining walls and river channels to protect the road from the river action.  Alternative road
alignments were considered by the consultants to relocate this road section; however, the topography of the area,
the presence of geological faults on the alternative alignments and the high construction costs, prevented further
consideration of those alternatives. The proposed works, all of which are on the existing alignment, include: (i)
minor realignments within the existing road right-of-way to move the road away from the river; (ii) the
reconstruction/rehabilitation of 6 bridges; (iii) the construction of retaining walls; (iv) the replacement of
existing and the provision of additional drainage; (v) the reconstruction of the pavement structure; (vi) the
implementation of environmental mitigation measures; and (vii) the provision of vertical and horizontal road
signs. Most of the proposed works will be maintained within the existing road right-of-way; however, a small



realignment of the approaches to one of the bridges will require the resettlement of two families for which an
acceptable resettlement plan has been prepared and the GOH is committed to its implementation.
1.4   Improvement of San Lorenzo-Olanchito-(45.0 km; US$11.8 million; IDA Financed).  This 45.0
km two lane road is a section connects the central part of the country with the Aguan River Valley and the Port of
Trujillo on the Caribbean Sea. Most of what is produced in the area is destined to San Pedro Sula and
Tegucigalpa. Sections of this road and several of its bridges were damaged by Hurricane Mitch. The road carries
a daily traffic of 456 vehicles (24.6% trucks and buses). The proposed works include: (i) the upgrading of this
section from a gravel surface to an asphalt surface (double surface treatement - DST) (ii) the improvement of its
cross section; (iii) the rehabilitation/reconstruction of bridges; the provision of additional culverts; (iv) the
implementation of environmental mitigation measures and (v) the provision of vertical and horizontal road signs.
Because the road will be maintained within the existing right-of- way, no land acquisition or resettlement actions
are required.
1.5   Improvement of Rio Dulce-El Porvenir (46.5 kn; US13.5 million; IDA financing). This 46.5 km two
lane road is the most southern section of what is referred to as the "Central Highway" (Carretera Central) that
connects the central part of the country with the Aguan River Valley and the Port of Castilla on the Caribbean
Sea. The road carries and average daily traffic of 624 vehicles (22.7% trucks and buses) and it is expected that
with the completion of the two other sections of the Central Highway, the diverted and generated traffic will at
least double the existing traffic on this road. The GOH is requesting funds from Kuwait to finance the other two
sections of the highway (approximately 74 km). The works to be financed by IDA will include: (i) the upgrading
of this road section from a gravel road to an asphalt surface (double surface treatment -- DST); (ii) the
improvement of its cross section; (iii) the reconstruction/rehabilitation of approximately 12 small bridges to make
them consistent to the improved cross section of the road; (iv) improvement of the drainage system; (v) the
implementation of the environmental mitigation measures; and (vi) the provision of vertical and horizontal signs.
Most of the proposed works will be carried out within the existing right of way; however, some small
realignments to improve the geometrics of the road will affect 6 dwellings, 4 small businesses (including one
which is also used as a dwelling) and a public school. An acceptable resettlement plan has been prepared for
these cases and the GOH is committed to its implementation.
Project Component 2 - Rural Roads & Bridges Program (US$8.5 million; IDA Financed)
This component will finance reconstruction/rehabilitation of about 550 linear meters of bridges involving the
rehabilitation of 100 km of high priority rural roads. The proposed financing will complement the US$50 million
rural roads program being financed by USAID in the Departments of Atlantida, Choluteca, Valle, Colon, Yoro
and Olancho (Approximately 2000 km of unpaved roads will be rehabilitated and 2000 linear meters of bridges
will be constructed/rehabilitated by the USAID program).  Environmental mitigation measures will be
implemented as part of the works. The rural roads and bridges to be financed were selected by SOPTRAVI's
Planning Directorate with the assistance of consultants.
Project Component 3 -- Road Maintenance Pilot Project (US$4.0 million; IDA Financed)
The Credit will finance a pilot project on road maintenance with the participation of local communities through
the formation of micro-enterprises. The proposed pilot project would cover the routine maintenance (vegetation
control within the road's right-of-way, cleaning of culverts and ditches) of 900-1100 km of main roads. Twenty
two micro-enterprises, composed of 10-14 persons each from communities along the 40-50 km road section to be
maintained, would be formed and trained with the assistance of consultants familiar with similar experiences in
Colombia and Nicaragua where the concept has been used successfully for several years. The Government
intends to expand the micro-enterprise program to reach a total of 64 micro-enterprises covering the routine
maintenance needs of the paved network, by the end of the project.



Project Component 4 - Consultant Services/Technical Assistance/Training (US$11.5 million; - IDA
Financed)
The Credit will finance the following services: (i) consultants for the supervision of the works to be carried out
under Components 1, 2 and 3 ; (ii) technical assistance to SOPTRAVI to continue with the strengthening of the
Planning Directorate (Unidad de Planificacion y Evaluacion de Gestion - UPEG), including the Environmental
Unit (Unidad de Gestion Ambiental - UGA); (iii) technical assistance to strengthen the Road Fund organization;
(iv) technical assistance to complete the work begun under Credit 2458-HO on the rationalization of the railways;
(v) technical assistance for the implementation and monitoring of the road maintenance Pilot Project; (vi) the
implementation of a training program for SOPTRAVI and the Road Fund; and (vii) the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) to be contracted with a consulting firm.
Project Component 5 - Goods (US$1.2 million; IDA Financed)
The Credit will finance a limited amount of goods for SOPTRAVI (pavement evaluation equipment, vehicles,
computers) and for the Road Fund (computers, vehicles).



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Honduras: Road Reconstruction and Improvement Project
I .Road Reconstruction./Rehabilitation/Improvement     23.7          45.1           68.8
2. Rural Roads and Bridge Program                       5.1           3.4            8.5
3. Maintenance Pilot Project                            3.6            0.4           4.0
4. Consultants/TA/Training                              2.6            8.9          11.5
5. Goods                                                 -             1.2           1.2
6. Audit Fees                                           0.1            -             0.1
Total Baseline Cost                                    35.1          59.0           94.1
Physical Contingencies                               3.2            4.9           8.1
Price Contingencies                                   1.7           2.9           4.6
Total Project Costs                40.0          66.8          106.8
Total Financing Required           40.0          66.8          106.8
Local  Forigo       ~~Total
Goods                                                                  1.3           1.3
Works                                                  37.3          56.2           93.5
Services                                                2.6           9.1           11.7
Training                                                0.1           0.2            0.3
Total Project Costs                40.0          66.8          106.8
Total Financing Required           40.0          66.8          106.8



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Honduras
Road Reconstruction and Improvement Project
Summary Economic Analysis
Background.
1.    The main roads scheduled for improvement are located primarily in major trade corridors, such as the Natural
Corridor link between Honduras and El Salvador, or in areas of considerable agricultural and tourism development
potential such as Aguan river valley area. The other major components are for bridge replacement and for rural road
improvements. The rural roads program focuses on complementary linkages to the main roads but are themselves
important to the needs of poor rural communities. The bridge reconstruction and repair program forms an important part
of the rural roads program in terms of the restoration of efficient transport links.
2.     All of these segments of the road network suffered substantial damages due to Hurricane Mitch. In order to foster
economic recovery from this catastrophic event, Honduras has enlisted the support of IDA and other Donors for the
completion of an intensive transport restoration program that may involve upwards of $400 million of priority
investments during the next 5 years
Main Roads
3.    The specific subprojects to be financed under this project were selected primarily from the Post- Mitch master
plan (PMRTN). All four main roads selected are of significant economic importance to Honduras. The Tegucigalpa -
Danli section (84 km) links Honduras and Nicaragua at Las Manos and is a key international transit artery, especially for
coffee exports from Nicaragua. The Jicaro Galan - El Amatillo section (40.2km) provides a similar linkage between
Honduras and El Salvador along the Natural Corridor. The two links, el Negrito - Portillo de Chancaya (46.5km) and San
Lorenzo - Olanchito (45km) represent roughly the first and third quarters of the main east-west road in the Rio Aguan
valley, one of the principal agricultural production centers of Honduras that was devastated by Hurricane Mitch. Finally,
the section Rio Dulce-El Porvenir is part of what is known as the Central Highway (Carretera Central) which connects
the central region of the country with the Aguan River Valley and the Port of Castilla on the Caribbean Sea. Detailed
feasibility studies were carried out (using the HDM3) to verify the economic justification of each of these links and
copies of these studies are in the Project Files. However, using the Tegucigalpa - Danli link, key elements of the
rationale, main assumptions and methodology for the economic justification for these investments are illustrated herein.
Traffic
4.    The traffic volumes on the Tegucigalpa - Danli link have been estimated on the basis of counts undertaken
annually by SOPTRAVI that were supplemented by a 7 day, 24 hour traffic count carried out recently by the design
consultants. This additional count was undertaken to help supplement the records and to classify more accurately the
vehicles currently using the road, which are mostly trucks and utility vehicles (50%) Analysis of the data indicated an
annual traffic growth rate of about 6 % throughout the route. The current traffic volume was estimated at about 2500
vehicles per day (vpd). The estimate of future traffic volumes is based conservatively on continued growth of 6% per
annum following project completion. This is in keeping also with the expected growth of GDP and the economic
activities that are likely to follow the road improvement. The actual and forecast traffic levels by road section and by
vehicle type are detailed in the Feasibility Studies included in the Project File.
Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.    The benefits from the road improvements can be quantified as they consist largely of vehicle operating costs
(voc) savings accruing to road users. The voc were derived from recent SOPTRAVI information on operating costs for
typical vehicles on roads in both good and poor conditions in Honduras, after adjusting for taxes and duties. The voc
savings vary by vehicle type from 39% (for pickups) to 50% (for large trucks), which is not unusual given that the road
will be improved considerably under the project. Details on the voc savings by road section and vehicle type are included
in the Feasibility studies in the Project File. It should be noted that another quantifiable benefit that will accrue would be
the savings in travel time as the improved road surface will allow higher operating speeds. These have been quantified and
included in the benefit stream.



6.    There will also be other benefits accruing from the completion of the project. These include (i) potential long
term improvements in the management of the road network due partly to an increased awareness of the role of
maintenance; (ii) improved access for rural populations to health, education, and other services; (iii) improved access to
markets and services for agricultural producers; and (iv) significant improvements in road safety. The latter is particularly
true for sections of the San Lorenzo - Olanchito and Santa Rita-Yoro roads that have been damaged severely enough by
Hurricance Mitch to produce hazardous driving conditions. The road improvement works will also create employment
for about 1100 workers over a 36 month period
Economic Returns.
7.    The economic rate of return for the Tegucigalpa - Danli road was estimated at 23.2%. As discussed above, the
ERR estimate is based primarily on the quantifiable, vehicle related costs and benefit streams associated with the road
improvement. The detailed derivation of costs and benefit streams is included in the feasibility studies but a summary
abstract of the ERR and NPV determination and the sensitivity analysis is included as table 4.1. Adequate routine and
periodic maintenance expenditures were included in the ERR and NPV determinations. Sensitivity analyses, ranging
between a 20% decrease in benefits or increase in costs, and for 10% to 15% traffic diversion rates provide an ERR range
of 19.7% to 20.3%. The switching values on costs and on benefits are quite robust at 78% and 64% respectively. Using
the same methodology, the average overall ERR of 27.3% for the five main roads.
Rural Roads and Bridges
8.    Honduras'  secondary and rural roads networks were particularly hard hit by Hurricane Mitch and their
improvement forms an essential component to the restoration of transport services, particularly in rural areas. The
Government has obtained considerable assistance from USAID in the rebuilding of its rural road network. The target
roads for IDA assistance are located primarily in agricultural production zones that were not included in the USAID
program. They were chosen on the basis of a positive NPV at 10%, the populations and areas served, and the need to
ensure connectivity with other rural roads, secondary and main roads. This resulted in about 250 km of high priority rural
roads in several departments being selected by SOPTRAVI's planning directorate for improvement..
9.     Traffic levels on these roads are in the <100 vpd range.  Of the total, about 100 km of the more heavily
trafficked (>50 vpd) roads will be sealed at a cost of about $25,000 per km using standard asphalt and gravel technologies.
As for bridges, preference will be given to those that are essential to improve connectivity in these rural areas
Risks:
10.   The project is not subject to unusual risks with respect to its implementation and the use of consultants and
contractors with adequate experience will help to minimize the risks. Road maintenance budgets are adequate and the
assistance to be provided under the project in the planning and privatization of road maintenance will help to protect the
road investments and also foster a more efficient use of resources. As for the micro-enterprises, given IDA experience in
other countries, their management and operational requirements are now well known and SOPTRAVI has adequate
mechanisms in place to minimize the risks. Overall, the continued IDA dialogue and the TA to be provided under the
project will help also to reduce project implementation risks.
Distributional Impacts:
11.   Due to the road rehabilitation, the country as a whole will benefit from the reduced vehicle operating costs and
consumption of imported fuel and spare parts. Geographically, residents of the project area will benefit also from the
employment opportunities that will be generated for skilled and unskilled labor during project implementation. The
beneficiaries of the rural road and bridge improvements will include the predominantly poor rural communities living in
scattered villages along the road. Most studies indicate that the income levels of these communities are typically below
national averages. Finally, lower transport costs and easier access by tourists should provide an impetus for increased
economic activities.
Fiscal Impacts.
12.   These will be very modest and well within normal budget parameters. The project's annual investment needs are
small and represent very small shares of both Government expenditures (< 1.0%) and of revenues from the license fees,
fuel taxes, etc. recovered from the transport sector (<2.0%). Similarly, the future maintenance needs will not represent a
fiscal burden. This is because Honduras has imposed an additional surcharge on fuels which will be deposited directly



into the Road Maintenance Fund (Fondo Vial) once it is fully implemented. This is an adequate source of funds for the
maintenance needs of the roads to be rehabilitated under the project.



Annex 4 (Cont.)
Honduras: Road Reconstruction and Improvement Project
Table 4.1: Characteristics and Sensitivity Analysis of Road Sections
Road Sections
Tegucigalpa       Jicaro Galan        El Negrito          Rio Dulce        San Lorenzo
Danli          El Amatillo       P de Chancaya        El Porvenir        Olanchito
Length (Kmn)               84.0              40.2                46.5               46.5                45
Population                244,366           97,564             152,083             112,282            89,382
Economic Costs/Km           229               144                387                 277               252
($ '000)
ERR (%)                    23.2              33.7                26.9               29.3               23.6
B/C Ratio@ 12%              2.3               3.8                 1.9                2.9               2.0
Surface type/condition:
Existing:                  Paved             Paved            Paved/Earth           Earth              Earth
Condition                 Poor              Poor               Poor             Very Poor          Very poor
IRI                       5.0               4.8                 8.3                >10               >10
Proposed:              Asphalt Paved     Asphalt Paved           DST                DST                DST
Condition                Good              Good                Good               Good               Good
IRI                       2.0               2.0                 2.0                2.0                2.0
Traffic Range:
Existing ADT             2500              2600                1734                624               456
Trucks & buses (%)        36                38.7               25.7                22.7              24.6
NPV ($million) @12%:
BasedonVOCand              19.5               12.1               27.5               20.5               11.2
time savings
Sensitivity Analysis:  NPV    ERR    NPV         ERR       NPV       ERR       NPV       ERR      NPV      ERR
$mill   (%/.)    Smill    (%)       $mill    (%)        $mill    (%)    $mill   (%)
Base Case              19.5    23.2    12.1      33.7       27.5     26.9       20.5     29.3     11.2    23.6
Costs +20%             16.6    20.3    11.2      29.7       21.7       -        18.3     25.4      9.3     20.4
Benefits -20%          12.7    19.7    8.8       28.8       21.8       -        14.2     24.6      7.1     19.7



Annex 5: Financial Summary
Honduras: Road Reconstruction and Improvement Project
Years Ending 2006
I Year2 I   Year2    Year3  1 Year 4  I Year 5  I Year 6  I  Total
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            5.5      15.3      21.8       28.3      22.8        9.1     102.8
Recurrent Costs             1.0       1.0       1.0        1.0       0          0         4.0
Total Project Costs            6.5      16.3       22.8      29.3      22.8        9.1     106.8
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   4.0       10.0      14.0       18.0      14.0       6.5       66.5
Government                 0.5        1.3       1.8        2.3       1.8        0.6       8.3
Co-financiers(Spain & NDF)    2.0     5.0       7.0        9.0       7.0        2.0      32.0
Total Project Financing        6.5      16.3       22.8      29.3       22.8       9.1      106.8



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Honduras: Road Reconstruction and Improvement Project
A)    Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank "Guidelines.
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised in January and August
1996, September 1997, and January 1999.); and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants for World
bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997 and January 1999), and the provisions
stipulated in the Development Credit Agreement.
1 )    Procurement methods (Table A)
The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the estimated amounts for each method are
summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
Procurement of Works
Works to be procured under the Credit and totaling about US$93.5 million equivalent (including contingencies)
are the following:   (i) the reconstruction, rehabilitation and improvement of main roads;  (ii)
rehabilitation/reconstruction of rural roads and bridges; and (iii) a road maintenance pilot project through
community-based micro-enterprises. In item (i), IDA will finance US$43.3 million of the cost of the
reconstruction and improvement of three roads; the remaining US$29.3 million will be financed by Spain and the
Nordic Development Fund. The rehabilitation of main roads under IDA financing costing US$1.5 million or
more per contract and $ US$49.8 million in aggregate, will be procured using International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) using IDA-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Pre-qualification of contractors will be used for
contracts costing over US$5 million. Contracts under (ii) costing less than US$1.5 million per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of US$9.8 million may be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB).procedures
using standard bidding documents agreed in advance with IDA. For contracts with community-base micro-
enterprises under (iii), labor-intensive contracts under the maintenance pilot project costing $ 60,000 on average
up to an aggregate amount of US$4.6 million, will be sole contracted directly with community groups based along
the roads to be maintained. Contract pricing will be determined on the basis of standard unit rates developed by
SOPTRAVI and adjusted to specific road segments as applicable.
Procurement of Goods
Goods procured under this project would include: pavement evaluation equipment, vehicles, computers and
miscellaneous office equipment totaling US$1.3 million, including contingencies. Goods packages costing
US$150,000 or more per contract and $ 500,000 in aggregate will be procured following International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using IDA issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Goods packages
costing less than US$150,000 and up to $ 500,000 in aggregate, may be procured using National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures and standard Bidding Documents agreed in advance with IDA. Contracts for goods
which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than US$25,000 per contract, up
to an aggregate amount of US$300,000 may be procured using shopping (National/International) procedures
based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to IDA.
Selection of Consultants
Consulting services will be contracted for this project in the following areas of expertise: supervision of road and
bridge works, technical assistance, road fund and railway privatization specialists, project coordination, and



training specialists. These services are estimated to cost US$12.1 million, including contingencies. Of this total,
US$9.4 will be financed by IDA and would be procured using Bank Standard Request for Proposals.
Firms
All contracts with firms to be financed by IDA with a total cost of US$9.4 million, will be procured as follows:
US$7.4 million will be procured using QCBS procedures; contracts of complex nature costing US$0.8 million in
aggregate may be awarded on the basis of QBS; and contracts for training and technical assistance for the railway
totaling US$0.7 million in aggregate may be awarded on the basis of CQ.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services which do not require of team work may be provided by individual consultants
selected by comparison of qualifications of a short list of candidates. The total amount to be financed is US$0.5
million.
2)    Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity assessment of the Project
Implementation Unit and are summarized in Table B.
B)    Assessment of the Aeencv's Capacity to Implement Procurement
Procurement activities will be carried out by SOPTRAVI's Project Implementation Unit (PIJ) and the Road
Fund. Preparation of bidding documents, procurement processing and filing will be the responsibility of a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and experienced SOPTRAVI staff., following the same practice developed
under Credit 2458-HO. Staffing and operation of the PCU will be contracted with a consulting firm under terms
of reference acceptable to IDA The PCU will be staffed with a coordinator, an experienced procurement
specialist an accountant and administrative staff. The PCU will also be responsible for establishing the
procurement filing system for the project This arrangement worked very satisfactorily under Credit 2458-HO.
The IDB carried out in 1999 a procurement capacity assessment of SOPTRAVI following IDA's methodology.
The assessment identified some institutional weaknesses and made recommendations for improvement of
procurement operations in SOPTRAVI overall. The weaknesses to a large extent stem from the public
procurement law  and administrative procedures that make the process long and cumbersome.  The
recommendations are particularly geared towards management of a substantive increase in operations expected
for the reconstruction effort, some of which may also apply to the project. On the other hand, the assessment also
recognizes that the PCU model followed under Credit 2458-HO helped to overcome the general weaknesses
facing SOPTRAVI. On the basis of the above capacity assessment, complementary work carried out at project
appraisal and the preliminary findings of a Bank commissioned audit of Credit 2458-HO, the following specific
actions will be implemented during project implementation: (i) selection of a consulting firm responsible for
management of the PCU will take place by October 20, 2000; (ii) SOPTRAVI's PIU, the Road Fund and the PCU
selected staff should be required to attend the first available "Basic Procurement", "Procurement of Consulting
Services", and "Disbursement Operations" courses.(iii) a procurement filing system satisfactory to IDA will be
developed and implemented not later than January 31, 2001; (iv) The Project Operational Manual (OM) whose
final version will be available prior to project effectiveness, will describe the procedures to be followed under the
project for procurement, accounting, disbursement and auditing actions. The OM will be updated to include
specific operating and control mechanisms agreed under the financial and physical monitoring system (financial
management system, FMS).
The overall risk for procurement is average.



C)    Procurement Plan
At appraisal, the Borrower and IDA reviewed the Procurement Plan prepared by the Borrower and found it
satisfactory. A summary of it is attached top the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The procurement plan will
be updated and reviewed by IDA annually.
D)    Frequency of Procurement Supervision. Accounting and Auditing Reporting.
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out by the Bank, the one full supervision mission is to
visit the field every six months during the project implementation, to carry out post review of procurement
actions. Based on the overall risk assessment, the post-review field analysis should cover a sample of not less than
I in 10 contracts signed.
Accounting and Financial Reporting:
As a result of the February 1999 financial management assessment, and follow-up visits in April, carried out by a
Bank consultant, it was identified that the Project Implementing Unit (PIU) for the current Credit 2458-HO,
within SOPTRAVI's General Directorate of Roads' (Direcci6n General de Carreteras, DGC) financial system
meets minimum IDA requirements, but does not have Project Management Report (PMR) capabilities. Also, as
the Road fund is in the process of being organized, therefore there is no financial management and procurement
capability. Until the Road Fund is fully staffed and the accounting system is implemented, the DGC will support
the Road Fund to coordinate the appropriate recording and reporting of project disbursements. Action plans with
the PIU and the Road Fund were agreed upon, which include key actions to establish an adequate financial
management system: (a) contracting the project coordination through a private firm (Project Coordinating Unit,
PCU); (b) contracting of a consultant for the design of a financial management system at the PCU, this system
should meets Project Management Reporting (PMRs) as required by the Bank Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI) requirements; and (c) contracting of the external auditors. It is expected that a PMR-compatible
Financial Management System (FMS) would be operational within the second quarter of project implementation.
SOPTRAVI through the PIU, the Road Fund, and the PCU will implement an adequate integrated financial
management system for the project, including internal control systems that:  (i) are in accordance with
international accounting standards; (ii) reliably record and report all assets, liabilities and financial transactions of
the project; (iii) provide sufficient financial information for managing and monitoring project activities; and (iv)
integrates financial information, disbursements, purchasing, procurement, and control of contracts, to allow the
PCU the consolidation and generation of quarterly programmatic financial reports on the financial and physical
advance of each component, as well as financial information by disbursement category. The detail of these
procedures will be contained in the Operational Manual.
Audit Reporting
An external auditor, acceptable to IDA, will be contracted by the PIU to carry out an annual financial audit of the
project. The auditor will be selected according with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
consultants by the World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised in September 1997, so that the interim
audits can be performed throughout each year of project implementation. The project financial statements, the
Special Accounts, SOEs, if applicable, and the PMRs will be audited at the end of each fiscal year during project
implementation. A consolidated audited report for all project components will be submitted to the Bank within
120 days of the close of the project's financial year. The "guidelines and Terms of Reference for Audits of
Projects with Financing by the World Bank in the Latin American and the Caribbean Region" were followed by
the PIU when preparing the terms of reference for the audit and these guidelines should be provided to the
selected auditors. The selected auditors should have been hired by credit effectiveness.



E)    Disbursement Arrangements
Of the total US87.1 million, 57% would be financed by IDA, 34% would be financed by Spain and the Nordic
Development Fund and the remaining amount by the Government.  Table below shows the estimated
disbursements from the IDA Credit by fiscal year.
Implementation FY     2001        2002         2003         2004         2005         2006
Annual                 4.0         10.0         14.0         18.0         14.0         6.5
Cumulative             4.0         14.0        28.0          46.0        60.0         66.5
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
IDA and the Borrower have agreed that if by project effectiveness, the PIU, the Road Fund, and the PCU have not
established a PMR compliant system, the traditional disbursement mechanism Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
will be used for the first two quarters of project implementation, in accordance with the guidelines set put in the
Disbursement Procedures Handbook. Withdrawal applications will be fully documented, except for expenditures
under Goods Contracts below US$150,000, Works Contracts below US$100,000, Consultant Firm Contracts
below US$100,000, Individual Consultant Contracts below US$50,000, and Training. SOEs documentation will
be maintained by the PIU, Road Fund, and the PCU, for post-review and audit purposes. The authorized
allocation(s) to the Special Accounts for Non-PMR disbursements will be set at a level sufficient to cover
approximately four months of estimated expenditures eligible for financing by the Bank, up to maximum
authorized allocations of US$4 million for the components managed by SOPTRAVI's PIU and US$450,000 for
the Road Fund. Replenishments of funds will be made on evidence of satisfactory utilization of the previous
advance(s) as evidenced by the documentation submitted in support of disbursement applications. Deposits into
the Special Account and its replenishments, up to the Authorized Allocations will be made initially on the basis of
Applications for Withdrawals (Form 1903) accompanied with the supporting and other documentation specified
in the Disbursement Handbook. Replenishments for disbursement will be prepared by the PCU.
Use of Project Management Report (PMRs):
By the end of the second quarter of project implementation, or earlier if SOPTRAVI, through the PIU, the Road
Fund, and the PCU are compliant and requests a transition to a full Project Management Report (PMR) system,
the PMRs would serve as disbursement requests. Transition to PMR will be subject to the satisfactory results of
new financial management and procurement assessments. Once the borrower becomes PMR compliant,
disbursements would be in accordance with guidelines set in the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI)
Implementation Handbook. Each application for withdrawal should separately identify the funds requested from
the credit Account by SOPTRAVI and the Road Fund, and would be supported by a Project Management Report
(PMR) or such other documents and evidence as the Bank may request. PMRs should be submitted within 45
days, or earlier, from the preceding quarter. Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal, the Bank, on behalf
of the Borrower, shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Accounts, SOPTRAVI and
Road Fund, an amount equal to the lesser: (a) the amount requested; and (b) the amount the Bank has determined,
based on the PMR accompanying the application, is required to be deposited in order to finance eligible
expenditures during the six month period following the date of the report. The PCU would be responsible for
preparing withdrawal applications and the related PMRs. All supporting documentation authenticating the
expenditures reported in the PMRs would be maintained by the PIU the PCU, and the Road Fund and made
available for review by independent auditors and by the Bank supervision missions. Direct Payments and Special
Commitments should be clearly identified in the PMRs and the PCU shall include the documentation required for
these types of payments.
Special Account:
In order to facilitate disbursements, two Special Accounts will be maintained by the Government in the Central
Bank of Honduras to channel the IDA Credit funds. One of the accounts to be managed by SOPTRAVI, through
the DGC for the implementation of the components under DGC's responsibility. The other will be managed by
the Road Fund for the implementation of the components under the Road Fund responsibility (i.e. Maintenance



Pilot Project, consultant services to the Road Fund and to the Pilot Project, Supervision services for the Pilot
Project and the procurement of equipment). The PCU will be responsible for coordinating and submitting
appropriate separate disbursement applications to request the transfer of funds for SOPTRAVI and the Road Fund
to the respective accounts. Once the PIU and the PCU are PMR compliant, and is certified as such by IDA, and
disbursements are PMR based, any subsequent disbursement from the Credit account would be estimated eligible
expenditures for the next six-months of cash forecast reported in the PMR.
Retroactive Financing
Retroactive financing, about US$5 million, will be provided for eligible expenditures incurred after project
identification began and within 12 months before the expected date for Credit signing. Retroactive financing
must follow IDA procurement and consultant guidelines.



Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$million equivalent)
1. Works                                                                            9385
1.1 Road Reconst./Rehab./improv.     49.8                              29.3         79.1
(43.3)                                         (43.3)
1.2 Rural Roads & Bridges Program                9.8                                 9.8
(8.5)                               (8.5)
1.3 Maintenance Pilot Project                                4.6                     4.6
(4.0)                   (4.0)
2. Goods                              0.5        0.5          0.3                     1.3
(0.5)      (0.5)       (0.3)                   (1.3)
3. Services                                                   9.4       2.7          12.1
(9.4)                   (9.4)
Total                             50.3        10.3        14.3      32.0         106.9
==____________________________   (43.8)          (9.0)      (13.7)       -          (66.5)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other' and details of the items listed as
"N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment Operations."
Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where applicable).



Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
QCBS    QBS        SFB      LCS       CQ      Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms                       7.4      0.8                         0.7               2.7        11.6
(7.4)    (0.8)                       (0.7)                         (8.9)
- Works Supervision            5.7                                                    2.7         8.4
(5.7)                                                              (5.7)
- TA Soptravi                           0.5                                                       0.5
(0.5)                                                     (0.5)
- TA Road Fund                          0.3                                                       0.3
(0.3)                                                     (0.3)
- TA Railways
0.4                           0.4
(0.4)                         (0.4)
- Project Coordination         1.6                                                                1.6
(1.6)                                                              (1.6)
- Training                                                          0.3                           0.3
(0.3)                         (0.3)
- Audit Fees
0.1                                                                0.1
(0. 1)                                                             (0. 1)
B. Individuals                                                               0.5                  0.5
(0.5)                (0.5)
0.3                  0.3
- Pilot Project                                                             (0.3)                (0.3)
- Road Fund                                                                  0.2                 (0.2)
(0.2)                (0.2)
Total    7.4      0.8                         0.7      0.5      2.7         12.1
(7.4)    (0.8)                       (0.7)    (0.5)                 (9.4)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ  = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review2
US $ thousands                               US $ millions
1. Works
>1,500                  ICB                 All /49.8
<1,500                 NCB                    All/9.8
<100              Direct Contracting for   First 2 contracts/4.6
Micro-Enterprises only
2. Goods
>150                   ICB                    All
25-150             NCB                   First 2 contracts
<25              Shopping                 First 2 contracts
3. Services
Firms                     >100              As per Guidelines           All
January 97. Revised
September 97 and
January 1999
<100              As above             TOR and Short list
Individuals                 >50              As above                    All
<50              As above             TOR and short list
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every     month(s) (includes
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
2 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact the
Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Goods                                                  1.3           100
Works                                                 55.8             87
Services (including Audit Fees)                              9.1            100
Training                                                 0.3            100
Total                                                       66.5



Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Honduras: Road Reconstruction and Improvement Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        12                   19
First Bank mission (identification)      _    01/11/1999  _        01/11/1999
Appraisal mission departure                    11/29/1999          04/10/2000
Negotiations                                  01/10/2000           10/02/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 10/16/2000           03/31/2001
Prepared by: SOPTRAVI
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Guillermo Ruan                                       Task Leader
Emmanuel James/Rodrigo Archondo                      Economic Evaluation
Manzoor Rehman                                       Technical Evaluation
Reynaldo Pastor                                      Legal
Michael Fowler                                       Disbursements
Jaime Roman                                          Procurement
J. D. Quintero/E. Correa/G. Ledec                    Environment
Mario Zelaya                                         IDA Field Office Coordination
Luz Zeron/Dan Boyce                                  Financial Management
Stehanie Sheldon                                     Project Assistant



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Honduras: Infrastructure Development
A. Project Implementation Plan
October 2, 2000. Project Implementation Plan.
October 3, 2000. Revised Implementation Letter with Annexes A-D.
Government of Honduras. October 3, 2000. Resettlement Action Plan.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1993. SAR: Honduras Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2458-HO). January.
1999. Honduras Country Assistance Strategy. November.
2000. Evaluation of Aligmnent, Amount of Works, and Budget for the Economic,
Environmental, and Final Design Feasibility Studies of the Construction and Pavement of
the Yoro-San Lorenzo-Olanchito Highway (Evaluacion del Trazado, Cantidades de Obra
y Presupuesto del Estudio de Factibilidad Tecnica Economica, Ambiental y Diseho Final
del Provecto de Construccion y Pavimentacion de la Carretera Yoro-San Lorenzo-
Olanchito). June.
2000. Economic, Environmental, and Final Design Feasibility Study on Highway
Construction and Pavement for Yoro-San Lorenzo-Olanchito Highway. vol. I, Economic
Evaluation (Esudio de Factibilidad Tecnica Economica, Ambiental y Diseno Final del
Proyecto de Construccion y Pavimentacion de la Carretera Yoro-San Lorenzo-Olanchito,
Departamento de Yoro. Informe 1, Evaluacion Economica). June.
C. Other
ECOMAC/SOPTRAVI. 2000. Final Draft - Bridge Program Evaluation (Evaluacion del
Programa de Puentes). April.
Government of Honduras. 1999. National Reconstruction Plan: Portfolio of Programs and
Projects (Plan Maestro de la Reconstruccion y Transformacion Nacional: Cartera de
Programas y Proyectos). May.
Government of Honduras. 1999. National Reconstruction Plan (Expanded version for
Consultative Group Meeting) (Plan Maestro de la Reconstruccion y Transformacion
Nacional: Version Ampliada, Reunion de Grupo Consultivo). May.
Government of Honduras. 1999. National Reconstruction Plan (Summary version for
Consultative Group Meeting) (Plan Maestro de la Reconstruccion y Transformacion
Nacional: Version Resumida, Reunion de Grupo Consultivo). May.
Government of Honduras. 2000. Consultative Group Meeting: Advancements in the
Process of National Reconstruction and Transformation, vol. I (Reunion del Grupo
Consultivo, Tegucigalpa, 7-8 febrero del 2000; Honduras y la Cooperacion



Internacional: Alicnza Estrategica en la Reconstruccion y Transformacion Nacional, vol.
I). February.
Government of Honduras. 2000. Consultative Group Meeting: Advancements in the
Process of Naticnal Reconstruction and Transformation, vol. II (Reunion del Grupo
Consultivo, Tegpcigalpa, 7-8 febrero  del 2000; Honduras y la Cooperacion
Internacional: Aiicaza Estrategica en la Reconstruccion y Transformacion Nacional, vol.
II). February.
HIDROESTUDIOS S.A. 2000. Evaluation of Studies and Designs for El Negrito-
Morazan-Portillc de Chancaya and Group Four Bridges, Final Report (Concepto Sobre
los Estudios y Disehos del Tramo Carretero el Negrito-Morazan-Portillo de Chancaya y
Puentes del Grupo 4: Informe Final). March.
Inter-American Development Bank. 1999. Draft - Hurricane Mitch Reconstruction
Program: Institutional Procurement Evaluation of SOPTRAVI (Programa de
Reconstruccion ante los Efectos del Huracan Mitch: Diagnosnco Instilucional de la
Gestion de Compras y Contrataciones de SOPTRA VI; Borrador). November.
SNC LAVALIN SOPTRAVI. 2000. Final Report: Evaluation and Formulation of the
Local Roads Prc'ram (Evaluacion y Formulacion del Programa de Caminos Vecinales;
Informe Final). Anril.
SOPTRAVIWACI S.L. 1999. Study and Final Design for El Negrito-Morazan-Portillo de
Chancaya and Group Four Bridges (Estudio y Diseino Final del Tramo Carretero el
Negrito-Morazan-Portillo de Chancaya Puentes del Grupo No. 4). November.
SOPTRAVI'CONASH. 1999. Economic Evaluation: Jicaro Galan-El Amatillo Project
(Evaluacion Economica Proyecto: Jicaro Galan-El Amatillo). September.
SOPTRAVI/DGC CONASH. 2000. Economic Evaluation: Jicaro Galan - El Amatillo;
Final Report (Provecto Actualizacion del Estudio de Rehabilitacion Carretera Jicaro
Galan-EI Amatillo: Informe Final: Informe de Evaluacion Economica). January.
SOPTRAVI/DGC CONASH. 1999. Final Engineering Report and Economic Evaluation:
Jicaro Galan - El Amatillo Highway; Final Report (Proyecto Actualizacion del Estudio
de Rehabilitacion Carretera Jicaro Galan-El Amatillo Informe Final: Informe de
Ingenieria). January.
SOPTRAVIIDGC. 1999. Final Report: Economic Feasibility Study on Reconstruction of
Santa Rita-Yoro Highway (El Negrito, Paso Chililenga-Portillo Chancaya Section)
(Estudio de Facnbilidad Tecnico Economica del Proyecto Vial: Reconstruccion
Carretera "Santa Rita-Yoro" Seccion: El Negrito, Paso Chililenga-Portillo Chancaya y
Grupo de Puentes No. 4). December.
SOPTRAVI/DGC. 1999. Final Report: Economic Feasibility Study on Reconstruction of
Santa Rita-Yoro Highway (Santa Rita-El Negrito, Paso Chililenga and Portillo Chancaya-
Yoro Sections) (Estudio de Factibilidad Tecnico Economica del Proyecto Vial:
Reconstruccion Carretera "Santa Rita-Yoro" Seccion 1: Santa Rita-El Negrito, Paso
Chililenga y Seccion H. Portillo Chancaya-Yoro). February.
Z



SOPTRAVI/DGC. 1999. Update to Studv on Rehabilitation of Jicaro Galan-El Amatillo
Highway (Actualizacion Estudio de Rehabilitacion Carretera Jicaro Gaian-El Amatillo).
July.
SOPTRAVI/DGC. 2000. Report on Bridges Proposed for the World Bank Program
(Informe Sobre los Puentes Propuestos al Banco Mundial). March.
SOPTRAVI/DGC/Consorcio GEOCONSULT-ACI. 2000. Technical, Economic,
Environmental, and Final Design Feasibilitv Study of Construction and Pavement of
Yoro-San Lorenzo-Olanchito Highway (Estudio de Factibilidad Tecnica, Economica,
Ambiental y Diseno Final del Proyecto de Construccion y Pavimentacion de la Carretera
Yoro-San Lorenzo-Olanchito, Departamento de Yoro). July.
SOPTRAVI/DGC/PEU. 2000. Final Report, vol. I - Technical and Environrnental
Feasibility Studies for the Final Design of Paving of Rio Dulce-EI Porvenir-Marale-
Empalme Highway (Informe Final, Proyecto: Servicios de Consultoria para la
elaboracion de los Estudios de Factibilidad Tecnicos y Ambientales para la
Actualizacion y Diseno Final de la Pavimentacion de la Carretera Central Rio Dulce-El
Porvenir-Marale-Empalme Carrera Yoro Grupo No. 04-E; vol. 1) . September.
SOPTRAVI/DGC/PEU. 2000. Final Report, vol. II - Technical and Environmental
Feasibility Studies for the Final Design of Paving of Rio Dulce-EI Porvenir-Marale-
Empalme Highway. (Informe Final, Proyecto: Servicios de Consultoria para la
elaboracion de los Estudios de Factibilidad Tecnicos y Ambienmales para la
Actualizacion y Diseno Final de la Pavimentacion de la Carretera Central Rio Dulce-El
Porvenir-Marale-Empalme Carrera Yoro Grupo No. 04-E; vol. II). September.
SOPTRAVI/DGC/SEICO. 1999. Annexes to the Final Report: Periodic Road
Maintenance of the Paved Road Network Tegucigalpa-Danli; Highvay Rehabilitation
Study Tegucigalpa-Danli (Mantenimiento Periodico de Caminos de la Red Vial
Pavimentada Grupo 18Vf "Tegucigalpa-Danli ": Anexos del Informe Final). May.
SOPTRAVIWConsorcio GEOCONSULT-ACI/IBRD. 1999. Economic Feasibility Study
for Construction and Pavement of Yoro-San Lorenzo-Olanchito Highway, vol. 6 (Estudio
de Factibilidad Tecnica del Proyecto de Construccion y Pavimentacion de la Carretera
Yoro-San Lorenzo-Olanchito, Departamento de Yoro, vol. 6). December.
*Including electronic files.
3



Annex 9
HONDURAS
Statement of Loans/Credits
Country Summary as of August 31, 2000
Country Department: Central America Country Department
Region: LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Number of Loans/Credits
Pool       Non-Pool        B-Loans        SCL           SCP         IBRD          IDA      Total
Disbursing                      0              0              0            0            0             0           13           13
Total                           9             27              0            0            9            45           40           85
Loans/Credits Summary in USD
IBRD          IDA          TOTAL
Original Principal:    717,250,001   1,014,353,962   1,731,603,963
Cancellations:          26,269,346        881,635     27,150,981
Disbursed:             690,980,656    900,678,638   1,591,659,294
Undisbursed:                    0    101,413,506    101,413,506
Repaid:                531,464,756     24,110,737    555,575,493
Due:                   155,057,248    825,832,187    980,889,435
Exchange Adjustrnent:    5,530,646             0       5,530,646
Borrower's Obligation:    160,587,893    825,832,187    986,420,080
Sold 3rd Party:          4,458,653             0       4,458,653
Repaid 3rd Party:        4,458,653             0       4,458,653
Due 3rd Party:                  0              0              0






Annex 10
Honduras at a glance                                                               0910912000
Latn    Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America   mIddle-
Honduras   & Carib.  income        Developmrnt diamond
1999
Population, mid-year (myillons)                        6.3       509      2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                     760      3.840     1,200
GNP (Atlas method. USS bilNons)                        4.8      1.955     2.513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                         2.8        1.6       1.1 
Labor force (%)                                        3.8        2.5       1.2      GNP                              Gross
per                       -     primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199349S)                               capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of populafion below nahonal poverty line)    53
Urban population (% of total population)                52        75        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        69        70        89
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 lve births)                36        31        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              25         8        16   |             Access to sfe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)       65        75         86
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   28         12        16
Gross primary enrollment (% of shool-age populabon)    111       113       114                Honduras
Male                                                110                  114          -     Lower-middle-income gmup
Female                                              112                 11       _      ___   _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      19S8      1t      i
Economnic rntlos
GDP (USS bi/lions)                            2.3      5.2        5.2       5.4 4
Gross domestic investment/GDP                26.8     19.1       30.8      32.9                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            36.6     29.0      47.2      42.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   22.0     13.7       24.8      19.1
Gross national savings/GDP                   18.0      9.9       25.3      22.9
Current account balance/GDP                  -8.8     -7.9       -5.5     -10.0     OOmestic
Interest payments/GDP                         2.7      0.9        3.5       3.2     Savins                         nvestmnent
Total debt/GDP                               52.6     65.5       95.3      99.4      a
Total debt service/exports                   20.5     12.6       18.2      13.4
Present value of debt/GDP                                       61.4
Present value of debtWexports                                  116.2
Indaebtedness
197949  1989.-9     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  2.4      3.2      2.9       -1.9       5.3               1Honduras
GNP per capita                      -0.7      0.8      0.4       -3.9       2.8                 Lower-middibincome group
Exports of goods and services        0.5      1.5      0.3       -9.4       9.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY_
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growthofinvbst andGOP)
(% of GDP)                                                                          30
Agriculture                                  25.6     21.1       19.2      16.2
Industry                                     24.4     24.7       30.4      31.9       t
Manufacturing                              15.1     15.0       1 8.6     19.6:     1
Services                                     50.0     54.2       50.4      51.9
Private consumption                          67.0     72.0       65.3      69.4    -to      94   Q$           5?   to
General govemment consumption                10.9     14.3       10.1      11.4                -G     I       _;    P
imports of goods and servic                  41.4     34.4       53.3      56.7
197949  1191-9        1998      19        Growth of exports and lipoe   )
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   2.4      2.4       -2.9      -8.7    1S
Industry                                      2.9      3.5        4.2       4.0    10
Manufacturing                               3.0      3.8        3.4       2.8 S       s
Services                                      2.3      3.5        5.6      -0.2
0
Private consumption                           2.8      3.0        3.4       0.8     4       a /S        r           n     r
General govemment consumption                 3.9     -0.8       21.7      10.9
Gross domestic investment                     0.0      8.0        2.8       4.7    10
Imports of goods and service                  0.1      3.6        5.9       6.7         Gs0rt                      por
Gross national product                        2.5      3.7        3.3      -1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary es1iliat.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (In bold) compred with h intcorm-group average. V data ae msing. the dhmond wEi
be incomplete.



Honduras
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestkc prices                                                                     40
(% change)
Consumer prices                                         9.9      13.7      11.6    30              _
Implicit GOP deflator                        11.5      7.1       11 0      11.1    20-
Government fHnance                                                                .o
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  0
Current revenue                                                  18,8      19.4             94    95   96   91   98   99
Current budget balance                                            4.1       2 8                  GDP eflator       CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                          -1 7      -4.4                                              1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979    1989        1998      1999     Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..    903        1.657     1,304   |     -
Bananas                                              352        176        38
Coffee                                               191        430       256     2.000,
Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                                  1.045      2.445     2,718
Food                                                 172        364       397     1.000O
Fuel and energy                                      146        214       256
Capital goods                                        220        615       724
9    09    g  6          00se g
Export price index (1995=100)                           98         94       90
Import price index (1995=100)                           76         93       91                  aExports      iirnipons
Terms of trade (1995=100)                              129        102        99   i                               -------
UALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP [%l
(US$ rnillions)
Expons of gooos and sevices                   838    1,061      2,476     2,312      0
Imports of goods and services                 930    1.273      2.797     3,055
Resource balance                              -92    -213        -322     -743       -4
Net income                                   -120     -240       -209      -160   1
Net current transfers                          14       43        241      365   |l               i -l
Current account balance                      -198     -410       -290      -538     u2   .
Financing items (net)                         218      364        458      880
Changes in net reserves                       -20       45       -168     -342    .1-
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)         ..       28        770     1,209
Conversion rate (DEC, IocalVISS)              2.0       2.0      13.4      14.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,184    3,386      5,002     5,356
IBRD                                        132      528       235       185                  G:482   A: 185
IDA                                          47       79       579       841                                  a 841
Total debt service                            179      142        505      367            F:415
IDA                                           1        0          6        7                                      C. c2t0
Composition of net resource flows
Oflicial grants                              21       71        163      210
Oficialecreditors                            86       86         19      158        E 1488
Private creditors                            83       43        109      -35
Foreign direct investment                    28       51         84      222
Portfolio equity                              0        0                                                    D: 1,737
Wortd Bank program
Commitments                                  35        0         S9       61      A - BRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                32        2         64      273      8- IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          4        0         50       49      c- IMF                      G - Short-tenm
Netflows                                     29        2         14      224
Interest payments                            11        1         24       22
Net transfers                                17        1        -10      202
Development Economics



MAP SECTION






IBRD 30889
-/  U  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ sIAs CE                                                                                                        HONfl~~~~~~~URAS
LABAIA&CNTCTQ
16 ~    ~~~~~~~~ >'0' G ef .o  :;(    :T                                    ::                                                                                                         :ia:"0f Hvn&'r:os  : ,:    IC  .  $ i Y M N   PRO'      ; 0  1  JE'CT""''  9i   n      00i(;i
,. r       N   jO                   F i         dpo i:   j,;,P  ;;K-7->             ; ::yt6X-          .'l                                      4r-wFTrieOASi:.}0
o,flfsrrr,                                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x   -
G UALTM7E   LA               i        'c)tUKItro><fA     t f          AtD LA  --JoUiOr   L Ns  8 .ui. ^:Rr;j   it ..i.;g i;   
Son P dro   2>    ~ ~~T%,ip-                             -,r5C,.;
~~~~~~ C R cono  5    p   I                                                                           . :..)s                               I                                       oc                     Cy|a  r; :;,ib.heangi s,:i ;  ;. 
XE;Pal=jso=  / --2/tArocoR 0    '>6'  f    Ti9no               oVsgoo                         *      Seue>              ueabedCm>                          
ET  i  CO,ealoTEooo        Po   ros r    _             o.d           -rr ,.o                                      /           j.
,-                                          )                                                                                               ?ib-bSea
-C  SAN TA  Rio 4rorocnos                                                      p                                                     /         Q0~~~~~~~~~~~~~RCIA A   io
EI P-ik5                                                                     I       o \;- j-_                                        C   tA i|
YCOP            LojoSn    5t0I                                                             -Mnl        A 
G.oio5od sR                   Nccco *E                                     Mon       ERcooD'-A   *SncaO  ao   o/o Roan, 0c            -r             N                 R A G         U            0-          
/5                             N"I' Co   Ri\ que -                                                      . 0                                                 : p                                                                                  r;   o  /
g;~~~ ~~ El                                                 S                                                                              Krni0 e/D k z                            !E:;
-,d                 Li t0                \b>i
To ~  ~        ~       ~        fS>Uge (lDz \> rGan )Mrlia <EV%OA4AAG(J                       <               J -RJC ROD icilcolc                      R:s Ro    -j7
P UE,.                INTIBUJC           -4omyo,uo  FRAN             Q50jo
r            N0                     Lo    "1   '           y        a-         Do   >                 /    3    =     SEONDARYROAD ~l;; 40ji :jE00-djt:i
i LEMPIRA        Espeo iA                                 T r   n i          c :0,
MP0/0n nrM  i           T    y I  Lac    s    s   T'        o   ~   .c     or  L- .- -t  I       -,
M C., coo%.tQO'                 s-                :r:|                             , cndo  '2r.
EL SALVADORT/                                                   r     -  ,o       KZT ?~                                                        RJCRASO
a."gMal AIl  VA L. L E  nCa-R ono oinEICN-n4
CHOLf4TECA  -?sMoc sCo                                                       MioOD                                              -'x~                                  R
~~  5~~5POO  p' ~~~~~ Cholcioca ~~~~~SECONDARY ROADS                                                                         9--
9  Xc  >                 /    -                                                   0-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~~~~ ~RAILROADS
0~~~5OOOy,9  g, rio                                         + ~~~~~~~~~ AIRPORTS                                                                          e0n
In                                                         -c' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVRRS
2'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
/  1                                                           a   ~~~~~~~~~~~                                          ~    ~~~~~~~~LANDMARKS  a ~ $r            A
o SELECTED CITIES
K.                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(  DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
* NAT ONAL CAPITAL                                                   >.0
- -DEPARTMENTE BOUNTDARIES                            FA      l       SNSI4,C
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -  INTERNATIONoAL BOUNDARIES                                                                       -      Ot--.;
OCRTOBR 2/n/n



