Page  1
CONFORMED
January 26, 1999
Lic.
Gabriela Nuñez de Reyes
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C., Honduras
Re:  Japanese Grant for a Rural and Main Roads Project
Grant TF025614
Dear Madam:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate 
IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an 
amount not exceeding five-hundred and fifty-five thousand Dollars (US$555,000) (the Grant) 
to the Republic of Honduras (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for 
the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  
The Recipient hereby confirms its request that IDA carry out the activities described in 
paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to 
contract the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt 
by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will 
become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/  Donna Dowsett-Coirollo
Country Director, Central America
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
Page  2
By: /s/ Gabriela Nuñez de Reyes
Title: Minister of Finance
Date: January 26, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the preparation of the Rural and Main Roads 
Project (the Project), which has as main objectives to support the Recipient’s plan to 
rehabilitate and improve sections of the main road corridors which connect the territory of the 
Recipient with neighboring countries, and also to design and implement a rural roads pilot 
project. The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
Needs Assessment and Selection:
Review of existing information for the proposed main road sections that would be 
financed under the Project so as to bring it to the level of detail required for final engineering, 
including the confirmation of the technical and economic feasibility of the various 
subprojects, as well as the environmental requirements; and
identification of issues and problems in the present provision of 
adequate road infrastructure and transport services in the poverty areas 
under consideration for the Project, including financial and human 
resource mobilization.
Evaluation and Design:
Development and application of technical, economic, social and environmental 
evaluation criteria for the selection of the road sections to be financed under the Project;
carrying out of a social assessment of the pilot project area; and
design of the pilot road maintenance projects, including ways of 
carrying out maintenance activities, institutional arrangements to ensure 
sustainability of maintenance works, possible maintenance cost sharing 
arrangements, and supervision arrangements.
Report Preparation:
Preparation of specifications for the rural road works and identification of the nature and 
amount of work to be carried out for each of the rural road sections to be financed under the 
Page  3
Project;
development of monitorable targets and project performance indicators; 
and
preparation of terms of reference for the consultants’ services to be 
financed under the Project.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services and office equipment required for 
the Activities.
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient shall 
cooperate with IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the Activities promptly 
and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify 
IDA against any costs or liabilities incurred by IDA as a result of claims against IDA in 
connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful 
misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by April 30, 2000.  After that date, 
IDA may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) and the 
procurement of the office equipment required to assist in the carrying out of the Activities 
shall be the responsibility solely of IDA and shall be done according to IDA’s applicable 
procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the 
territory of the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than 
nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the Activities. 
Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time suspend or, after 
consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for 
the Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient 
has failed to perform any of its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the 
Recipient or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement 
with IDA shall have been suspended. IDA may also terminate the right of the Recipient to 
receive Grant funds if: (a) IDA has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, 
to withdraw its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s 
assistance in the financing of the Project. 
8.
IDA is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant 
that is not expended by IDA pursuant to this Agreement.
Page  4
