                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000712




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IDA-34320 IDA-3432A)




                         SPECIFIC INVESTMENT LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 51.20 MILLION
                       (US$ 66.50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

                                   FOR THE

           ROAD RECONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT



                                December 18, 2007


Sustainable Development Department
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
            (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2000)

                     Currency Unit= Lempiras LC
                         LC 1.00 = US$ 0.067
                         US$ 1.00 = LC 15.00
                            FISCAL YEAR
                       [January 1 ­ December 31]


               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CABEI    Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DGC      General Roads Directorate
         (Dirección General de Carreteras)
DGCCA    General Road Maintenance Directorate
         (Dirección General de Conservación de Carreteras y Aeropuertos)
ECLAC    The Economic Commission for Latin America
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GNP      Gross National Product
GOH      Government of Honduras
HDM      Highway Design and Maintenance Model
IADB     Inter-American Development Bank
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IRI      International Roughness Indicator
JICA     Japanese International Cooperation Agency
LAC      Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LACI     Loan Administration Change Initiative
MCA      Millennium Challenge Account
NPV      Net Present Value
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PDO      Project Development Objective
PMRTN    Master Plan for National Reconstruction and Transformation
         (Plan Maestro de la Reconstrucción y Transformación Nacional)
PRRI     Remedial Involuntary Resettlement Plan (Plan Remedial de
         Reasentamiento Involuntario)
SEFIN    Ministry of Finance
         (Secretaría de Finanzas)
SOPTRAVI Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Housing
         (Secretaría de Obras Públicas, Transporte y Vivienda)
TSRP     Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project
UGA      Environmental Management Unit

                      (Unidad de Gestión Ambiental)
UPEG                  Planning and Evaluation Unit
                      (Unidad de Planificación y Evaluación de Gestión)
USAID                 U.S. Agency for International Development



                                          Vice President: Pamela Cox
                                      Country Director: Jane Armitage
                                        Sector Manager: Jose Luis Irigoyen
                                 Project Team Leader: Stephen Brushett
                                     ICR Team Leader: Stephen Brushett
                                                      HONDURAS

                  Road Reconstruction and Improvement Project


                                                      CONTENTS


Data Sheet............................................................................................................................ i
   A.  Basic Information..................................................................................................... i
   B.  Key Dates................................................................................................................. i
   C.  Ratings Summary..................................................................................................... i
   D.  Sector and Theme Codes ......................................................................................... i
   E.  Bank Staff ................................................................................................................ i
   F.  Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................... i
   G.  Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................. i
   H.  Restructuring............................................................................................................ i
   I.  Disbursement Graph ................................................................................................ i
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes.............................................................................................. 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................. 18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.............................................................................. 26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..................................................................... 31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................... 36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................... 36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR......................... 38
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders........................... 46
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 47
MAP.................................................................................................................................. 48

A. Basic Information

                                                                     HN ROAD
                                                                     RECONSTRUCTION
Country:                Honduras               Project Name:
                                                                     AND
                                                                     IMPROVEMENT
Project ID:             P057538                L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-34320,IDA-3432A
ICR Date:               12/18/2007             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                     HONDURAS
Original Total
                        XDR 51.2M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 51.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
SOPTRAVI
Fondo Vial
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/07/1999     Effectiveness:        11/06/2001        11/06/2001
Appraisal:             04/10/2000     Restructuring(s):                       01/29/2007
Approval:              11/07/2000     Mid-term Review:      08/20/2004        10/22/2004
                                      Closing:              03/31/2006        09/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory    Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Highly Satisfactory    Performance:          Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators          (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              10                 10
Roads and highways                                             90                 90


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Natural disaster management                                   Primary           Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                             Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                       David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Makhtar Diop                     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:           Jose Luis Irigoyen               Danny M. Leipziger
Project Team Leader:      Stephen J. Brushett              Guillermo Ruan
ICR Team Leader:          Stephen J. Brushett
ICR Primary Author:       Oswaldo Patino



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the Project were: (a) to restore roads damaged by Hurricane Mitch,
which struck Honduras in October 1998; (b) to improve trade corridors; and (c) to
establish a sustainable and accountable financial and institutional set-up for the road sub-
sector.

  The performance indicators to measure the achievement of the project#s objectives
were: (i) verification that traffic volumes and vehicle operating costs on the upgraded
roads meet those projected in the feasibility studies; (ii) implementation of the road



                                             ii

maintenance pilot project through micro-enterprises; (iii) verification that the Road Fund
is financing the maintenance of at least 70% of the national network by the end of the
project (main, secondary and feeder roads); (iv) kilometers of main and rural roads and
meters of bridges to be reconstructed / rehabilitated

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
There were no revisions to the project development objectives (PDO). The project was
restructured January 29, 2007 without changes in the PDO. Project key indicators were
not revised with the following exception: As part of the first amendment to the credit
agreement countersigned December 2005, GOH agreed to the following changes to the
Implementation Letter: (A) (i) funds were to be allocated to the Road Fund sufficient to
meet at least respectively of 40% in 2001, 55% in 2002, 65% in 2003 and 70% in 2004 of
the maintenance needs on the national network; (ii) maintenance on the main road
network will be prioritized to ensure 100% of the requirements are met from 2006
onwards; (iii) further actions will be taken to assure 100% of national road network
requirements are met by 2010. (B) (i) number of micro-enterprises providing routine
maintenance eon the paved network will increase as follows 22 in 2001, 44 in 2002 and
64 in 2003. (ii) from 2005, a sufficient number of micro-enterprises will be contracted
and financed to meet 100% of the needs on the paved road network.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target    Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value       Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
                                              approval        Target       Completion or
                                            documents)        Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   To restore road access damaged by Hurricane Mitch
                                         By the end of the
                                         project -- about
                                         100 km of rural                 103 km of rural
Value           No or limited road accessroads and 550 m                 roads and 566 of
quantitative or as a result of Hurricane of bridges will be              bridge
Qualitative)    Mitch                    reconstructed
                                         and/or                          improvements have

                                         rehabilitated,                  been completed

                                         improving rural
                                         access
Date achieved 10/16/2000                 11/09/2000                      06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Objective achieved more than 100%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   To improve trade corridors
                                         About 262 km of                 Improvements of

Value                                    roads in good                   about 238 km

quantitative or Trade corridors in bad   condition will be               completed. Vehicle

Qualitative)    condition                added to the                    operating cost and
                                         network. Upon                   time saving are in
                                         completion,                     excess of original



                                              iii

                                          vehicle operating                  estimates
                                          costs will be
                                          reduced by 35%,
                                          and travel time on
                                          average by 20% on
                                          those roads.
Date achieved 10/16/2000                  11/09/2000                         06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Completed to about 95% of the original target vlaues in kilometers
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  To establish a sustainable and accountable financial and institutional setup for the
               road subsector
                                          The Road Fund
                                          would be                           Substantial. Road

                                          operational and                    Fund met 65% of
                                                                             national network
Value                                     maintaining not                    requirements by
quantitative orWeak financial and         less than 8% of the                end of project, with
Qualitative)   institutional setup        national network
                                          by close of project.               commitment to

                                          Complete                           meet 85% by 2010.

                                          restructurin of                    DGC restructuring

                                          DGC.                               completed.

Date achieved 10/13/2000                  06/29/2007                         06/29/2007

Comments       Road fund targets were modified 12/05 Rate of achievement in meeting

(incl. %       intermediate targets was as follows# 2001 # 34% 2002 # 42% 2003 # 55%

achievement)   2004 # 49%. And whereas 100% of main road maintenance was to be met from
               2006, the rate of achievement was 95%.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                         Achieved at
                                               approval         Revised         Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Civil Works:
               Kilometers of Road reconstructed, rehabilitated, and improved

                                          About 262 km of                    About 238 km have

Value                                     road will be                       been reconstructed,

(quantitative  Roads in bad condition.    reconstructed,                     rehabilitated or

or Qualitative)IRI in range 5-7           rehabilitated, and                 improved. Av. IRI

                                          improved                           ex post in generally
                                                                             under 2
Date achieved 10/16/2001                  06/29/2007                         06/29/2007
Comments       About 34 km of Tegucigalpa-Dali improvement could not be completed due to
(incl. %       implementation delays and insufficient funds. Financing for the section still to
achievement)   be completed is to be mobilized though the Government of Spain and CABEI
Indicator 2 :  Rural roads rehabilitated
Value          Rural Roads in bad         About 100 km of                    103 km. of rural
(quantitative  condition                  rural roads will be                roads rehabilitated



                                               iv

or Qualitative)                            rehabilitated
Date achieved 10/13/2000                   06/29/2007                      06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %       103% rate of achievement
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Bridge reconstructed and rehabilitated
                                           About 550 m of
Value                                                                      566 meters of
               bridges damaged because     bridge will be
(quantitative                              reconstructed                   bridge

or Qualitative)of Mitch                    and/or                          improvements have

                                           rehabilitated.                  been completed

Date achieved 10/13/2000                   06/29/2007                      06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %       102% rate of achievement. Review carried out in 2002 identified structural

achievement)   weaknesses in some bridges. These were fully and effectively remedied by 2004

Indicator 4 :  Road maintenance carried out throug micro-enterprises (ME) pilot program
                                                                           Total of 70 ME
                                           22 micro-                       were established
                                           enterprises                     employing 889
Value                                      established                     persons. 36 of these
(quantitative  No micro- enterprise        providing direct                ME were funded by
or Qualitative)program in place            employment to                   the Bank through
                                           about 300 persons               2006. 2, 700 km are
                                           from 2005)                      now under
                                                                           maintenance
Date achieved 10/13/2000                   06/29/2007                      06/29/2007
Comments       The pilot program was extremely successful and was scaled up considerably
(incl. %       during the life of the project. The program was fully funded by GOH resources
achievement)   at project completion
               Capacity Building:
Indicator 5 :  Improve transport sector management capacity with emphasis on the road
               subsector.
                                           UPEG#s planning
                                           unit would have
                                           been further
                                           strengthened in
                                           planning and
                                           programming -                   DGC has been

                                           training in HDM;                restructured. UPEG

Value                                      preparation of a                has been

(quantitative  Weak sector management      multi-year                      strengthened and

or Qualitative)capacity                    investment                      the projected

                                           program, and                    training carried out.

                                           carrying out of                 The Road Fund is

                                           road inventories.               operational

                                           DGC will be
                                           restructured, the
                                           Road Fund will be
                                           fully operational



                                                 v

Date achieved 10/13/2000                   06/29/2007                           06/29/2007
Comments       A multi-year road investment program was prepared in 2005. Additionally
(incl. %       during the project life, capacity for environmental management was
achievement)   substantially improved, through the creation of a new unit (UGA).


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived                DO                           IP                  Disbursements
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     12/22/2000           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     02/01/2001           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       0.00
  3     07/27/2001           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       0.00
  4     04/29/2002           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       7.95
  5     11/27/2002           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      14.16
  6     05/29/2003           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      24.86
  7     11/29/2003           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      32.40
  8     05/28/2004           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      38.74
  9     11/30/2004           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      41.80
  10    05/23/2005           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      47.79
  11    08/24/2005           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      48.94
  12    11/30/2005           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      52.78
  13    02/06/2006           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      53.93
  14    04/18/2006           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      54.02
  15    09/15/2006           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      63.24
  16    03/15/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      71.97
  17    08/09/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      72.46



H. Restructuring (if any)

                               ISR Ratings at        Amount

 Restructuring     Board        Restructuring Disbursed at         Reason for Restructuring &
     Date(s)     Approved                         Restructuring
                PDO Change                                              Key Changes Made
                                  DO       IP         in USD
                                                     millions
                                                                  The Project was restructured
                                                                  January 29, 2007 for the
                                                                  following reasons: (i) the
                                                                  formal inclusion of a new sub-
                                                                  component of the Project #
   01/29/2007         N            S        S           69.92     civil works for the improvement
                                                                  of the Taulabe to La Barca
                                                                  section; (ii) the modification of
                                                                  another sub-component of the
                                                                  Project # the improvement of
                                                                  the San Lorenzo # Olanchito



                                                vi

                        ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring   Board   Restructuring Disbursed at  Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)    Approved                Restructuring
             PDO Change                                  Key Changes Made
                         DO     IP      in USD
                                        millions
                                                   section # to include only studies
                                                   and not works. This was a
                                                   second tier restructuring in that
                                                   it involved significant changes,
                                                   but none in the Project#s
                                                   development objectives or in
                                                   the associated outcomes




I. Disbursement Profile




                                    vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

       In 1998, Honduras ranked among the least developed countries in the Western
       Hemisphere. It was the third poorest country in LAC with a GNP per capita of
       US$ 730. Unprecedented damage was caused to the physical infrastructure of the
       country when Hurricane Mitch struck the country in October 1998. An estimated
       5,660 people died, over 8,000 disappeared and 12,270 were injured. Winds blew
       at speeds of about 285 km/hr and over a meter of rain fell in some areas. The
       Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLAC) estimated that the cost of
       damage incurred on roads, bridges and telecommunication infrastructure was
       about US$571.4 million (about 11 % of the GDP). Nearly 60% of the road
       network was affected; 100 bridges were either destroyed or severely damaged.
       The main trade road corridors suffered extensive damage to the point that
       Tegucigalpa and other towns were cut off from the rest of the country for several
       days. The San Pedro Sula airport was flooded and shut down for one week. A
       number of regions suffered from isolation as roads were buried under mud slides
       and from loss of power as lines went down.

       When Hurricane Mitch struck, the government (GOH) was completing the
       implementation of the Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project (TSRP, Credit
       2458-HO). The TSRP was scheduled to close on December 31, 1998 with most
       project targets fully achieved and, in some cases, exceeded. Some of the works
       financed under the project were damaged by the hurricane and this prompted the
       GOH to request an extension to its Closing Date to provide support to
       infrastructure repair. Thus on January 7, 1999, IDA approved a Supplemental
       Credit of US$20 million to Credit 2458 to assist the GOH with the immediate
       road and bridge reconstruction/repair needs. The Supplemental Credit was
       implemented and completed satisfactorily.

       During the implementation of the IDA-financed TSRP, several positive
       developments took place in the road sector including: (i) shifting from road
       maintenance by force account to road maintenance by contract (100%); in the
       process, the staff of the General Road Maintenance Directorate (DGCCA) was
       reduced from 5,500 to 700; (ii) design and implementation of the Road Fund
       which was originally approved by Congress in December 1993, but which
       eventually became operational only in June1999; (iii) financing of road
       rehabilitation works (main, secondary and feeder roads) and bridge rehabilitation
       and construction; (v) financing the rehabilitation of the runway at the San Pedro
       Sula Airport; (vi) creation of, and provision of training for, a road unit within the
       planning unit of SOPTRAVI (UPEG --Unidad de Planificación y Evaluación de
       Gestión) to handle the economic evaluation, planning and programming of road
       investments; and (vii) design and implementation of a bridge management
       system (HONDUSAP) for the evaluation and prioritization of bridge



                                            1

        reconstruction.

        TSRP made significant contributions to the improvement of the transport sector
        of Honduras, but an unfinished agenda was left to be dealt with. On the one
        hand, there remained a number of key projects to be implemented in regard to
        the restoration of roads and bridges damaged by Hurricane Mitch. On the other
        hand, there was the need to support the investment requirements and the
        institutional framework needed to carry forward the development of the road
        sector in line with national goals. GOH's strategy was detailed in the Master
        Plan for National Reconstruction and Transformation (PMRTN).            Particular
        emphasis was placed on the strengthening of the Road Fund organization and its
        associated funding to ensure adequate maintenance levels. Also, emphasis was
        placed on the improvement of the main trade corridors particularly those on the
        "Natural Corridor" (the road corridor along the Pacific side of Central America
        that connects all countries), the Pan-American Highway, and the Central
        Highway (the road corridor connecting Tegucigalpa and the central region of the
        country to Puerto Castilla), all of these part of the broader regional transport
        improvement program known as Plan Puebla Panama. Also, GOH's strategy
        required that SOPTRAVI continue to be strengthened and its capacity built to
        manage the transport sector, with particular emphasis on environmental
        management.

        Consistent with this strategic framework, the rationale for the Project was to
        provide both immediate assistance in regard to Hurricane Mitch related damage
        and to support investment and institutional development in the road sector based
        on the successful experiences under the TRSP. The Project was consistent with
        the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) dated December 14, 1999 to support the
        GOH medium term reconstruction program while laying the groundwork for a
        stronger economy and a more equitable distribution of the benefits of growth.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

        The objectives of the Project were: (a) to restore roads damaged by Hurricane
        Mitch, which struck Honduras in October 1998; (b) to improve trade corridors;
        and (c) to establish a sustainable and accountable financial and institutional set-
        up for the road sub-sector.

        The performance indicators to measure the achievement of the project's
        objectives were: (i) verification that traffic volumes and vehicle operating costs
        on the upgraded roads meet those projected in the feasibility studies; (ii)
        implementation of the road maintenance pilot project through micro-enterprises;
        (iii) verification that the Road Fund finances the maintenance of at least 70% of
        the national network by the end of the project (main, secondary and feeder
        roads); (iv) rehabilitation / reconstruction of kilometers of main and rural roads
        and meters of bridges.



                                             2

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification


        There were no revisions to the project development objectives. Project key
        indicators were not revised with the following exception: As part of the first
        amendment to the credit agreement countersigned December 2005, GOH
        agreed to the following changes to the Implementation Letter: (A) (i) funds
        were to be allocated to the Road Fund sufficient to meet at least respectively of
        40% in 2001, 55% in 2002, 65% in 2003 and 70% in 2004 of the maintenance
        needs on the national network; (ii) maintenance on the main road network will
        be prioritized to ensure 100% of the requirements are met form 2006 onwards;
        (iii) further actions will be taken to assure 100% of national road network
        requirements are met by 2010. (B) (i) number of micro-enterprises providing
        routine maintenance eon the paved network will increase as follows 22 in 2001,
        44 in 2002 and 64 in 2003. (ii) from 2005, a sufficient number of micro-
        enterprises will be contracted and financed to meet 100% of the needs on the
        paved road network

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

        The population at large was primarily expected to benefit from the Project
        through the improvement of the road network with increased access, reduced
        vehicle operating costs and travel times. The population at large would also
        benefit from the increased economic activity along the various trade corridors.

        Specifically the construction industry and consulting firms and individuals, many
        of these expected to be local, would benefit from the civil works to be
        implemented under the project which in turn would generate employment
        opportunities. Many of these opportunities were intended for people from rural
        communities with low skills, through the proposed road maintenance micro-
        enterprises program implemented under the project.

        Finally SOPTRAVI and Road Fund staff members were to benefit from the
        project technical assistance component whose objective was to improve their
        institutional capacity.

1.5 Original Components


        The project comprised five major components. Component 1 (i) was funded by
        the Spanish government.          Component 1 (ii) was funded by the Nordic
        Development Fund. All other components were funded by the IDA credit and by
        GOH counterpart funding:

        Component 1: Road Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Improvement. This


                                               3

component aimed at financing: (i) rehabilitation of Tegucigalpa ­ Danli
Highway (US$19.2 million financed by Instituto de Cooperación Oficial de
España, 84 km.); this section is part of one of the main Central America
corridors that connects Tegucigalpa to the border of Nicaragua; (ii) rehabilitation
of Jícaro Galán ­ El Amatillo Highway (US$6.3 million financed by Nordic
Development Fund, 40.2 km.); this section is part of the "Natural Corridor", and
connects Honduras to El Salvador; (iii) reconstruction and rehabilitation of Santa
Rita-Yoro (US$ 18 million, 46.5 km.); this road is the main link connecting
Yoro to the rest of the country, and was severely damaged by Hurricane Mitch;
(iv) improvement of San Lorenzo ­ Olanchito (US$ 11.8 million, 45 km.); this
road connects the central part of the country to the Aguan River Valley and Port
Trujillo in the Caribbean Sea, and was also damaged by Hurricane Mitch; and
(v) improvement of Rio Dulce ­ El Porvenir (US$ 13.5 million, 46.5 km.), this
road is part of the southern section of the Central highway and connects the
central part of the country with the Aguan River Valley and the Port of Castilla
on the Caribbean Sea.

Component 2: Rural Roads and Bridges Program. This component financed
the reconstruction / rehabilitation of 550 linear meters of bridges, including the
rehabilitation of 100 kilometers of high priority rural roads. This financing was a
complement to the US$ 50 million rural road program financed by USAID for
the rehabilitation of approximately 2 000 kilometers of unpaved roads and 2 000
linear meters of bridges.

Component 3: Road Maintenance Pilot Project. This component aimed at
financing a pilot project of routine maintenance of main roads (between 900 and
1 100 kilometers), with the participation of local communities through the
formation of micro-enterprises with the assistance of consultants.

Component 4: Consultant Services, Technical Assistance, Training. This
component included the financing of: (i) consultants for the supervision of the
works carried out under Components 1, 2 and 3; (ii) technical assistance to
SOPTRAVI, including the Management Planning and Evaluation Unit (Unidad
de Planificación y Evaluación de Gestión - UPEG) and the Environmental Unit
(Unidad de Gestion Ambiental - UGA); (iii) technical assistance to strengthen
the Road Fund organization; (iv) technical assistance to complete the work
begun under Credit 2458-HO on the rationalization of the railways; (v) technical
assistance for the implementation and monitoring of the Road Maintenance Pilot
Project; (vi) implementation of a training program for SOPTRAVI and Road
Fund; and (vii) contracting of a consulting firm for the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU).

Component 5: Goods. This component aimed at financing a limited amount of
goods for SOPTRAVI (pavement evaluation equipment, vehicles, and
computers) and for the Road Fund (computers, vehicles).




                                     4

1.6 Revised Components

        Due to a shift in government priorities and a renewed focus on the Regional
        Integration Program PPP (Plan Puebla Panama), the rehabilitation and upgrading
        of the Northern Highway became a major sector priority for the GOH. Under
        these circumstances, sector authorities asked IDA for the reallocation of credit
        proceeds from the San Lorenzo-Olanchito road to Taulabe ­ La Barca road, a
        section of the Northern Highway (52 km).          IDA approved this revision in
        principle on April 23, 2003 justifying it by its coherence with the main
        objectives of the project ­ it forms part of the "corredor logistico" which is the
        key road in Honduras for Central America Trade Integration - and by its evident
        economic viability. In addition it should be recognized that the feasibility study
        on this and one other section (works for which were to be funded by IDB) of the
        "corredor logistico" were funded by IDA under the previous project. In regard
        to San Lorenzo to Olanchito section, it was determined that the works could not
        feasibly be completed within the timeframe of the Project. Support however was
        to continue to be provided for the preparation of a detailed plan required for the
        preservation of the fragile natural environment through which the road passes
        (bosque tropical muy seco) and for the sustainable protection of endangered
        endemic species in the area, notably the Honduran Emerald Hummingbird
        (colibri esmerelda).

1.7 Other significant changes

        During project implementation, there were two credit amendments as listed
        below:

        The first credit amendment, in December 2005, included (i) a reallocation of
        funds to increase the number of kilometers of roads to be maintained by micro-
        enterprises, from 900 to 1,670, due to the highly satisfactory performance of the
        road maintenance pilot program to that date, which had assured cost effective
        and timely maintenance services, and the social and economic positive impacts
        on rural communities; (ii) an extension of the loan closing date, originally
        scheduled for March 31, 2006, to June 30, 2007, in order to accommodate IDA
        financing for eleven additional months to support the routine maintenance micro-
        enterprise program, from March 2006 to January 2007 and the revised schedule
        for the completion of the trade corridor improvements to be funded by the
        Credit; and, (iii) an increase in the aggregate ceiling for civil works contracts
        procured through micro-enterprises, from US$4.6 million to US$8.0 million,
        with the purpose of bringing the category ceiling in line with the planned
        procurement of routine maintenance contract work for the additional year. The
        credit amendment also provided for the revision of the targets for road
        maintenance funding and for micro-enterprise development as mentioned earlier
        under Revised Project Development Objectives.

        A second amendment on the Credit Agreement was granted in January 2007, to



                                            5

        formalize the inclusion of Taulabe-La Barca road improvement as a new sub-
        component of the project and to limit the San Lorenzo-Olanchito road
        improvement only to studies. In April 2003 as previously mentioned, the Bank
        had approved the reallocation of funds; however, there was no amendment to the
        Credit Agreement made at that time.

        The improvement of about 53 kilometers of Taulabe-La Barca road included: (i)
        the rehabilitation of about 31 kilometers of carriageway; (ii) improvements in
        road geometry to improve visibility and safety; (iii) the addition of two lanes to
        over 14 km of high traffic areas; (iv) the addition of a third climbing lane to over
        8 km of high gradient sections; and (v) various other improvements in road
        design and road furniture which increase road safety for vehicles, pedestrians
        and cyclists.

        As a consequence of the second amendment, the San Lorenzo-Olanchito road
        component was reorganized to cover only the following elements: (i)
        engineering and economic analyses of construction alternatives; (ii) social and
        environmental assessments, including, but not limited to, the Honduran Emerald
        Habitat Study; and (iii) preparation of a plan covering actions to be taken to
        mitigate any negative natural habitat impact likely to be caused by subsequent
        improvement works.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

        The overall quality at entry and preparation is rated satisfactory. In general, the
        project was designed to achieve the benefits it was intended to deliver. The
        project development objectives were clear, realistic and relevant.            These
        reflected both the Borrower's development priorities at the time as described in
        the PMRTN, and also the Bank's strategic objectives as outlined in the CAS at
        that time. This was commendable, given that the project had to be prepared and
        appraised quickly in response to the need to provide resources to respond to
        Hurricane Mitch, in line with one of the project's development objectives.

        The project components were well targeted to accomplish the project
        development objectives. Their design was technically sound, based on
        comprehensive technical, economic and fiduciary assessments. Project design
        provided that bidding on some of the proposed works could not go ahead until
        the completion of either a satisfactory environmental impact analysis (the case of
        San Lorenzo to Olanchito) or an acceptable resettlement plan (El Negrito to
        Portillo de Chancaya and Rio Dulce to El Porvenir) was in place.

        Potential risks and measures to mitigate them were generally identified and
        incorporated in project design. The project's implementation arrangements were



                                            6

        well conceived as detailed in the PAD and in the project's operational manual.
        Specifically, the institutional set-up of hiring a consulting firm to help
        SOPTRAVI manage and administer the project in the role of a PCU was a
        forward looking proposal.

2.2 Implementation

        During project implementation, the following were the key factors that affected
        project performance:

        Delays in the fulfillment of conditions for loan effectiveness. The procurement
        process for contracting the consulting firms responsible for project management
        (outsourcing of PCU) and external auditing took longer than expected and
        delayed the start up of the project. Both firms needed to be contracted as a
        condition for loan effectiveness. In both processes, GOH was slow to approve
        the contracts, resulting in delays of approximately one year. Thus, although the
        IDA Credit was approved in November, 2000, the credit only became effective
        in November 2001.

        Lengthy implementation of the Action Plan for the preservation of the
        Emerald Hummingbird habitat. In order to initiate the bidding for the San
        Lorenzo-Olanchito road civil works, the implementation of an Action Plan for
        the preservation of the Emerald Hummingbird habitat was required.             The
        preparation of an acceptable action plan took much longer than originally
        anticipated because it comprised many related activities and also required the
        prior declaration of the zone as a protected one.        The plan aimed at the
        conservation of at least 3 000 out of the 4 000 hectares of tropical dry forest
        (bosque tropical muy seco) which were found on both sides of the San Lorenzo ­
        Olanchito road. All the activities in the plan have now been completed only.
        Decisions though have yet to be taken in regard to the various recommendations
        made for sustainable environmental management in the area ­such as instituting
        payments for environmental service to private owners whose land includes
        stands of the forest.

        Requirement for a remedial resettlement plan for the Taulabe to La Barca
        road section. As previously mentioned, the project was restructured to include
        the civil works for the improvement of this new section. A resettlement plan had
        been originally prepared in October 2004 prior to the commencement of works
        in February 2005. However a subsequent review of this plan carried out by the
        Bank safeguards team in September 2005 revealed deficiencies in relation to
        Bank guidelines ­ principally that the payment of compensation to affected
        households and businesses did not concur with the Bank requirement that
        livelihoods be fully restored. Subsequently, therefore, SOPTRAVI was required
        to prepare a remedial resettlement plan before the formal inclusion of the road as
        a new sub-component of the project as part of a proposed restructuring. The
        Bank provided substantial assistance to the client during supervision such that an



                                            7

       acceptable remedial resettlement plan was accepted by the Bank in December
       2006.

       Cost increases in regard to civil works execution. Most of the civil works
       carried out under the Project experienced cost increases in relation to estimate.
       These increases were attributable to different causes such as: (i) additional tasks
       identified during works execution not contemplated during road engineering
       designs; (ii) changes needed due to problems in engineering designs and to
       considerable lags between the dates of design preparation and of works
       execution; and (iii) price adjustments higher than originally budgeted. For the
       IDA financed roads, these cost increases could be accommodated due to the
       SDR/US dollar devaluation and there were no shortfalls in the completion of
       works. In the case of Tegucigalpa-Danli road, funded in full by the Spanish
       government, only about 55% of the road as originally specified could be
       completed with the available funding. The financing of road rehabilitation and
       improvement increased from US$68.8 million as projected to US$ 91.8 million
       as delivered.

       Frequent turnover of key staff. There were a number of changes in key staff
       during the project, particularly at the time of, and as a result of, the change in the
       Government administration at the beginning of 2006. Not only did the Minister,
       Vice ministers and Department heads change, but also the contracts of a number
       of key consultancy staff were not renewed. Such changes had a somewhat
       adverse effect lasting about 6 months into the year in terms of the effectiveness
       of project oversight, mitigated however by two factors mentioned below. Firstly,
       project implementation was not too seriously delayed due to the continuity
       provided in the PCU, services of which were provided under a consultancy
       services contract not affected by the change in government. Also it should be
       noted that through the efforts of the project, improved procedures and policies
       adopted in key department of SOPTRAVI made the organization more robust
       than before to staff turnover.




2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) According to the Project's design, progress
       implementation was measured against a list of monitoring outputs and outcomes
       indicators defined in the PAD for the following interventions: road corridor
       reconstruction and improvement, rural roads and bridges program, and road
       maintenance pilot program.

       The M&E indicator targets were specifically linked to the project, and focused
       on achievement of different project outputs over given periods. During
       implementation, the system was developed and used by the PCU as the project
       successfully achieved most of its objectives. The monitoring of achievement of



                                             8

        outputs was carried out and documented on a regular basis.          This was not
        however consistently done in the case of measurement of outcomes. Some "ad
        hoc" studies were carried out, for example in relation to the ex-post economic
        evaluation of road improvements.

        The Project was to provide through goods and consulting services the assistance
        required by SOPTRAVI to design and implement an overarching M&E system
        for the transport sector as a whole. However, the project advanced only the first
        phase of the sector M&E system, purchasing the equipment and designing the
        inputs, outputs and outcomes indicators. The second phase of this system will
        now be financed and implemented by SOPTRAVI with the support of an IADB
        loan.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

        Safeguards: Project preparation with respect to environmental assessment was
        carried out in accordance with Bank operational directives. The Project was
        assessed as Category B.         SOPTRAVI developed additional capacity for
        environmental management (UGA) during the implementation of the Project.
        All civil works carried out under the Project were regularly assessed for
        compliance with GOH and Project specific requirements.

        The project also supported the implementation of the Honduran Emerald
        Hummingbird action plan before the start up of works in the San Lorenzo ­
        Olanchito section. The Action Plan was required for the preservation of the
        Emerald Hummingbird habitat. The project assisted in the development of the
        following actions: (i) creation of a project executing unit to manage the plan; (ii)
        extension of the Pico Bonito National Park area; (iii) cadastre and demarcation,
        (iv) identification and registration of land owners to establish incentives for
        conservation, (v) protection of the areas, (vi) environmental education, (vii)
        development of ecotourism and (viii) environmental monitoring of protected
        species. Under this technical assistance, the following activities were executed
        satisfactorily: (i) rural cadastre and occupiers census; (ii) declaratory of the
        Poligono de Tiro de la Fuerza Aerea as a protected area and the demarcation of
        the area and, (iii) identification and registration of land owners of potential
        ecological services or private reserves to establish incentives aimed at the
        conservation of the Honduran Emerald Hummingbird. Further actions, including
        the biological monitoring of the protected area and an environmental
        management plan for the Honduran Emerald Hummingbird are still pending and
        SOPTRAVI is providing the resources to continue with these activities. Despite
        the somewhat lengthy period over which the activities were carried out, it is to
        SOPTRAVI's credit that the activities were completed such that consideration
        could now seriously be given to undertaking the works improvement under
        subsequent financing. It is to be noted that the completion of the action plan
        required a substantial amount of coordination with other GOH agencies, the
        responsibility for which largely fell to SOPTRAVI.



                                             9

         In regard to social assessment, the Project generally followed acceptable and
         appropriate guidelines, including a resettlement policy framework document for
         the roads sector. An issue however arose in regard to the resettlement plan
         prepared in October 2004 for the Taulabe to La Barca road section which was in
         due course to be formally integrated as a new sub-component of the Project. A
         Bank safeguards review in September 2005 found this plan to be deficient in
         regard to Bank guidelines in regard to the compensation of affected parties.
         Therefore a remedial resettlement plan had to be worked through. It is worth
         noting that the Government did then undertake remedial actions and the road
         resettlement activities were successfully completed and in full conformity with
         the Bank requirements. It is again to SOPTRAVI's credit that they fully and
         actively supported all the remedial measures that had to be taken to ensure
         compliance.

         Financial Management: Fiduciary aspects of the project were carried out by the
         PCU staff on behalf of SOPTRAVI. The activities were found to be satisfactory
         during project implementation and at completion. The formal external financial
         audit for the Project was performed on an annual basis, stating the adequacy of
         the accounting system and internal controls, the reliability of the Statements of
         Expenditure (SOEs) as a basis for credit disbursements, and compliance with the
         credit agreement.    The external audits were carried out in accordance with
         International Standards of Auditing each year and the reports submitted were
         found to be free of major qualifications and submitted in a timely manner.

         Procurement: SOPTRAVI staff with the assistance of the PCU carried out
         procurement activities in accordance with IDA procurement procedures. The
         preparation of tender documents and procurement proceeded smoothly without
         any major problems, and the record keeping and filing systems were good. The
         PCU reported procurement information to IDA on a quarterly basis. Bank
         procurement staff carried out periodic ex post reviews and was satisfied with the
         high level of performance of the Project.


2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

         The improved road trade corridors, financed under the project, are already in
         operation and being maintained by the Road Fund under its pluri-annual
         maintenance plan. Routine maintenance activities are being carried out by micro-
         enterprises assigned to the specific section. The utilization of the improved
         corridors is expected to be high, in fact higher then originally forecast due to
         strong growth in regional trade and traffic. This has been fostered, inter alia, by
         the signing of the CAFTA-DR trade agreements with the USA and by renewed
         interest in the promotion of regional economic integration through coordinated
         transport investments under the Plan Puebla Panama. The completion of the
         Tegucigalpa-Danli section is an important element of the plan as it affords



                                            10

        efficient access of Nicaraguan producers to ports in Honduras.

        In the context of the new 2007-2010 CAS for Honduras (approved November
        30, 2006) further support to the road sector is envisaged, primarily as a means of
        providing the infrastructure support needed for the GOH agenda to promote
        growth and competitiveness. It had originally been intended that this support be
        provided through a second (infrastructure oriented) phase to the Rural
        Competitiveness Project, scheduled for FY2010. A decision was subsequently
        taken to proceed with the preparation of a road repeater project ­ for delivery in
        FY2008 - with the same objectives and components as the recently completed
        project with the sole exception of the part dedicated to Hurricane Mitch
        restoration. IDA is now working with the Government to develop this follow-on
        operation in the expected amount of US$45 million equivalent. The new project
        will also help sustain the reforms and carry on as necessary technical assistance
        to SOPTRAVI and Road Fund with particular emphasis on:               (i) increasing
        private sector participation in road management; (ii) increasing resource flow to
        road maintenance; (iii) extending the micro-enterprise program; and (iv)
        increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of SOPTRAVI as a road management
        agency.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

        The Project development objectives, their design and implementation are fully
        consistent with the current development priorities of the GOH, emerging from
        the Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS). The project development objectives are
        directly relevant to three of the four pillars of the current CAS: competitiveness,
        sustainability, and macroeconomic stability (Country Assistance Strategy
        Progress Report).     Thus, the objectives are still relevant because they are
        consistent and in line with the government's broader objectives to promote
        growth, since the deficiencies of road infrastructure, especially in rural areas,
        constitute a limitation for economic growth and competitiveness.

        The project's objective link to the achievement of other key results expected in
        the GOH´s Multiyear Investment Strategy 2007-2010 supported by the present
        CAS which includes: (i) reaching an annual 5-6% growth rate of the economy
        while sustaining macroeconomic stability and generating employment, (ii)
        reaching the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), (iii) improving the
        quality of energy and transport services and (iv) promoting competitiveness,
        particularly in the rural areas.

        Specifically, the focus of one of the PDOs on restoring infrastructure damaged
        by Hurricane Mitch was highly relevant in view of the significant economic and
        social costs incurred by the country in its immediate aftermath.



                                            11

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

        The achievement of project development objectives is rated overall as
        satisfactory. Virtually all the intended project outcomes and outputs have been
        achieved.

        Restore roads damaged by Hurricane Mitch. Achievement of the objective is
        rated highly satisfactory. The project successfully achieved the implementation
        of the Rural Roads and Bridges Program formulated in response to Hurricane
        Mitch. This rating is justified because (i) basic transit was restored in key rural
        areas cut off as a result of the hurricane, (ii) communication was restored on
        secondary roads resuming agricultural production and continuity of various
        economic sectors; (the IDA credit support being complemented by other donor
        programs), and (iii) private companies and community members participated in
        the execution of small civil works, generating short-term employment. The
        expected project estimated outputs were exceeded: 102 km of high priority rural
        roads and 566 linear meters of bridges in Santa Barbara and El Paraiso
        departments.    An additional feature was that the design of the new bridge
        structures took advantage of the HONDUSAP systems set up under TRSP and
        were expected to be resilient in the face of future events of comparable
        magnitude.

        Improve road trade corridors. Achievement of this objective is rated
        satisfactory. The major civil works contracts for the rehabilitation of the five
        sections financed under this component were almost fully completed, and 236
        km out of the 262 km initially proposed were rehabilitated or reconstructed with
        substantive impact on the road network system and on user benefits. The
        variation in relation to the original targets was due to: (i) the cancellation of San
        Lorenzo ­ Olanchito section (45 km) the funds for which were reallocated to
        Taulabe - La Barca section (53 km); and, (ii) the high cost increases experienced
        in Tegucigalpa - Danli section, reducing the extent of the works completed under
        the Project from 84 km to 50 km.

        All the sections rehabilitated or improved form part of the most important
        logistical corridors for their economic importance and their potential
        contributions to the integration of the country with the neighbouring countries.
        They serve as important commercial trade links for the north, central and south
        zones of the country, and all were included under the PMRTN.

        The completed rehabilitation and reconstruction of all the road sections has
        extended the life of the pavement and average roughness (IRI) has been reduced
        from 5 - 7 on average, to under 2. This is reflected in major benefits in terms of
        reduction in vehicle operating costs and travel times - a combined average
        benefit to the road user of a 26% reduction on average compared to the situation
        before the project - and should facilitate the increase of exports and imports
        between Honduras and its major trading partners. All these road sections are


                                             12

currently in operation and are being maintained by the Road Fund.

The rehabilitation of Tegucigalpa - Danli section benefited the departments of
Francisco Morazan and El Paraiso, improving the connection between Honduras
and Nicaragua and ensured interregional transport and trade since this road is
used by Nicaragua to access Puerto Cortez, the main Honduran port on the
Caribbean Sea, for the export of coffee and other products. Works in this section
reduced vehicle operating costs by 24% and increased average daily traffic from
2,500 to 3,190 in 2007. GOH has initiated discussions with the Government of
Spain in regard to additional financing beyond the life of the Project to complete
the works on a 42 kilometer section which has yet to be improved.

The rehabilitation of Jicaro Galan - El Amatillo highway improved the
connection between Honduras and El Salvador, a critical element in the Plan
Puebla-Panama road regional integration program. This highway represents one
of the most highly trafficked sections of the southwestern region of the country
and is part of what is called "Natural Corridor" that connects all the Central
American countries. Works in this section contributed to reduced vehicle
operating costs by 7% and increased average daily traffic from 2,430 in 1999 to
3,263 in 2005.

The rehabilitation of Santa Rita-Yoro, specifically the section El Negrito -
Portillo de Chancaya which was severely damaged by Hurricane Mitch,
benefited El Negrito, Morazan and Yoro municipalities. Works in this section
contributed to reduced vehicle operating costs by 21% and increased average
daily traffic from 1,275 in 1999 to 1,957 in 2005. This section is the main link
connecting Yoro to San Pedro de Sula and El Progreso, important economic
centers; and its rehabilitation and reconstruction ensured local supplying and
trade.

With respect to Rio Dulce - El Porvenir improvement, works in this section
enhanced the connection of the central part of the country with the Aguan River
Valley and Puerto Castilla on the Caribbean Sea, benefiting the department of
Francisco Morazon, and reduced vehicle operating costs by 51%. In addition,
average daily traffic increased from 800 in 1999 to 1,202 in 2005.

Finally, improvements to the Taulabe - La Barca section of the CA-5 Highway
were supported by the project. This road forms part of the "corridor logistico"
and is crucial to the country's trade and competitiveness prospects.         The
improvements included adding a third lane on steep gradients and upgrading the
road to a four lane highway in one stretch. The improvements are expected to
improve safety for the road user in addition to other benefits.        The works
benefited Cortes and Comayagua departments; enhanced transport and trade with
El Salvador, Guatemala and Nicaragua, in compliance with Plan Puebla-Panama;
and helped reduce vehicle operating costs by 19% and increase average daily
traffic at a rate of 4.1% per annum to about 5,170 in 2007.



                                    13

In general, these road corridors are now in condition to better support the
increase of exports and imports between Honduras and its major trading partners
in the Central America Region. The benefits to trade also come from initiative
taken by the government in trade policy such as the signature of the CAFTA-DR
agreement and the certification of Puerto Cortes for container traffic to the USA.

Establish a sustainable and accountable financial and institutional set up for
the road sub-sector. Achievement of this objective is rated satisfactory. The
creation of the Road Fund in 1998 has been a very positive step toward the
establishment of a sustainable financial and accountable set up for the road sub-
sector in Honduras. The performance of the Road Fund agency during project
implementation has been satisfactory with few shortcomings as explained below.
In addition, the projected improvements in SOPTRAVI planning and
environmental management capacity have been achieved and the respective units
UPEG and UGA have been provided with the structures, tools and experiences
to improve their performance.

During project implementation, the Road Fund has provided a higher volume of
resources, in real terms, for road network maintenance than before the project,
although not as high as determined by the law of its creation or fully in
compliance with the targets established for the Project. It is important to mention
that all works (periodic and routine maintenance) continue to be contracted out
to the private sector and an important portion of its budget is going through the
successful micro-enterprise program (focused for now on paved road routine
maintenance) designed and initially financed (in part) by the Project.
Furthermore, the institutional capacity of the Road Fund has improved
substantially.  There are fewer delays experienced in contracting and cost
overruns are being better managed than before. The latter is shown by the fact
that operation and administrative overhead of the agency have been held within
the mandated ceiling of 2.5% of expenditures.

The Project supported the successful implementation of the Road Maintenance
Pilot Project. By the end of the Project, 70 micro-enterprises had been formed,
of which 36 (compared to the original target of 22) had been financed by IDA
until January 2007 and the others by the Road Fund. That is to say that the pilot
was not only successfully extended early in the life of the project but that is has
since been mainstreamed as a specific maintenance program of the Road Fund.
The micro-enterprises are formed by inhabitants from the same community or
neighboring villages located near the road section to be maintained. The program
now directly benefits a population of 5,394. It is worth noting that the project
also provided training activities for the micro-entrepreneurs of the community
associations, which increased their capacity in terms of organizational aspects
such as teamwork, administration, programming, costs, accounting, report
writing, legal and tax affairs, and administration of their contracts. Also, this
program provides economic benefits since the micro-entrepreneurs have



                                   14

         improved their quality of life. 45% of them built their houses, while the rest
         made some house improvements (water and electric services, floor and ceiling
         improvements, domestic appliances).

         With the regards to the shortcomings, the target for the percentage of road
         maintenance needs met by the end of the project was not met. Historically,
         transfers were less than what was requested, resulting in shortage of funds in
         attending to the national network. The Road Fund's policy was to prioritize
         paved road maintenance with most of any shortfall coming in regard to the
         unpaved network. By 2007 95% of paved road maintenance was funded whereas
         only 40% of unpaved was covered. The average coverage achieved was about
         65% compared to a target of 70%. In terms of an agreement reached with
         SEFIN and the sector donors including the Bank, it is planned that at the end of
         2010, 85% of the national network will be covered

         The Project was able to contribute successfully to the continued development of
         SOPTRAVI as an effective and efficient road management agency, albeit in a
         more modest way than it did for the establishment of the Road Fund. Within
         UPEG, the contribution was towards the establishment of a comprehensive
         management information system and on the introduction of and training on road
         management tools such as the Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM).
         Within UGA, substantial improvements were made in building in-house capacity
         in environmental management, developing monitoring tools and carrying out
         studies in such areas as road materials management. The project was able to
         help develop policies and procedures to strengthen the management framework
         of key units in SOPTRAVI which actions helped to offset the potential negative
         impact of turnover in key staff.




3.3 Efficiency

         At appraisal, an economic analysis was carried out for each road section under
         the improved trade corridors component, using the HDM model. The results of
         the HDM analyses and the corresponding Net Present Values (NPV) for the
         respective road sections were calculated. The results of the economic evaluation
         of the project, aggregating the five road sections, resulted at appraisal in an
         estimated NPV for Road Component of US$ 90.8 million and the corresponding
         average Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) of 27.3%. The individual road
         sections had an estimated IERR ranging from 23% to 34%.

         At completion, ex-post economic evaluations were carried out for the five road
         sections (noting that in this case Taulabe ­ La Barca section replaces San
         Lorenzo ­ Olanchito section). The analyses were carried out by UPEG staff and
         were performed using the HDM model, version 4 These took into account the
         revised implementation schedules of the various works as well as the final



                                           15

         capital cost of the works converted into US dollars. A discount rate of 12% was
         employed. To ensure comparability with the ex-ante estimates, the only benefits
         quantified for inclusion in the analysis are estimated vehicle operating cost and
         travel time savings accruing from the improvements.

         Ex-post analyses at completion resulted in a total NPV of US$ 168.3 million,
         with an average ERR of 33.9%. The economic return of the road component
         remains therefore at a highly satisfactory level. The details of the analyses for
         each road section are included in Annex 5.

         With respect to the Rural Roads and Bridges Program, the rural roads were
         chosen so as to ensure an overall positive NPV for the program at a 10%
         discount rate. No ex-post economic analyses for these rural roads was carried
         out.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

         Rating:   Satisfactory


         The overall outcome rating is based on the combined assessment of relevance,
         efficiency, and achievement of the project development objectives. As explained
         in the previous sections, the relevance of the project is high and its efficiency is
         substantial. The achievement of the project development objective is assessed
         overall as satisfactory given in particular: the successful implementation of the
         Rural Roads and Bridges Program formulated due to the Hurricane Mitch, the
         increase in efficiency due to the rehabilitating and maintaining of the road
         network and key logistical corridors, the progress made in strengthening
         SOPTRAVI and Road Fund and the highly successful start up of routine road
         maintenance through micro-enterprises.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

         The Road Maintenance Pilot Project under the Project envisaged the creation of
         22    micro-enterprises   for  routine   road   maintenance.       However,     the
         implementation experience has been so positive that an additional 48 micro-
         enterprises have been created that now provide routine maintenance for about
         2,700 kms, which is 91% of the paved road network. It is important to underline
         that this pilot project has had an important poverty reduction impact, since it
         directly benefited 899 rural people working at micro-enterprises and indirectly,
         5,394 people in associated households. The project provided, during both
         establishment and operational phases, training in organization skills, team work,
         accounting and enterprise administration, and guidelines and operational
         manuals for performing their technical work. These micro-entrepreneurs are
         constantly supervised not only to achieve their monthly plans but also to
         empower them to work with social aspects of their communities. In this sense,


                                            16

        they participate in activities such as cleaning of schools, sports centers, police
        stations and churches; transport of patients and corpses; and repair of schools.

        As a result of the training, most of the micro-enterprises have diversified their
        activities, for example: 44% of the micro-enterprises sell the trash picked up
        from roads to recycling plants; 42% grow maize, vegetables or coffee cultures;
        14% raise fish, and 8% sell retail items. Finally, another impact of this pilot
        project on the micro-entrepreneurs is the improvement of house, food, dress and
        education of their children. It is worth noting that 45% of micro-entrepreneurs
        were able to build their houses.

(a) Institutional Change/Strengthening


        The project made important contributions to the institutional development of the
        transport sector in Honduras. In particular, the project: (i) provided technical
        assistance to strengthen capacity for planning, administration and management
        through the design and implementation of multiyear road investment plans, (ii)
        implemented the road maintenance system by introducing periodic and routine
        maintenance through private contractors ­ all works now are contracted out to
        the private sector and a significant portion of the current budget is assigned to
        micro-enterprises (iii) improved pavement management through the introduction
        of a pavement management system and a certification, analysis and control
        system for asphalt and crushing plants; (iv) promoted private sector participation
        through the development of a pilot maintenance program with different
        contracting options such us routine micro-enterprises and outsourcing
        supervision; (v) provided technical assistance for the restructuring of the DGC of
        SOPTRAVI and (vi) strengthened institutional capacity for social and
        environmental management ­ including the first examples developed in-house of
        resettlement programs associated with three of the road corridor improvement
        projects.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

        The necessity of carrying out a remedial resettlement program for the Taulabe to
        La Barca road section ­ as the original plan was deemed not in compliance with
        Bank guidelines on review in September 2005 ­ afforded an opportunity to
        review and subsequently improve the quality of assistance provided to
        households and businesses which had to be relocated out of the right of way once
        construction began. The beneficiaries numbered 175 families, 23 car washers
        and 27 fruit vendors.

        All the displaced families were initially located within the limits of the right of
        way, property of the GOH. These families improved their legal situation since
        their resettlement included the provision of property deeds of the land where
        they were finally relocated. In addition, the resettlement plan included the
        provision of technical assistance and materials for the construction of houses, as


                                            17

       well as materials for the improvement of ceilings, floors and latrines.

       For car washers, the resettlement plan included the construction of road side
       areas ("bahias") and the foundation of a mixed cooperative called Jardines de
       Taulabé. For fruit vendors, a market was built, which included energy and water
       services. Also, the Caja Rural de Ahorros y Crédito La Cascada was founded.
       Currently, the road side areas and the market are functioning adequately,
       according to the agreements reached during the implementation of the
       resettlement plan.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

       Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

       Rating:   Moderate

       The level of risk to development outcome is rated moderate. Technical
       sustainability of physical investments in the road sub-sector made under the
       project is likely, due to the Road Fund's improved capacity to plan, program and
       maintain the rehabilitated roads in a sustainable manner through the micro-
       enterprises program and the outsourcing of periodic maintenance. It is important
       to mention that at Project closing date, the following roads are already being
       maintained by micro-enterprises: Tegucigalpa-Danlí (50 km), Jícaro Galán-El
       Amatillo, Santa Rita-Yoro (section El Negrito-Portillo De Chancaya), Río
       Dulce-El Porvenir,) and Taulabé-La Barca

       Although paved road network maintenance is 95% covered and funding is
       available for all micro-enterprises (now 70) on recurrent basis, the 2007 budget
       provides for only about 65% of the targeted amount, with a shortfall mostly on
       the unpaved road network.        For this reason, there is a moderate risk to
       development outcome arising from any future shortfalls in the provision of
       maintenance funding. Mitigation of this risk has been provided and
       implemented, prior to closing date, through a formal agreement with the GOH
       that the transfer of resources to the Road Fund will be increased by 10%
       annually starting in fiscal year 2007 until 2010. It has been estimated that with
       this increase, the Road Fund will receive sufficient revenues to cover the costs of
       its administration and operation as well as 85% of the road maintenance needs
       on the network. This agreement will be monitored on a regular basis through the
       "Cooperation Round Table" of representatives from the IDA, the Millennium
       Challenge Account (MCA), the IADB, the Central American Bank for Economic
       Integration (CABEI) and the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA).
       It is also underpinned by conditionally in regard to the continuance of sector
       funding from MCA.




                                           18

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry



        Rating:   Highly Satisfactory

        Overall, the Bank's performance during preparation was highly satisfactory,
        specifically in the speedy and effective way in which it responded to GOH
        requests for assistance in designing the response to Hurricane Mitch. The Bank
        provided exemplary guidance to GOH in designing the strategies to make
        operational the Road Fund and to give birth to the micro-enterprises program.

        In addition, it is to be said that the Bank generally engaged in fruitful dialogue
        with the Borrower and together they prepared this IDA-financed operation (CR-
        34320) drawn from lessons learned in the previous project (TSRP) and the
        supplemental credit. Project design was based on economic and sector work and
        appropriately responded to GOH´s strategy for the road sub-sector contained in
        the PMRTN. There was a strong IDA effort to coordinate its interventions in
        key logistical road corridors of the transport sub-sector with ongoing efforts
        from other international financial organizations, particularly the Government of
        Spain and the Nordic Development Fund.

        This was a project to encourage the continuous evolution of the transport sector
        of Honduras. IDA mission staff had diversified and appropriate skills to perform
        tasks such as: (a) assessing the reconstruction, rehabilitation and improvement of
        roads and bridges included in the Hurricane Mitch National Plan, (b) defining
        the strategy for continuing IDA´s support to improving road maintenance
        practice at the Road Fund, (c) assessing the needs for implementing a
        maintenance     pilot   subprojects    through   micro-enterprises   to  stimulate
        employment in rural areas; (d) selecting the key roads or strategic corridors and,
        most importantly; and, (e) designing institutional arrangements that the project
        required for successful implementation, including the innovative use of private
        sector management consultants in the PIU.


(b) Quality of Supervision

         Rating:  Highly Satisfactory

        The Bank's performance was crucial for the achievement of most project
        objectives and is rated highly satisfactory. Particularly noteworthy were the
        contributions of the Bank towards: (i) the scaling up of the micro-enterprise
        program when it was clear that the original objectives were set at too modest a



                                             19

          level; (ii) the effective way in which the delays in completing a satisfactory
          environmental assessment for the San Lorenzo ­ Olanchito road were handled
          resulting both in value added to the environmental review process on that road
          and to the replacement of works on this section in the project by Taulabe ­ La
          Barca; and (iii) the way in which the requirement for a remedial resettlement
          action plan for Taulabe ­ La Barca was handled, devoting substantial time and
          expertise over a period to 18 months to resolving a major implementation issue.

          The Bank closely supervised project implementation and focused in particular on
          compliance with the Project development objectives, and progress was closely
          monitored and reported on in depth in Aide Memoires prepared during each
          supervision mission. All relevant aspects of project implementation were
          carefully analyzed and a permanent dialogue between IDA and SEFIN was
          established, recorded and monitored.

          The Bank took timely corrective actions, such as: reallocating credit funds due to
          cost overruns, readjusting targets to accommodate changing conditions,
          extending the credit closing date to compensate for implementation delays due to
          external actors, providing technical assistance for compliance with safeguard
          policies, especially for the involuntary road resettlement plans, and finally,
          providing training in procurement and financial management.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

           Rating:    Highly Satisfactory

          The overall rating for IDA performance is highly satisfactory. This rating is
          supported by the project results and the successful achievement of all its
          objectives. There were several particularly notable aspects of the task team
          performance such as the support given to the micro-enterprise program as well as
          the successes obtained in the way in which environmental and social safeguard
          issue arising under implementation were handled.

5.2 Borrower Performance

        NOTE: When the government and implementing agency are indistinguishable, provide rating and
        justification only for Overall Borrower Performance.

          Click here if the Government and the Implementation Agency is the same or
          indistinguishable

(a) Government Performance

          Rating:     Satisfactory




                                                   20

        GOH performance is rated satisfactory.        The government showed strong
        ownership and a high level of commitment during project preparation, especially
        in accepting improvements in capacity of the Road Fund and SOPTRAVI as far
        as the technical assistance component was concerned, and maintained this
        commitment throughout project implementation. Government arranged to carry
        out the background analyses necessary for project preparation and through
        adequate legislation and introduction of other measures the government
        facilitated other sub-sector reforms for improving the financial outlook of the
        Road Fund such as: (i) restructuring of the DGC, (ii) contracting of a consulting
        firm as the PCU accepting the weakness showed by the procurement assessment
        capacity within SOPTRAVI; (iii) the outsourcing of road periodic and routine
        maintenance for the road network to the private sector; (iv) permitting that funds
        were available in a timely manner consistent with a maintenance program
        established by the Road Fund, and (v) acceptance of new procedures and
        guidelines for road environmental and social assessments.

        Despite the very tight fiscal environment faced by the GOH, counterpart funds
        allocated to the project were made available as required and, with some
        exceptions, arrived in a timely fashion. An adequate transfer of funds to the
        Road Fund in accordance with the Law was however not maintained and the
        GOH failed to provide the resources necessary to meet the targets agreed under
        the Project. However subsequent agreement has been reached with the Bank and
        the donor community on actions required to progressively increase transfers to
        the Road Fund to the levels required.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

         Rating:  Highly Satisfactory

        Implementing Agency : Implementing Agencies (SOPTRAVI, Road Fund and the
        PCU)

        The overall performance of SOPTRAVI and the Road Fund is rated as highly
        satisfactory.   In spite of the turnover of staff, all agencies performed
        commendably well and met all their obligations on a consistent basis. The
        agencies worked well with the Bank in terms of resolving problems that arose
        during implementation and took leadership in particular regard to environmental
        management and the emerald hummingbird action plan. The performance of the
        private firm recruited to act as PCU was outstanding and helped ensure the
        proper documentation on all aspects of the project.




                                           21

          The PCU maintained a very high standard throughout, due in great part to the
          continuity, competence and strong motivation of its staff. The firm's efforts to
          ensure compliance with the project's objectives and smooth implementation of
          the project components were very effective as most of the project outputs were
          satisfactorily achieved in a timely fashion.

          Fiduciary aspects of the project were well managed. No major procurement
          problems arose and bidding was undertaken for the most part in a timely
          fashion. Financial management was carried out in a largely satisfactory way.
          Monitoring and evaluation arrangements were generally satisfactory.        The
          efforts of the implementing agencies greatly assisted the IDA missions in terms
          of the preparation of Aide Memoires and the effective follow up on all
          outstanding actions.




(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

          Rating:    Satisfactory

          The overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.




                                              22

6. Lessons Learned

        An externally managed PCU can help increase efficiency in project
        implementation. A management consultant firm was hired to perform the work
        of the PCU. This mechanism was created as an alternative to establishing a large
        management unit made up entirely of SOPTRAVI's own staff and also helped to
        maintain the momentum on project implementation during the hiatus created by
        the change in administration at the beginning of 2006. The approach brought in
        new skills that might otherwise not have been available and also helped foster an
        environment consistent with achieving implementation results and providing
        regular reporting on progress.      It is important to note however that core
        implementation responsibilities remained with SOPTRAVI (in the specific
        departments and units concerned) for the management of contracts in both civil
        works and technical assistance. It was thus not necessary to set up a project
        implementation unit (PIU) within SOPTRAVI.

        Road maintenance by micro-enterprises can be an efficient management
        strategy and can also contribute to social development and poverty
        reduction. The Road Maintenance Pilot Project has proved to be a highly
        successful initiative at two levels. Firstly, it has proved to be an efficient means
        of delivering road maintenance services in sections of the public network.
        Secondly it has become a very effective instrument to generate productive short-
        term employment for skilled and unskilled workers from the communities near
        the road zone to be maintained. This type of program is very cost-effective and
        has good social and economic impacts on the beneficiary zones, such as
        development of organizational skills, diversification of productive activities and
        improvement of quality of life.

        In order for road maintenance funding objectives to be met, there needs to
        be in place a sound policy and institutional framework supported flexibly by
        actions to be taken during implementation. While substantial progress was
        made under the Project towards greater, more reliable maintenance funding, the
        original objectives set could not be met. Ensuring upfront the basic legislative
        requirements for the provision of dedicated funding in the required amounts may
        not be sufficient. The Project experience reflects the value of having clear
        understanding on policy, in particular regard to prioritization within a
        constrained resource framework. Such details would optimally be worked out
        ahead of time for a follow on project. Nonetheless, the Project also demonstrates
        the value of reconfirming ­ and modifying as necessary ­ road maintenance
        targets as implementation proceeds and also making sure there is consistent and
        coherent agreement with all parties, especially SEFIN and the donor community,
        in support of their achievement.

        Management of environmental and social safeguards needs to be integrated
        into project implementation and both Borrower and the Bank need to be
        flexible in the allocation of time and resources to this matter. The Project



                                            23

        was well prepared in regard to social and environmental aspects. Nonetheless
        under implementation the Project experienced delays and ultimately the need to
        undertake significant restructuring due to: the incapability to implement one
        section of works (San Lorenzo to Olanchito) because of complexity of the
        environmental issues; the need to undertake remedial actions in regard to the
        resettlement plan for the road section that was adopted to take the place of this
        road (Taulabe to La Barca). The Borrower and the Bank were however able to
        overcome the serious challenges that the circumstances created and the end
        result for the outcome of the project was very positive. As shown in this case,
        the effective resolution of safeguard problems that emerge under implementation
        can be a powerful tool for building capacity for environmental and social
        management.




7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

        The Borrower's comments are generally consistent with this ICR's assessment of
        the Project with regard to outcomes related to achievements. See Annex 7 for
        the Borrower's full comments (in Spanish), the main points of which are
        highlighted below:

        (i) The achievement of project development objectives was highly satisfactory.
        The realization of the goals for coverage of road maintenance needs was not yet
        reached however.
        (ii)   The implementation of project components was satisfactory.         Roads
        improved under the project are already under regular maintenance.
        (iii) The micro-enterprise program has created substantial economic and social
        benefits in addition to the direct impact on road maintenance provision.
        (iv) Environmental and social management requirements of the project were
        successfully accomplished. The specific challenges of the emerald hummingbird
        habitat and the Taulabe to La Barca resettlement plan were addressed
        appropriately.
        (v)   The Bank contribution was highly satisfactory both at entry and during
        supervision
        (vi) On the government side, the project implementation arrangements were
        very successful and the practice of contracting out coordination and other
        services should be encouraged.
        (vii)  The main factors that affected implementation included ­ delays in
        effectiveness, longer then expected implementation of the emerald hummingbird
        action plan; and cost increases suffered in the case of most civil works.




                                            24

(b) Co-financiers

         Not applicable.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders

         Not applicable




                                      25

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)      Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

(Total rows and percentage column will be calculated by the system)


         Components              Appraisal Estimate Actual /Latest Estimate  Percentage of
                                  (US$ million)         (US$ million)         Appraisal

1. Road Reconstruction,
Rehabilitation and                     68.8                  91.8                133
Improvement

  Rehabilitation of Tegucigalpa
  Danli Highway                        19.2                  20.4                106

  Rehabilitation of Jicaro Galan
  ­ El Amatillo Highway                 6.3                  10.1                160

  Reconstruction and
  Rehabilitation of Santa Rita ­       18.0                  18.5                103
  Yoro

  Improvement of San Lorenzo
  ­ Olanchito                          11.8                  0.0

  Improvement of Rio Dulce ­
  El Porvenir                          13.5                  14.5                108

  Improvement of Taulabe ­ La
  Barca                                                      28.3

2. Rural Roads and Bridges
Program                                 8.5                  4.9                  57

3. Road Maintenance Pilot
Project                                 4.0                  7.8                 195

4. Consultant Services,
Technical assistance and               11.5                  13.3                115
Training

5. Goods                                1.2                  0.3                  21

6. Audit Fees                           0.1                  0.2                 200

            Total Baseline Cost        94.1                 118.2                126

Physical Contingencies
                                       12.7                  0.0
Price Contingencies

            Total Project Costs       106.8                 118.2                111

Project Preparation Facility
(PPF)                                   0.0                  0.0

Front-end fee (IBRD only)               0.0                  0.0

    Total Financing Required          106.8                 118.2                111




                                                26

(b)    Co-financing

(The appraisal estimate will be pre-populated from the Financing data in SAP/AUS;
Percentage of Appraisal column will be calculated by the system)


                                        Appraisal        Actual/Latest
 Source of Funds        Type of                                           Percentage of
                      Financing         Estimate          Estimate
                                       (US$ million)     (US$ million)     Appraisal

Government                                  -                15.1
IBRD/IDA                                    -                73.2
Spain              Parallel financing       -                19.9              -
Nordic             Parallel financing       -                11.1              -
Development Fund




                                           27

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


The project achieved most of its outputs and the overall assessment of the project outputs
is rated satisfactory. The Bank's supportive attitude together with GOH and PCU
commitment toward the project was a key element for the accomplishment of the targets
appraised under each component.

Component 1: Road Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Improvement (US$ 68.8
million programmed; US$ 91.8 million disbursed). This component is rated as
satisfactory. The component was intended to finance the reconstruction, rehabilitation
and improvement of five road sections totaling 262 km. Approximately, US$ 68.8 million
were assigned for this component, whose physical targets were almost fully achieved as
follows: (i) Tegucigalpa - Danli Highway works were executed between November 2004
and October 2007, with a cost of US$ 20.4 million; (ii) Jicaro Galan ­ El Amatillo
Highway works began in November 2004 and ended in June 2004, reaching a cost of
US$ 10.1 million; (iii) Santa Rita ­ Yoro section works began in February 2002 and
ended in March 2005, with a cost of US$ 18.5 million; (iv) Rio Dulce ­ El Porvenir
works started in February 2002 and ended in April 2004, reaching a cost of US$ 14.5
million; and, (v) Taulabe ­ La Barca works were executed between February 2005 and
May 2007, with a cost of US$ 28.3 million. At project completion, 236 km of primary
trunk roads were reconstructed, rehabilitated or improved, with a total cost of US$ 91.8
million. The incremental cost of US$ 23 million was due to a variety of factors including:
design changes required to improve the chances for these roads to withstand natural
disasters, improvements of the road pavement, hydraulic and drainage works, and
construction of additional lanes. High cost increases were experienced specially in the
Tegucigalpa Danli highway; as a consequence, the extent of the works was reduced from
92 km to 50 km. However, since this section is part of the main Central America
corridors, SOPTRAVI has requested funds from the Spanish government supported by
Banco Centroamericano de Integración Económica in order to complete its
rehabilitation. All these rehabilitated road sections are currently operative and maintained
by the Road Fund.

Component 2: Rural Roads and Bridges Program (US$ 8.5 million programmed; US$
4.9 million disbursed). This component sought to provide reconstruction and
rehabilitation of about 550 linear meters of bridges involving the rehabilitation of 100 km
of high priority rural roads, and is rated highly satisfactory as explained bellow.

Works were divided in five contracts for five different groups; however, Group 3 was
cancelled because it had already been covered by the Road Fund. The other four contracts
covered 102 km of rural roads and 566 linear meters of bridges, exceeding the original
targets. Group 1 included the rehabilitation of El Chile - Palma Real section and the
construction of Rio Blanco bridge in Santa Barbara Department; Group 2 comprised the
rehabilitation of San Pedro de Zacapa-Agua Caliente­Azacualpa section and the
construction of Jaitique and Agua Caliente bridges in Santa Barbara Department. Group 4



                                              28

included the rehabilitation of Colinas-San Luis-Desvío a Palmira sections in Santa
Barbara Department. Finally, Group 5 included the construction of the Río Choluteca
(Paso Tamarindo), Agua Fría and Guasure bridges in El Paraíso Department.

In August, 2002, during Project execution, low strength concrete was found in the three
bridges in Group 5. A Commission to assess this situation was appointed by SOPTRAVI.
During the analysis, it was found that the original designs were not adequate. To resolve
this issue, it was agreed to reinforce the affected elements of those bridges, and to
undertake a full live load test at the contractor's expense. Also, to ensure that there were
no other design deficiencies in other bridges, a special task team verified the design of the
12 bridges financed under the credit (6 bridges in Santa Rita ­ Yoro section under
Component 1 and 6 bridges under Component 2). The results of the studies were obtained
in a very short term, and were included in the design of the bridges under construction.
The civil works were successfully completed in May 2004.

Component 3: Road Maintenance Pilot Project (US$ 4.0 million programmed; US$ 7.8
million disbursed). This component is rated highly satisfactory. The component aimed at
financing a pilot project on road maintenance with the participation of local communities
through the formation of micro-enterprises. The achievement of the component exceeded
its expected outputs. During project implementation a total of 70 micro-enterprises were
created and are currently working. It is important to mention that with IDA financing,
the Road Fund designed and started the operation of the first 36 (compared to 22
projected at project start up) micro-enterprises and the operation and maintenance was
also financed until project completion. As a result of this successful pilot project, the road
network maintenance works not only improved the road network itself, but also the living
conditions of local communities through employment generation and the creation of a
micro-entrepreneur culture. The creation of these new enterprises has generated an
estimated 899 new job opportunities for skilled and unskilled people, and benefited
directly a population of 5,394 (households). Activities carried out by the micro-
enterprises comprised: clearing the roadway, clearing road drains, channeling waters,
cleaning and painting of bridges, controlling vegetation and clearing gutters and
landslides.

Component 4. Consultant Services, Technical Assistance, Training (US$ 11.5 million
estimated; US$ 13.3 million disbursed). This component is rated satisfactory. It mainly
focused on the provision of technical assistance and capacity building activities.

In terms of technical assistance and support provided to SOPTRAVI, including the
Environmental Unit (UGA) and the Management Planning and Evaluation Unit (UPEG),
the activities financed by this component comprised: (i) consultancy services for the
Project Coordination Unit; (ii) consultancy services for the supervision of the works
(Components 1 and 2), (iii) technical assistance for the UGA to include environmental
issues in the project cycle and to incorporate safeguard policies applicable to each
project; (iv) consultancy services for the design and implementation of the Project
Monitoring System and Management Information of the Investments (Sistema de
Información Gerencial de las Inversiones ­ SIGI) for the UPEG; (v) training in HDM-IV



                                             29

for the UPEG; (vi) technical assistance for the UPEG for the maintenance of the bridge
system HONDUSAP; and (vii) consultancy services for the FNH (Ferrocarril Nacional
de Honduras) for an estimate of railway and immovable assets. All these activities were
satisfactorily completed. During project implementation, agreement was reached to carry
out: (i) studies for the preparation of the proposed Rural Infrastructure Project; and (ii)
two additional studies in the area of urban transport ­ a national census of passenger
service vehicles and a study of options for renewing the bus fleet in Tegucigalpa.

With respect to technical assistance provided to the Road Fund, this component financed
consultancy services for: (i) the supervision of routine maintenance provided by the 36
micro-enterprises financed by IDA; (ii) the design of a Certification System for Asphalt
and Crushing Plants; (iii) the development of an Attention of Emergencies in the Road
Network Manual; and, (iv) the implementation of a Weight and Dimension Control
System in Highways.

Training and capacity building activities included seminars and training courses for
SOPTRAVI and Road Fund staff. As part of this training program, a total of 35 events
were conducted to the benefit of SOPTRAVI staff. 25 of these events were local and 10
were international training events, focusing largely on the following: project
management, private participation in infrastructure investments, contract management,
project design and implementation. For the Road Fund staff, consultants and contractors,
a total of 14 events were conducted, and were focused mainly on updating of road
techniques.




                                             30

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis



The methodology used for assessing the ex-post economic returns of the project consisted
of evaluating the five road sections under the Road Component. These results were
compared to those obtained at appraisal. The evaluations were carried out using the HDM
IV model.

The analyses related to the appraisal stage, i.e., the conditions prevailing at the time when
the component was submitted for Bank's approval, were taken to consider essentially the
rehabilitation standards proposed, their unit costs, the traffic volumes and pavement
condition. For the ex-post analysis, the values of these parameters were adjusted to
correspond to the actual timing when these works effectively took place. All costs were
converted into constant dollars, and a uniform discount rate of 12% was considered. By
and large, the scenario without the project involved routinely maintaining the existing
pavement with an IRI value of 5 ­ 7. The scenario with the project involved executing the
reconstruction, rehabilitation and/or improvement immediately, carrying out the routine
maintenance policy, with an IRI value of 2.00 to 2.20. Economic benefits consisted
essentially of vehicle operating cost savings, including passenger time benefits.

Overall, the consolidated Net Present Value and average Internal Economic Rate of
Return for the five road sections was US$ 168.3 million and 33.9% respectively,
compared to appraisal values of US$ 90.8 million and 27.3% respectively. These results
confirm that the project yielded significant returns that surpassed those anticipated at
appraisal.

The high IERR generally obtained for the subprojects suggest that these results were
resilient to any traffic reductions which may occur during the analysis period. Sensitivity
analysis was carried out in regard to the results obtained for the Tegucigalpa to Danli and
Taulabe to La Barca results. A 20% increase in cost combined with a 20% reduction in
benefits would reduce the NPV respectively to US$6.2 million and US$24.5 million. The
equivalent IERR would be 15.3% and 24.3%.




                                             31

The Table below summarizes, section by section, the results of the economic evaluation.

                                  Economic Costs and Benefits
                  Road Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Improvement


                           Length           Costs            NPV (1)         IERR (2)

      Section               (Km.)       (000 US$/Km.)       (000 US$)          (%)
                       SAR
                     Estimate   Actual  SAR
                                       Estimate  Actual  SAR
                                                        Estimate  Actual  SAR
                                                                         Estimate  Actual

 Tegucigalpa -
 Danli                  84.0     50.0    229      355    19.5       15.3   23.2     20.3

 Jicaro Galan ­ El
 Amatillo               40.2     40.2    144      304    12.1       21.4   33.7     29.1

 Santa Rita ­ Yoro      46.5     46.6    387      385    27.5       32.4   26.9     31.1

 San Lorenzo ­
 Olanchito              45.0             252             11.2              23.6
 (cancelled)
 Rio Dulce ­ El
 Porvenir               46.5      47     277      307    20.5       58.7   29.3     52.2

 Taulabe - La
 Barca                  53.0     53.0    433      459    23.3       40.5   44.4     33.7

(1) Net Present Value
Internal Economic Rate of Return




                                               32

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                           Title             Unit Responsibility/
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Castillo, Aland
                             Senior Social Development
Correa, Elena                Specialist                       SDV

Corvalan, Cecilia Claudia    Sr Transport. Econ.             LCSTR
Cubillas, Emma Meri          Consultant                      LCSTR
Escobar, German              Consultant                      LCSTR
Fam, Adel                    Consultant                      LCSTR
Fernandez Ordonez, Hernan    Consultant                      LCSTR
Franz, Juergen Otto A.
Graham, Douglas J.           Sr Environmental Spec.          EASVS
James, Emmanuel A.           Lead Transport Specialist       LCSTR
                             Lead Private Sector Development
Kopicki, Ronald J.           Spec.                           AFTPS

Lage, Glaura T.              Senior Program Assistant        LCSDE
Ledec, George Campos         Lead Ecologist                  LCSEN
Menendez, Aurelio            Lead Transport Specialist       EASTE
Oleson, Kirsten L.           Consultant                      LCSSD
Quintero, Juan D.            Sr Environmental Engr.          EASRE
Rapp, Kennan W.              E T Consultant                  LCSSA
Rehman, Manzoor              Consultant                      LCSTR
Rodriguez, Ana               Consultant                      LCSTR
Ruan, Guillermo
Sheldon, Stephanie Ann
Vergara, Walter              Lead Chemical Engineer          LCSEN
Zarzar Casis, Alonso         Sr Social Scientist             LCSSO
Zelaya, Mario Antonio        Consultant                      MNSHD
Zeper, Jacobus
Zeron, Luz A.                Consultant                      LCSFM

Supervision/ICR
Aguilera, Ana Silvia         Consultant                      LCSTR
Archondo-Callao, Rodrigo    Sr Highway Engineer              ETWTR
Bazzana, Selva               Consultant                      LCSTR
Berroa, Diomedes             Senior Operations Officer       ECSPS
Blasco, Antonio Leonardo    Financial Management Specialist  LCSFM
Brushett, Stephen J.        Lead Transport Specialist        LCSTR
Cajina, Adan N.              Consultant                      LCSTR
Cardona Moran, Astrid Yerlin Consultant                      LCSFM
Carmona Maya, Sergio Ivan Consultant                         LCSUW



                                              33

Castrellon Sanchez, Fabio   Consultant                         LCSTR
Ceneviva, Carlos            Consultant                         LCSEN
                            Senior Social Development
Correa, Elena               Specialist                          SDV

Corvalan, Cecilia Claudia   Sr Transport. Econ.                LCSTR
Cubillas, Emma Meri         Consultant                         LCSTR
Fam, Adel                   Consultant                         LCSTR
Franz, Juergen Otto A.
Klimenko, Svetlana V.       Financial Management Specialist    LCSFM
                            Lead Private Sector Development
Kopicki, Ronald J.          Spec.                              AFTPS

Ledec, George Campos        Lead Ecologist                     LCSEN
Mallo, Maria Constancia     Case Intake Research Assistant      INT
Martinez, Jose M.           Sr Procurement Spec.               LCSPT
Nogales, Alberto F.         Consultant                         AFTSN
Ochoa, Martin H.            Consultant                         LCSEN
Patino, Oswaldo             Consultant                         LCSTR
Prada Villalobos, Luis R.   Sr Procurement Spec.               LCSPT
Raposo, Gustavo Castro F.   Finance Analyst                   LOADM
Rehman, Manzoor             Consultant                         LCSTR
Rodriguez, Ana              Consultant                         LCSTR
Roman, Enrique Antonio      Financial Management Specialist    LCSFM
Ruan, Guillermo
Russo, Francesca            Consultant                         LCSTR
Sevilla, Manuel
Swami, Rajeev Kumar         Sr Financial Management Specialist LCSFM
Valencia De Estrada, Rosa G. Consultant                        LCSPT
Veizaga, Mary Lou M.        Procurement Analyst                LCSPT
Vilar, Kimberly             E T Consultant                     LCSSO
Villegas, Jorge E.          Social Development Spec.           CESI2
Zambrano Chavez, Marco
Antonio                     Consultant                         LCSTR

Zegras, Christopher P.      Consultant                         LCSTR
Zeron, Luz A.               Consultant                        LCSFM




                                            34

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks    USD Thousands (including
                                                      travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY99                              -                    70,678.48
  FY00                           34.74                 137,820.92

                        Total:   34.74                 208,499.40
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                           23.55                 121,778.04
  FY02                           14.71                  65,390.20
  FY03                           15.87                  83,401.42
  FY04                           16.39                  88,255.49
  FY05                           10.58                  73,551.26
  FY06                           15.24                  97,841.87
  FY07                           13.29                  98,703.61
  FY08                           4.37                   57,521.58
                        Total:  114.00                 686,443.47




                                    35

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


Not Applicable




                                   36

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


 Not Applicable




                                 37

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                        INFORME FINAL DEL PRESTATARIO

 1. Evaluación de los Objetivos

 Objetivos originales del Proyecto consistían en: (1) la restauración de los caminos
 dañados por el Huracán Mitch, (2) el mejoramiento de los corredores viales de
 intercambio comercial en el país y (3) el de establecer un marco financiero e
 institucional sustentable y transparente para el subsector vial del país. A continuación
 de describen los logros alcanzados durante la ejecución del proyecto.

 Logros Alcanzados

 El proyecto "Mejoramiento y Reconstrucción de Carreteras" fue ejecutado de forma
 altamente satisfactoria. En relación al objetivo 1: restauración de caminos dañados por
 el Huracán Mitch, las metas del proyecto fueron alcanzadas y un total de 102,1 km de
 caminos rurales y 565,7 m de puentes de la red secundaria y terciaria del país fueron
 rehabilitados o reconstruidos, apoyando al financiamiento en paralelo por otras
 entidades multilaterales.

 Con respecto al objetivo 2: mejoramiento de corredores viales de intercambio
 comercial en el país, el Proyecto financió exitosamente la rehabilitación y
 mejoramiento de 232.2 km. que forman parte de los principales corredores de
 Centroamérica y del país. Las obras ejecutadas han tenido un impacto positivo medido
 tanto por la reducción del tiempo y de los costos de operación vehicular.

 En cuanto al objetivo 3: establecer un marco financiero e institucional sustentable y
 transparente para el sub-sector vial del país, SOPTRAVI actualmente cuenta con los
 mecanismos para realizar una gestión organizada y eficiente que asegure la inversión
 en áreas prioritarias para el desarrollo económico, la competitividad y el combate a la
 pobreza. El Proyecto apoyó a las Unidades de Planificación y de Gestión Ambiental
 de SOPTRAVI, al Fondo Vial y al Ferrocarril Nacional de Honduras; además, para
 fortalecer la capacidad ejecutiva y de administración integral de SOPTRAVI se realizó
 acciones de fortalecimiento en las áreas de gestión; planeamiento estratégico y de
 inversiones, pago y contrataciones, recursos humanos, gestión ambiental, seguridad
 vial, entre otras.

 Respecto de la cobertura de mantenimiento en la red vial nacional, se logró sólo el
 60% en relación con el 70% de la red vial nacional (principal, secundaria y vecinal)
 inicialmente proyectado, debido a la insuficiente asignación de recursos para el Fondo
 Vial.




                                           38

2. Componentes Original y Revisado

Componentes originales: el costo total del Proyecto fue de US$ 66,5 millones
provenientes del crédito y US$ 40,3 millones del aporte local. El crédito se distribuyó
en los cuatro componentes siguientes: (a) Reconstrucción, Rehabilitación y
Mejoramiento de Carreteras: (a.1) rehabilitación de cerca de 84 km del tramo
Tegucigalpa­Danlí, (a.2) rehabilitación de cerca de 40 km. del tramo Jícaro Galán­El
Amatillo), (a.3) reconstrucción y rehabilitación de cerca de 47 km del tramo El
Negrito­Portillo de Chancaya, sección de la carretera Santa Rita­Yoro, (a.4)
mejoramiento de aproximadamente 45 km de la carretera Olanchito-San Lorenzo,
(a.5) mejoramiento de cerca de 47 km. del tramo Río Dulce-El Porvenir; (b) Programa
de Caminos Rurales y Puentes; (c) Programa Piloto de Mantenimiento Vial; y (d)
Administración y Supervisión del Proyecto: (d.1) Asistencia técnica a SOPTRAVI
para: (1) supervisión de los trabajos de los componentes a y b, y (2) asistencia técnica
al Fondo Vial para la supervisión del componente c, (d.2) fortalecimiento de la DGC,
UPEG y UGA en áreas relacionadas con diseño y supervisión de puentes,
planificación y ambiente, a través de la provisión de asistencia técnica u adquisición/
utilización de bienes que sean requeridos, (d.3) asistencia técnica al Fondo Vial con el
objeto de: (1) fortalecer su capacidad administrativa y técnica, y (2) capacidad para
monitorear y evaluar las obras que se ejecutaran en el componente c del Proyecto,
(d.4) asistencia técnica a SOPTRAVI para la implementación del Plan de Acción que
resultara del Estudio del Ferrocarril, (d.5) programa de capacitación en operación vial
a: (1) SOPTRAVI y (2) Fondo Vial, (d.6) asistencia técnica a SOPTRAVI para la
administración, coordinación, y evaluación de la ejecución del Proyecto.

Componentes revisados: el Proyecto fue implementado satisfactoriamente. El monto
ejecutado con recursos del crédito fue de US$ 73.24 millones y el de aporte local, de
US$
13.72 millones.     Uno de los subcomponentes revisados fue a.4, que pasó a la
realización de estudios relacionados con el mejoramiento de aproximadamente 45 km
la carretera Olanchito-San Lorenzo -modificado en la segunda enmienda- (el resto de
subcomponentes se mantuvo igual). A solicitud del Ministro de SOPTRAVI, el Banco
Mundial aprobó una primera redistribución de los fondos, reasignando los recursos no
comprometidos al 2003 para poder atender las Obras de Mejoramiento en el Tramo de
la Carretera del Norte CA-5 "Taulabé-La Barca" de aproximadamente 53 km, en
reemplazo del Proyecto "Pavimentación Carretera Olanchito-San Lorenzo", dado que
el proceso para llevar previamente a cabo el Plan de Acción para la protección del
colibrí Esmeralda Hondureño que se ubica en ese corredor vial, no podía haberse
finalizado en un tiempo que permitiera contratar y efectuar los trabajos antes del
vencimiento del plazo de vigencia del Crédito. También se revisó el componente c,
donde se produjo un aumento en el número de kilómetros que iba a ser atendido por
las MEACV: de 900 ó 1 000 kilómetros previstos inicialmente a 1 670.

2.1. Componente a: Reconstrucción, Rehabilitación y Mejoramiento de
Carreteras
El proyecto realizó obras de mejoramiento, pavimentación, construcción o



                                          39

reconstrucción de carreteras y puentes que forman parte de la red vial nacional; el
correspondiente mantenimiento está a cargo del Fondo Vial. También, se elaboró el
Plan de Mantenimiento Vial 2007-2010 (aprobado por la SEFIN y las instituciones
que conforman la Mesa de Cooperantes), en el cual se describe los compromisos del
Fondo Vial, como la revisión y validación del inventario vial, actualización de los
costos de las operaciones de mantenimiento vial, entre otros; y se definió el Plan
Plurianual de Inversiones de Mantenimiento.


Actualmente, los siguientes tramos mejorados bajo este componente reciben
mantenimiento rutinario por parte de las microempresas: Santa Rita-Yoro, El Negrito-
Portillo de Chancaya, Río Dulce-El Porvenir, Tegucigalpa-Danlí (hasta el kilómetro
50), Jícaro Galán-El Amatillo y Taulabé-La Barca.

2.2. Componente B: Programa de Caminos Rurales y Puentes
Con este componente se realizaron obras de reconstrucción y rehabilitación en un total
de 102,1 km de caminos rurales y 565,7 m de puentes distribuidos en cuatro contratos.
El primer contrato incluía el tramo El Chile-Palma Real y la construcción del puente
Río Blanco N° 2; el segundo, el tramo San Pedro de Zacapa-Agua Caliente-Azacualpa
y la construcción de los Puentes Jaitique y Agua Caliente; el tercero comprendió la
rehabilitación de los tramos Colinas-San Luis-Desvío a Palmira; y el cuarto, la
construcción de los puentes Río Choluteca (Paso Tamarindo), Agua Fría y Guasure.

También se ha realizado intervenciones para hacer trabajos de mantenimiento
periódico de caminos vecinales y puentes en los tramos rehabilitados como parte del
Programa de Caminos Rurales y Puentes y de acuerdo con las prioridades definidas en
el Plan de Mantenimiento Vial. Los tramos en cuestión son los siguientes: El Chile-
Palma Real-Los Puentes, San Pedro Zacapa­Agua Caliente, V-690­Azacualpa, San
José de Las Colinas­San Francisco­El Carrizal­San Luis y Carretera Oropolí-Alauca.

2.3. Componente c: Programa Piloto de Mantenimiento Vial
El Fondo Vial está atendiendo un 93,4% de la red vial pavimentada (principal y
secundaria) a través de 70 microempresas que están dentro de un programa de
capacitación para su fortalecimiento y expansión de servicios en otras áreas
productivas. Dicho programa funciona en el Fondo Vial permanentemente, y desde su
instauración es perceptible una gran diferencia en el estado de limpieza de las vías
atendidas. Por otro lado, los microempresarios han comenzado a realizar, como parte
de su funcionamiento, apertura de cuentas bancarias, relación con entes financieros
nacionales y el BM, rendición de garantías contractuales, reuniones de su Junta
Directiva, manejo y control de fondos, etc. Asimismo, han sido capacitados en áreas
como aprovechamiento de desechos para su reciclaje, alfabetización y proyección
social.

El Proyecto ha generado desde su inicio en el año 2001 hasta este año 2007 un
aumento: (i) del número de microempresas: de 36 a 70; (ii) del número de socios: de
498 a 899; (iii) del número aproximado de beneficiarios directos (familiares): de 2 988



                                        40

a 5 394; (iv) en la cobertura de la red vial atendida: de 1 694 km a 2 779 km; y (v) del
porcentaje de la red vial pavimentada: de 61,03% al 93,41%.               Asimismo, en
cumplimiento del compromiso del 100% de cobertura en mantenimiento rutinario de
la red vial nacional para el año 2010, se ha iniciado acciones con el fin de establecer
paralelamente para la red vial vecinal el Programa Peón Caminero.

2.4. Componente de Administración y Supervisión del Proyecto
Se ha llevado a cabo el fortalecimiento de la capacidad funcional y operativa de la
DGC, UGA y de la UPEG mediante el apoyo y asistencia técnica prestada por
consultores contratados para este fin.

Cabe mencionar que se produjo la extensión de la fecha de cierre del convenio del 31
de marzo de 2006 hasta el 30 de junio de 2007, a solicitud de la SEFIN; así como la
extensión parcial de la fecha de cierre del convenio al 30 de setiembre de 2007,
únicamente para los servicios de la UCP y con el objetivo de preparar el informe final
de ejecución del Proyecto y los reportes financieros, apoyar en la administración de
los reclamos respecto de la construcción de las obras de Taulabé-La Barca, asistir a
SOPTRAVI en las acciones tendientes a asegurar la implementación del Plan
Remedial de Reasentamiento Involuntario de Taulabé-La Barca y los arreglos para su
posterior monitoreo, y preparar el ICP.

3. Programa de Microempresas Asociativas de Conservación Vial

Este programa ha impulsado el desarrollo el desarrollo de las familias que lo integran.
El nivel de vida de los microempresarios ha mejorado en cuanto a alimentación,
posibilidades de educación para sus hijos, vestimenta, vivienda (el 45% de los 508
socios construyó su casa y el resto hizo mejoras a su vivienda); algunos han podido
comprar terrenos y animales.

Por un lado, algunas microempresas han diversificado sus actividades: el 42% de 36
microempresas se dedica al cultivo de maíz, frijoles, hortalizas y café; el 14%, a la cría
de peces. El 44% vende la basura que recoge durante sus labores de mantenimiento
vial para que sea reciclada. Por otro lado, muchas, se proyectan en sus comunidades a
través de la realización de limpieza de colegios, escuelas, campos de fútbol, postas
policiales, iglesias; traslado de enfermos a hospitales, de muertos, de merienda
escolar;   ofrecer mano de obra para reparar escuelas; entre otras actividades.
Asimismo, el 8% posee tienda de consumo; el 5,5% tierra para cultivo; el 55%, su
sedes; el 11%, terreno para construir la sede y el 100%, vehículos.


4. Planes de Mitigación Ambiental

Con relación a la rehabilitación y mejoramiento de carreteras y la rehabilitación de
caminos vecinales y puentes, para reducir los efectos negativos ocasionados por la
ejecución de las obras, se incluyó en los términos de referencia para estudios y los de
supervisión, en los documentos de licitación para la ejecución de obras y en los
documentos contractuales, las acciones que se debían tomar con el fin de minimizar e
incluso mejorar las condiciones ambientales. Durante la ejecución de las obras se dio


                                          41

cumplimiento de los compromisos adquiridos en los contratos de medidas de
mitigación suscritas con la SERNA para la obtención de licencias ambientales, el
monitoreo diario de la calidad de las obras y prácticas ambientales de los contratistas,
el seguimiento periódico de la ejecución de las obras, la evaluación de la calidad de la
supervisión ambiental de las obras por parte de la UGA y la coordinación de las
evaluaciones ambientales que la AIF solicitó.

Por otro lado, se realizó actividades contempladas en el Plan de Acción para la
Protección del Colibrí Esmeralda y su hábitat, las cuales fueron: (i) catastro rural y
censo de ocupantes, mediante Convenio Interinstitucional SOPTRAVI-SAG,
finalizado en diciembre de 2006; (ii) declaratoria como Área Protegida, bajo la
categoría Área de Manejo Hábitat/Especies, al Polígono de Tiro de la Fuerza Aérea (1
200 hectáreas), mediante Decreto del Congreso Nacional Nº 159-05; (iii) protección al
Polígono de Tiro de la Fuerza Aérea, ejecutado por la FUPNAPIB, consistente en la
demarcación y cercado con sus respectivos hitos y rótulos, tal como lo establece el
reglamento de áreas protegidas, y la construcción de un Centro de Visitantes; y (iv)
estudio para la identificación y registro de propietarios de potenciales servidumbres
ecológicas/reservas privadas para el establecimiento de incentivos para la
conservación del colibrí esmeralda.

5. Plan Remedial de Reasentamiento Involuntario (PRRI)

Previo a la ejecución de las obras comprendidas en el Proyecto, se elaboró e
implementó los respectivos planes de reasentamiento, que incluyeron la toma de todas
las medidas que permitieron restaurar, y en la mayoría de los casos, mejorar las
condiciones de vida para las personas desplazadas al nivel que tenían antes de
producirse el desplazamiento.
La totalidad de las personas desplazadas se asentaba dentro de los límites del Derecho
de Vía, que legalmente es propiedad del Gobierno de Honduras, por lo que al ser
reubicados, se les proveyó derechos de posesión sobre los terrenos en que se ubicaron
finalmente. En cuanto a las demás afectaciones, los propietarios fueron debidamente
indemnizados con el pago del valor del área o de las mejoras.


El proceso de reasentamiento fue realizado en tres grandes fases: (i) negociación y
avalúos de terrenos y mejoras; (ii) elaboración de la línea base; y (iii) asesoría técnica.
Los objetivos del Proyecto en función de este proceso fueron: (i) continuar con el
control y seguimiento del desarrollo de las acciones de la implementación del PRRI
del proyecto de la Carretera CA-5 Norte, Tramo Taulabé­La Barca; y (ii) brindar
asistencia al personal de la UGA sobre la implementación del PRRI.

Los avances en la implementación del PRRI se enmarcan en el Programa de
Mejoramiento de Vivienda y en el Programa de Reactivación Económica. En cuanto al
primero, se tiene que en el Reasentamiento de Prado Alto, se continúa con avances en
la construcción de las viviendas. Actualmente, están finalizadas seis viviendas y dos
están a nivel de levantamiento de paredes y estructura del techo. En tanto, en el
Reasentamiento de Brisas del Bambú, se ha finalizado la construcción de cuatro


                                         42

viviendas y están en proceso de levantamiento de paredes seis viviendas. En este
sector se realizó un aprovechamiento de la madera de pino en la construcción de
puertas, ventanas y paredes. Esta actividad fue coordinada por el técnico ambiental de
la UGA de SOPTRAVI.

Con relación al Programa de Reactivación Económica, se realizó reuniones de
seguimiento con la cooperativa de vendedores de frutas del sector de la comunidad de
San José de Balincito, caja rural Las Cascadas, la cual ya cuenta con personería
jurídica. Los vendedores están ubicados en el plantel construido por el PRRI; que
cuenta con el servicio de energía eléctrica suministrado por la ENEE, y por iniciativa
de los vendedores de fruta, con suministro de agua. Asimismo, se construyó varias
letrinas de fosa simple para uso de los clientes y de los miembros de la asociación de
vendedores, y las bahías de lavacarros, al igual que todo el plantel, funcionan de
acuerdo con el reglamento y estatutos establecidos durante el desarrollo del PRRI.

En cuanto a los tipos de afectaciones, se tiene que en los tramos El Negrito-Portillo de
Chancaya y Río Dulce-El Porvenir se ha realizado 32 afectaciones: (i) terreno parcial:
21; vivienda parcial: 1; vivienda total: 4; vivienda-negocio: 1; negocio parcial:3,
afectaciones menores con pago de indemnización: 1, y escuela parcial: 1: En el tramo
Taulabé- La Barca, se realizó 242 afectaciones: vivienda parcial: 83; vivienda total:
35; vivienda-negocio:13; y negocio parcial: 7; negocio total: 27 fruteros y 23
lavadores de carros; afectaciones menores con pago de indemnización: 54. En este
tramo, se proporcionó apoyo técnico y legal a los vendedores de fruta y lavadores de
carros que ejercían sus actividades dentro del Derecho de Vía, para constituirse en
asociaciones con personería jurídica, lo que permitió fundar a los lavadores de carros
la cooperativa mixta Jardines de Taulabé, y a los vendedores de fruta y los afectados
en sus viviendas, la Caja Rural de Ahorro y Crédito La Cascada, con asesoría en
autoconstrucción y organización comunitaria.

6. Papel del Banco

En la fase de preparación del Proyecto, la rapidez del trabajo del Banco en cuanto a
trámites fue altamente satisfactoria, en especial el correspondiente a la suscripción del
Crédito. El Banco realizó un seguimiento periódico a través de las misiones de
supervisión financiera, técnica, administrativa, de adquisiciones y de salvaguarda
ambiental y social. Hubo una estrecha colaboración de los especialistas asignados en
esas misiones con las unidades ejecutoras del Proyecto, lo que permitió contar con una
asesoría y asistencia permanente en las respectivas áreas. Asimismo, el seguimiento al
cumplimiento de los compromisos facilitó el desarrollo del Proyecto, pues la
supervisión fue constante y no se limitó a las visitas periódicas.


El desempeño del Banco se considera excelente, especialmente debido a la rápida
atención de solicitudes de No-Objeción y a la asesoría brindada en cuanto a las
asistencias técnicas contratadas. A iniciativa del Banco, se realizó talleres para
analizar temas como el Plan de Acción para la protección del Colibrí Esmeralda, y los
resultados de estudios sobre transporte. También, deseamos destacar el desempeño de


                                          43

los task manager, el cual ha sido muy satisfactorio, dado que siempre se mantuvo una
muy buena comunicación, y fueron muy eficientes en su función.


7. Papel del Prestatario
Durante la fase preparatoria (y de la implementación), los funcionarios involucrados
en el Proyecto mantuvieron una estrecha comunicación con las Unidades Ejecutora y
Coordinadora del Proyecto (UEP; UCP), las que trabajaron coordinada y
eficientemente. Sin embargo, hubo atrasos en el cumplimiento de condiciones previas,
debido a los cambios en el Gobierno.

En cuanto a los fondos de contrapartida, éstos fueron oportunamente incluidos dentro
del presupuesto asignado anualmente a las Unidades Ejecutoras en SOPTRAVI y
Fondo Vial, y las asignaciones adicionales solicitadas fueron ubicadas en forma ágil,
por lo que los pagos se realizaron con fluidez. El cambio al sistema de pagos (SIAFI),
contribuyó a disminuir el tiempo de pago.

El trabajo de la UCP (ASP consultores) se puede calificar como excelente para los seis
años del contrato. Esto, además de contribuir con el cumplimiento de metas y
objetivos, también apoyó a SOPTRAVI en el desarrollo de otros proyectos no
incluidos en el contrato y a recibir oportuna asesoría en la solución de problemas
técnicos, legales y administrativos. Asimismo, mantuvo una buena comunicación con
el Banco Mundial, los funcionarios de SOPTRAVI, Fondo Vial y otras instituciones
involucradas en la ejecución del Proyecto.

El apoyo recibido permitió el cumplimiento de las condiciones legales y de las
obligaciones fiduciarias y de salvaguardias contempladas en los términos contractuales
del Proyecto. En general, el desempeño del Gobierno y de la UCP ha sido satisfactorio
como lo demuestran los resultados obtenidos, ya que todas las instituciones
involucradas en el Proyecto cumplieron eficientemente sus responsabilidades,
respetando los convenios interinstitucionales suscritos.

8. Factores que Afectaron la Implementación y Resultados del Proyecto

El conocimiento por parte del team leader de la realidad del país y de las instituciones
responsables del manejo de la red vial, producto de su actividad como task manager
de anteriores créditos que estaban en su etapa de implementación durante la
preparación del Proyecto, permitieron que en el diseño de éste se tomara en cuenta las
lecciones aprendidas de los anteriores proyectos para mejorar el nuevo, así como que
se pudiera percibir los diferentes grados de riesgo en su implementación.

Para la entrada en vigor del crédito (condición de efectividad), hubo atrasos por parte
de la SEFIN en los procesos de contratación de las empresas que se encargarían de: la
auditoria del Crédito y de la coordinación del Proyecto (Unidad Coordinadora). En
ambos casos, en la aprobación del financiamiento de los contratos generando un
retraso de un año.



                                          44

Durante la fase de implementación del Proyecto, la imposibilidad de implementar
satisfactoriamente el plan de acción diseñado para la protección del colibrí Esmeralda
y su hábitat produjo un desfase de 15 meses (lo que incidió en la modificación de la
fecha de cierre: del 31 de marzo de 2006 al 30 de junio de 2007). Ello originó la
solicitud de SOPTRAVI para postergar las obras del Proyecto, y en su lugar incluir el
mejoramiento del tramo Taulabé-La Barca de la CA5- Norte.

Cabe indicar que hubo sobrecostos en la ejecución de las obras en general: la totalidad
de las obras construidas tuvieron costos adicionales cuyas principales causas fueron:
(i) cambios radicales introducidos por el respectivo supervisor sobre los diseños
originales; (ii) considerable desfase entre la fecha de preparación de los diseños y el
inicio de las obras; (iii) escalamiento o ajuste de precios en grado significativamente
mayor al considerado en el presupuesto de obras y (iv) ampliación al alcance del
contrato por adición de obras no contempladas originalmente pero que por
disponibilidad financiera dentro del crédito fueron incluidas. Asimismo, los plazos de
ejecución fueron ampliados para la ejecución de obras adicionales.




                                         45

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                  46

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1. Project Concept Note,
2. Project Appraisal Document,
3. Aide Memories, Back to Office reports and Project Status Reports
4. Project Paper for Restructuring, January 2007




                                                47

