Report No. PID7175
Project Name                     Bangladesh-Agricultural Services Innovation..
and Reform Project (ASIRP) - Learning and
Innovation Components
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Rural Development
Project ID                       BDPE58468
Borrower                         Government of Bangladesh (GOB)
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE),
and Horticultural Export Foundation (HORTEX)
Contacts:
Mr. Enamul Haque
Director General
Department of Agricultural Extension
Khamarbari, Middle Building, Room 327
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Tel: 880-2-815267
Fax: 880-2-811884
Dr. Abdul Quasem
General Manager
HORTEX Foundation
3/1 Block B, Lalmatia
Dhaka-1207, Bangladesh
Tel: 880-2-9125181
E-Mail: Hortex@citechco.net
Date of this PID prepared        November 30, 1998
Project Appraisal Date           November 8, 1998
Projected Approval Date          February 1999
Country and Sector Background:
Agriculture dominates the economy of Bangladesh, generating about 35; of
GDP, providing 60t of employment and accounting for about half the value of
export earnings. The country is among the poorest of the world (GDP $
250/year). Over half the households live in moderate or extreme poverty, with
a significant proportion of the remainder only marginally above the poverty
line and vulnerable to falling into poverty in case of unfavourable
developments (illness, floods, cyclones, erosion, or unfavourable price
developments).
Faster agricultural growth and rural development are critical in
Bangladesh, with more than 90 percent of the poor living in rural areas.
While much has been achieved, particularly in moving Bangladesh from chronic
foodgrain shortages to rice self-sufficiency (in years of normal weather),
this progress creates new challenges. Rice covers currently 75t of cropped
land. Continued agricultural growth faster than population requires, inter



alia, farmers learning techniques for growing different crops efficiently, and
development of the marketing knowledge and infrastructure to enable Bangladesh
to take advantage of opportunities. At the same time, efforts on
intensification of rice production must continue, to enable land to be
released to other crops. The Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP-IDA
Credit 2233-BD) for which IDA financing closed on June 30, 1998 (with British
DFID financing continuing to March 31, 1999) has fostered significant progress
in improving extension services. This includes improved targeting of
extension to the needs of women and small, marginal and landless farmers. A
major breakthrough toward the end of ASSP was the Governments decision in July
1996 to adopt a New Agricultural Extension Policy(NAEP). NAEP emphasizes
bottom-up participatory appraisal of the farmer's extension needs and
decentralized design of extension programs to reflect the needs of the local
farming community. It also includes strengthened partnerships with NGOs and
other government organizations (including local government and the extension
programs in fisheries, livestock and forestry). While NAEP has made a
promising start, implementation is still fragile. Extension staff need more
training in participatory needs assessment and decentralized design.
Techniques need to be tested and refined before being expanded into a full-
scale project. NGO cooperative programs need also to be decentralized rather
than coordinated from Dhaka as at present. Models of how best to work in
partnership with newly empowered local governments have to be tested.
The Horticultural Export Foundation (HORTEX) component, which was a major
disappointment through most of ASSP, has made very good progress since the
current General Manager was appointed in May 1997. HORTEX made arrangements
with an NGO (BRAC) for contract farming of fine french beans, identified
interested buyers in Europe, selected appropriate seeds and other agronomic
techniques and inputs, developed and contracted for export-quality boxes,
trained BRAC staff in providing extension services and appropriate grading,
and organized export logistics. The resulting export of 27 tons represents
the first successful horticultural export to the high quality segment of the
European market. Since then, HORTEX has also organized about 5 tons of
exports (through June 1998) of summer fruits and vegetables. In the case of
these more traditional exports, HORTEX's role has been to assist in improving
production and handling practices, so as to increase value added by entering
non-ethnic markets, improving quality and reducing spoilage. HORTEX has also
recently arranged trial export shipments of baby pineapples from Chittagong
Hill Tracts (CHT) to England, which were well received. If Bangladesh is to
take advantage of opportunities for profitable new export ventures in
horticultural products, the type of initial technical and logistical
assistance provided by HORTEX appears necessary. However, further testing and
development is needed on how best to provide the required support to encourage
horticultural export initiatives.
In a 1997 memorandum of Understanding between the World Bank President
and the FAO Director-General, it was agreed that the World Bank would support
FAO's Special Program for Food Security (SPSF). Based on this Memorandum, GOB
requested IDA support under the SPSF for small scale pilot programs designed
to test promising techniques for improving production and food security for
their applicability and affordability to Bangladeshi small farmers.
Project Objectives:
To achieve the ultimate goals of higher agricultural productivity and
- 2-



incomes through production intensification and diversification, a learning and
innovation loan (LIL) is proposed to test and refine various agricultural
technical transfer programs designed to foster more demand-driven and locally
responsive extension techniques. It is hoped that the lessons learned from
the trials supported under the LIL, if successful, will justify scaling up
under a future project. In particular, the proposed LIL aims to (i) provide
support through HORTEX to pioneering horticultural production and export
activities, with emphasis on contract farming though NGOs or private
entrepreneurs; (ii) test and develop methods for improving partnership
programs between the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) and other
extension providers (NGOs, private sector, and other government departments)
in developing and conveying appropriate extension messages; and (iii) carry
out small pilot and demonstration programs, under the FAO-sponsored SPFS, of
possible measures, linked to a demand-driven extension service for improving
production and food security.
Project Description:
The learning and innovation components of ASIRP supported under the LIL
are:
(a)     Support for HORTEX's program for providing catalytic technical services
and logistical support to pioneering horticultural production and export
activities.
(b)     Grants for extension partnership programs among NGOs, DAE, and other
government agencies; and assistance in strengthening monitoring and evaluation
of extension effectiveness.
(c)     Small scale pilot programs, under FAO's Special Program for Food
Security, of possible measures to improve (i) on-farm water management; (ii)
soil fertility management; and (iii) use of weather information for crop yield
forecasting and advice to farmers on coping with weather variations.
Project Financing:
The cost of the learning and innovation components of ASIRP is estimated
at US$ 14.0 million equivalent. It is proposed that IDA would provide US$ 5
million equivalent as a LIL. The Department for International Development
(DFID) of United Kingdom is expected to provide about US$ 6.9 million
equivalent, FAO through its Special Program for Food Security would provide
about US$ 0.3 million equivalent, GOB about US$ 1.7 million equivalent, and
beneficiaries about US$ 0.1 million equivalent. In parallel, an extension
capacity building program would be financed by a grant of about $ 8.5 million
equivalent from DFID and about $ 5.6 million from GOB.
Project Implementation:
MOA, through the Secretary, would have overall responsibility for project
implementation. A Project Steering Committee, chaired by Secretary, MOA, and
including Joint Secretary, MOA, Director General of DAE, General Manager of
HORTEX, respective Project Directors and a representative of the Economic
Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance would be responsible for overall
coordination and monitoring. Most components, other than the horticultural
production and export component, would be managed by DAE and coordinated by
- 3 -



the existing DAE Management Committee. The Director of the Field Services
Wing of DAE would be Project Director of DAE components. The partnership
programs would be coordinated at the national level by the existing Extension
Policy Implementation Coordination Committee with membership from NGOs, DAE,
other government agencies (local government, Ministries of Livestock and
Fisheries and Environment and Forest) and the private sector. Similar
existing committees at District and thana level would manage most of the
partnership programs. HORTEX, an autonomous non-profit foundation organized
under the companies Act, with a majority of its Governing Body from the
private sector and NGOs, would manage the horticultural production and export
component. FAO would provide technical expertise and logistical support for
the SPSF components. DFID-financed consultants would assist DAE in
implementing the partnership and monitoring and evaluation component.
Sustainability:
The purpose of the LIL is to test and refine various innovative programs,
with sustainability dependent upon their success. Sustainability of the
extension reform aspects of the project is strengthened by formal MOA approval
of the New Agricultural Extension Policy in 1996, and an agreed implementation
strategy in 1997, combined with good farmer support at the grass roots level.
However, while the partnership programs have had initial success, techniques
for adopting them to a more decentralized extension system need to be
developed and tested. Despite the initial success of HORTEX, its
sustainability as an institution is not secure. It is likely that a further
period of donor support beyond the current project would be required.
Thereafter, if HORTEX has succeeded in developing a brand name and a
reputation that is valued by Bangladeshi exporters, it should be able to
become self-financing as export volumes expand. Alternatively, if HORTEX
succeeds in teaching and modeling skills required for Bangladeshi private
firms and NGOs to produce and export horticultural products successfully
without continued HORTEX services, HORTEX will have accomplished its mission.
The three small-scale pilot trials are intended to be experiments with lessons
learned to be incorporated as part of regular DAE or MOA operations, combined
hopefully with NGO and/or private sector interest in commercially run soil
testing facilities.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations:
Project design reflects the following lessons from projects to improve
technology transfer systems in Bangladesh and elsewhere:
As farming systems become more complex and sophisticated, agricultural
extension systems need to become more decentralized to reflect location-
specific issues identified in farmers needs assessments;
the synergy between MOA technical skills and NGO skills in organizing groups
of farmers can be mutually beneficial, particularly in reaching landless
sharecroppers, marginal and small farmers and female farmers;
cooperation between a technical agency with access to international experience
and NGOs which have gained the trust of small farmers can be useful in
introducing new higher-value crops in a country dominated by small farmers;
and
in developing solutions to farmer problems, it is useful to experiment on a
small-scale, with full farmer participation in defining needs and designing
appropriate solutions within farmer financial capacity.
- 4 -



The project design also supports continuation of progress under ASSP in
implementing the following lessons:
Government commitment as demonstrated by an approved National Extension Policy
and a plan for its implementation is crucial for success of extension
innovation; and
third party farmers' satisfaction surveys are very useful to evaluate
effectiveness of extension programs.
Poverty Category:
The project is not a "Program of Targeted Interventions". However
independent evaluation studies indicate that 65% to 70% of farmers attending
DAE field days and farmer training programs are now in the category of small
farmers (less than 2.5 acres). The NGO partnerships would reflect the NGO's
focus on landless share croppers, small and marginal farmers and female
farmers. Similarly HORTEX's major achievements to-date have involved working
with an NGO organizing contract farming arrangements with small farmers.
Environmental Aspects:
DAE's portfolio of extension messages and training seeks to encourage
farmers to reduce use of pesticides through integrated pest management when
applicable and possible, to improve and rationalize on-farm water management
through better drainage and more efficient irrigation practices, to promote
sustainable soil fertility management through a more balanced use of inorganic
fertilizers, and to return more organic matter to the soil. The parallel
DFID-assisted extension capacity building program would improve on the
delivery of these messages. In particular it would assist in developing
procedural mechanisms, responsibilities, and skills to ensure that impact
assessment processes and environmental management procedures are fully
integrated into DAE operations. The NGO partnerships financed under the LIL
would strengthen the environmental orientation of extension messages. Two of
the SPSF pilot programs would test improved methods of soil nutrition
management and on-farm water management. With regard to the HORTEX component,
the three year Business Plan recognizes that supermarkets in UK and other
European countries give better prices for "environmentally friendly"
vegetables, meeting standards for food safety and ethical production. The
Business Plan also suggests building the necessary structure which could
support fully organic horticultural production in the future. The program for
assisting production/export of baby pineapple from CHT would support
appropriate terraced production techniques for hill-side farming.
Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable Development (EN)
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
- 5 -



Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 18, 1998.
- 6 -



