Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19662-BD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.8 MILLION
(US $5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FORA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES INNOVATION AND REFORM PROJECT
August26, 1999
Rural Development Sector Unit
Bangladesh Country Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 19, 1999)
Currency Unit = Taka (Tk.)
TK = US$ 0.021
US$1:0Q =Tk49.50
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARMP         Agricultural Research Management Project (Credit # 2815-BD)
ASIRP        Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project
ASSP         Agricultural Support Services Project (Credit # 2233-BD)
ATI          Agricultural Training Institute
AU           Agrometeorological Unit
BFA          Bangladesh Fertilizer Association (association of fertilizer dealers)
BMD          Bangladesh Meteorological Department
BRAC         Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee (an NGO)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CHT          Chittagong Hill Tracts
DAE          Department of Agricultural Extension
DEPC'        District Extension Programming Committee
DFID        Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
EPICC        Extension Policy Implementation Coordination Committee
EWFIS        Early Warnring Food Information System
FAO         Food and Agricultural Organization
FINA        Farmer Information Needs Assessment
FPMU         Food Planning and Monitoring Unit, of the Ministry of Food
GOB          Government of Bangladesh
HORTEX       Horticultural Export Development Foundation
IMED         Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division of the Ministry of Planning
KAP          Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices surveys
LIL         Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS         Management Information System
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture
NAEP         New Agricultural Extension Policy
NARS         National Agricultural Research System
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
OFWM         On Farm Water Management
PCP          Project Concept Paper, a GOB project approval document
PP           Project Proforma, a GOB project budget approval document
RIBEC        Reform in Budgetary Expenditure and Control
SPFS         Special Program for Food Security
SRDI         Soil Research Development Institute
TA           Technical Assistance
TAECC        Thana Agricultural Extension Coordinating Committee
Thana        Subdistrict, the second smallest administrative unit of local government
FISCAL YEAR (July 1 - June 30)
Vice President: Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director: Frederick Thomas Temple
Sector Manager/Director: Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Robert Epworth/H. Gassner



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES INNOVATION AND REFORM PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
CONTENTS
Page No.
A. Project Development Objective ..................................................................3
1.  Sector Background ..................................................................3
2. Project development objective ..................................................................4
3. Key performance indicators ..................................................................4
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................5
1. Sector-related  CAS  goal supported by the project ......................................................5
2. Main  sector issues and Govemment strategy ............................................................5
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ..............................7
C. Project Description Summary ..................................................................9
1. Project components ..................................................................9
2. Key policy  and institutional reforms supported by the project ....................................9
3. Benefits and target population .................................................................                                 10
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements .......................................................... 10
D. Project Rationale .................................................................                                                          12
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection ........................................... 12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ..... 13
3. Lessons leamed  and reflected  in proposed project design .......................................... 14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................. 14
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project ............................................................... 14
E. Summary Project Analyses .................................................................                                                   15
1. Economic ................................................................. 15
2. Financial .................................................................                                                      15
3. Technical ................................................................. 16
4.  Institutional ................................................................. 16
5.  Social .................................................................                                                        16
6. Environmental assessment .................................................................. 17
7. Participatory  approach .................................................................                                        17
F. Sustainability and Risks .................................................................                                                   17
1.  Sustainability ...........................................................                                                     17
2. Critical risks ...........................................................                                                       19
3. Possible controversial aspects ...........................................................                                       20



G. Main Loan Conditions ...........................                                20
1. Effectiveness conditions ........................... 20
2. Condition of Disbursement ...........................                    20
3. Other Covenants ........................... 20
H. Readiness for Implementation ...........................                        20
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ...........................                       21
Annexes
Annex 1.   Project Design Summary. ..2 t
Annex 2.    Detailed Project Description. .be
Annex 3.   Estimated Project Costs.                                                3%)-
Annex 4.    Economic Analysis Summary ..1.4
Annex 5.        Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or
Financial Summary.                                                 41-q4 Ž
Annex 6.        Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements..                        42-
Table A.         Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements . 
Table B.         Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ..  .          'j 
Table C.         Allocation of Credit Proceeds ..47<
Annex 7.        Project Processing Budget and Schedule .                              SX
Annex 8.    Documents in Project File ....
Annex 9.    Statement of Loans and Credits .
Annex 10.  Country at a Glance...                                                  55
Map: IBRD 24206R1



Bangladesh
Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Region
Bangladesh Country Department
Date: 07i21/98                                      Task Team Leader/Task Manager: R. Epworth/H. Gassner
Country Director: Frederick Thomas Temple           Sector Manager/Director: Ridwan Ali
Project ID: BD-PE-58468  Sector: Rural Development  Program Objective Category: E-nvironmentally Sustainable Development
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan    Program of Targeted Intervention:   []Yes  [ x ] No
Project Financing Data                [] Loan    [x ] Credit      [] Guarantee       [ ] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$5.0/SDR 3.8
Proposed terms:                         (]  Multicurrency   [   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):              []  Standard        [   Fixed            [      LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity:
Commitment fee: %
Service charge: %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local              Foreign             Total
IDA                                                         3.3                 1.7               5.0
Donors:
DFID                                                        4.8                 2.1               6.9
FAO                                                         0.1                 0.4               0.5
Government of Bangladesh                                    1.8                                   1.8
Other (specify) Beneficiaries, NGOs, and
Bangladesh Fertilizer Association                         0.2                                  0.2
Total          10.2                 4.2             14.4
Borrower: Peoples Republic of Bangladesh
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE), and Horticultural
Export Development Foundation (HORTEX)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):             2000      2001      2002      2003
Annual                1.3        1.7       1.5      0.5
Cumulative                1.3        3.0      4.5       5.0
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
For Guarantees:                                   [  Partial           [] Partial risk
credit
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (IUS$)
Final maturity
Amortization
profile
Financing available without guarantee?:             [     Yes            []    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 3 years  Expected effectiveness date: 11/30/99    Expected closing date: 03/31/2003



Page 3
A: Project Development Objective
1. Sector Background:
Agriculture dominates the economy of Bangladesh, generating about 1/3 of GDP, providing 60%
of employment and accounting for about half the value of export earnings. The country is among the
poorest of the world (per capita GDP about $ 350/year). Over half the households live in moderate or
extreme poverty, with a significant proportion of the remainder only marginally above the poverty line
and vulnerable to falling into poverty in case of unfavourable developments (illness, cyclones, floods,
erosion, or unfavourable price developments).
Faster agricultural growth and rural development are critical in Bangladesh, with more than 90
percent of the poor living in rural areas. While much has been achieved, particularly in moving
Bangladesh from chronic foodgrain shortages to rice self-sufficiency (in years of normal weather), this
progress creates new challenges. Rice occupies currently 75% of cropped land. Continued agricultural
growth faster than population requires, inter alia, farmers learning techniques for growing different crops
efficiently, and development of the marketing knowledge and infrastructure to enable Bangladesh to take
advantage of agricultural diversification opportunities. At the same time, efforts for intensification of rice
production must continue, to enable land to be released to other crops. The Agricultural Support Services
Project (ASSP-IDA Credit 2233-BD) for which IDA financing closed on June 30, 1998 (with British
DFID financing continuing to June 30, 1999) has fostered significant progress in improving extension
services. This includes improved targeting of extension to the needs of women and small, marginal and
landless farmers. A major breakthrough toward the end of ASSP was the Government's decision in July
1996 to adopt a New Agricultural Extension Policy (NAEP). NAEP emphasizes bottom-up participatory
appraisal of the farmer's extension needs and decentralized design of extension programs to reflect the
needs of the local farming community. It also includes strengthened partnerships withNGOs and other
government organizations (including local government and the extension programs in fisheries, livestock
and forestry). While NAEP has made a promising start, implementation is still fragile. Extension staff
need more training in participatory needs assessment and decentralized design. Techniques need to be
tested and refined before being expanded into a full-scale project. NGO cooperative programs need also
to be decentralized rather than coordinated from Dhaka as at present. Models of how best to work in
partnership with newly empowered local governments have to be tested.
The Horticultural Export Development Foundation (HORTEX) component, which was a major
disappointment through most of ASSP, has made very good progress since the current Managing Director
was appointed as General Manager in May 1997. HORTEX made arrangements with an NGO (BRAC)
for contract farming of fine french beans, identified interested buyers in Europe, selected appropriate
seeds and other agronomic techniques and inputs, developed and contracted for export-quality boxes,
trained BRAC staff in providing extension services and appropriate grading, and organized export
logistics. The resulting export in FY98 of 27 tons represents the first successful horticultural export to
the high quality segment of the European market. HORTEX also organized in FY98 about 5 tons of
exports of summer fruits and vegetables. In the case of these more traditional exports, HORTEX's role
has been to assist in improving production and handling practices, so as to increase value added by
entering non-ethnic markets, improving quality and reducing spoilage. Progress in FY99, however, was
below expectations, reflecting flood and storm damage and strikes impeding export. Export in FY99
included 36 tons of french and bobby beans and 6 tons of summer crops. HORTEX has also arranged
trial export shipments of baby pineapples from Chittagong Hill Tracts (CHT), which were well received.
If Bangladesh is to take advantage of opportunities for profitable new export ventures in horticultural
products, the type of initial technical and logistical assistance provided by Hortex appears necessary.



Page 4
However, further testing and development is needed on how best to provide the required support to
encourage horticultural export initiatives.
2. Project development objective (see Annex 1):
To achieve the ultimate goals of higher agricultural productivity and incomes through production
intensification and diversification, a learning and innovation loan (LIL) is proposed to test and refine
various agricultural technology transfer programs designed to foster more demand-driven and locally
responsive extension techniques. It is hoped that the lessons learned from the trials supported under the
LIL, if successful, will justify scaling up under a future project. In particular, the proposed LIL aims to:
(i) provide support through HORTEX to pioneering horticultural production and export activities, with
emphasis on contract farming though NGOs or private entrepreneurs; (ii) test and develop methods for
improving partnership programs between the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) and other
extension providers (NGOs, private sector, and other government departments) in developing and
conveying appropriate extension messages; and (iii) carry out small pilot and demonstration programs,
under the FAO-sponsored Special Program for Food Security (SPFS), of possible measures, linked to a
demand-driven extension service, for improving production and food security.
3. Key performance indicators (see Annex I):
Success of the HORTEX component would be measured by the export growth achieved, and
whether the prices received provide adequate profits to exporters and farmers to maintain their interest.
Success of the partnership programs would be measured by the success in introducing improved
technology, reaching the poor and female farmers, and surveys of farmer satisfaction with services
received. For the SPSF pilot programs, evaluations would be made of the technical, financial and
economic viability of the interventions as well as farmer satisfaction with the services.
Under ASSP DAE started to use knowledge, attitude and practices (KAP) sample surveys to
obtain information on total farmer contacts, success in reaching different types of farmers (size of
holdings, gender), interest of messages to recipients and farmers' intention to adopt new techniques being
introduced. These types of surveys would be continued and improved to measure specificallv the
effectiveness of the partnership programs in delivering extension messages. In addition, sample studies
would be undertaken through contracts with suitable research organizations or NGOs to determine the
benefits in production and income attributable to the extension messages.
DAE would use similar techniques to measure the effectiveness of the SPSF pilot trial and
demonstration programs. These would be supplemented by specific M&E activities carried out under the
SPSF programs. For the soil testing/fertility management subproject, data would be collected on the
number of samples analyzed for farmers on a paid basis, time taken for delivery of results, and the
accuracy of the results in cross-checked samples. Detailed cost accounts would be kept to pernit
financial analysis of the various systems used. Subject Matter specialists would record the number and
nature of farmer requests for follow up activities. After a year, a revisit of farmers receiving services
would be made to collect data, on a sample basis, on satisfaction of farmers with the services received,
resulting changes of practices and their effects on yields. For the crop yield forecasting/agrometeorology
sub project, field visits would be undertaken to verify the accuracy of the crop production forecasts.
Sample surveys would also be undertaken to determine farmer satisfaction with the weather related
advice received, resulting changes of farmer practices, and the effects on production and incomes. The
on-farm water management subproject includes an assessment of the technical, economic and financial
viability of the various interventions tested, as well as farmners' satisfaction with the program.



Page 5
HORTEX has been monitoring the profitability of production and export for the producers and
exporters it is assisting, and this will continue. HORTEX would also continue to monitor satisfaction of
importers with the products received.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17453-BD   Date of latest CAS discussion: March 31, 1998,
CAS Progress Reports (IDA/R 99-141) discussed July 20, 1999
The Project supports the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) and the Bangladesh people in
accelerating agricultural growth and rural development to address the needs of 80 percent of
Bangladesh's population and 93 percent of its poor who live in rural areas. The CAS specifically
identifies the following priority activities which would be supported by the project: (i) improved
dissemination of agricultural technology; (ii) decentralization to increase local involvement in
design/operation of programs; and (iii) promoting diversification to higher value commodities with good
external market prospects, including through the use of NGOs and contract farming models.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Reduction of rural poverty requires improvement in the rate of agricultural growth and rural
development. With the attainment of rice self-sufficiency (in normal years), agriculture, which has been
dominated by rice production, needs to diversify into products, including exports, with higher income
elasticities. This requires improved farm technology, both for intensification of food-grain production (to
release land for higher value crops) and to enable farmers to grow efficiently diversified crops for which
Bangladesh has comparative advantage. Fortunately Bangladesh appears to have comparative advantage
in a wide variety of crops, including fruits and vegetables with potentially high value added. However, it
has very limited experience in commercial production and marketing of many of the potentially attractive
crops. Taking advantage of these opportunities requires efforts to organize Bangladeshi small farmers to
produce new crops in sufficient quantities for cost-effective marketing, pioneering efforts to overcome
the bottlenecks to entering new fields, and improved information on marketing opportunities and
requirements.
There are, of course, many other sectoral issues not covered by the proposed project. These
include bottlenecks in rural finance, the need for further liberalization in fertilizer and seeds, the problems
of periodic natural disasters (severe inland flooding and cyclones), the desirability of improved rural
infrastructure and social services, the damage done by prior embankment projects to inland fisheries
production, the rapid rate of deforestation, and many more. While many of these issues reduce the rate of
potential agricultural growth and rural development, they are not binding constraints which would be
likely to thwart the type of activities proposed under this project.
Bangladesh agricultural has evolved significantly since the 1970's when the prior extension
system had been designed. At that time the challenge was to convey the basic messages of the green
revolution to predominantly subsistence farmers to improve productivity in rice and wheat. Staff with
relatively limited education and training could usefully convey fairly homogeneous messages designed in
Dhaka. A major breakthrough took place in July 1996 with the Government's decision to adopt a New
Agricultural Extension Policy (NAEP). The key features of NAEP include (i) a decentralized bottom-up
approach for assessing farmers needs and developing programs to meet location-specific issues (replacing
centrally-prepared pre-determined messages); and (ii) strengthened partnerships among DAE,NGOs, and
other government agencies (local government, and Ministries of Fisheries and Livestock and



Page 6
Environment and Forest) to provide effective extension advice. In January 1997, a strategy for the
implementation of NAEP was approved by the Government. The strategy calls for the establishment of a
policy committee and a number of committees at different administrative levels. A key element of the
new strategy is the devolution of responsibility for determining and planning extension programs to
newly-established Thana a Agricultural Extension Coordinating Committees (TAECCs) including local
representatives from DAE, NGOs, local govemment, and other government agencies.
A long-standing issue within the technology system has been the weakness of the National
Agricultural Research System (NARS). Progress under the Agricultural Research Management Project
(ARMP -IDA Credit 2815-BD), designed to increase the efficiency of NARS, has been slower than
expected. However, action plans have been agreed, following the mid-term review, on institutional
reforms to improve personnel, financial and research management. Implementation performance has
been improving in recently months and some work has started on these reforms. As an exception to the
problems of ARMP, the farming systems research component is doing well. This is the component of
greatest immediate relevance to the extension programs, since it is farming systems research staff who
work with DAE and NGO staff in developing appropriate extension systems to meet farmers' needs
identified under the new decentralized procedures.
While rice self-sufficiency has been achieved in years of normal weather, production is often
reduced by drought, floods, and other disturbances. Too often the production shortfall is not recognized
until it is too late to arrange for timely imports, which results in high prices and suffering for the poor.
Too often late imports arriving during the next harvest plus high production induced by the prior high
prices lead to surpluses and sharp price drops, reducing farmer incentives. An early warning system for
such production fluctuations is badly needed. Systems to provide timely information and practical advice
to farmers on actions to be taken to cope with weather variation also need to be developed to reduce such
weather induced production fluctuations.
While data are unreliable and inconclusive, there is reason for serious concern about possible
declines in soil fertility. Fertilizer use is frequently highly unbalanced. While recommended application
rates are available on a regional basis, there is little capacity to advise farmers based on testing of soil
conditions in farmers' fields. Cost-effective ways of measuring soil fertility are needed to provide a basis
for appropriate advice on soil management and agronomic practices.
Water management for irrigation or drainage and flood control is a year-round undertaking for
the Bangladeshi farmer, as dependent on the season, he has either too much or too little water. The
irrigated area has expanded from 1.5 million ha in 1982 to 3.7 million ha in 1996, primarily through
expansion of minor irrigation. However, the total area irrigated averages only about 57% of capacity of
the installed equipment. Some of this is a reflection of small farm sizes and the social difficulties in
cooperation. Nevertheless, it is believed that improved on-farm water management could have a
significant effect on increasing water utilization. Similarly, improved on-farm drainage could reduce
water logging in periods of excess water, and help improve yields.
a Subdistrict, the second smallest administrative unit of local government.



Page 7
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector Issues
The proposed project would address the following sectoral issues:
(i) Need for improved dissemination of agricultural technology;
(ii) Desirability of decentralization to increase local involvement in design/operation of programs;
(iii) The desirability and difficulty of promoting diversification to high value commodities with good
external market prospects; and
(iv) Importance of measures to foster improvements in on-farm water management, soil fertility
management, and crop yield forecasting.
Strategic choices
a)    The choice of a LIL rather than a standard project: The progress achieved in the last two years
of ASSP implementation in developing a participatory approach to extension represents a quantum leap
forward in extension delivery in which the real needs of farmers assume precedence over the
preconceptions of extensionists, researchers and policy makers. However, this approach also requires a
quantum leap in thinking by extension workers, researchers and administrators, which must be developed
and strengthened before the new methods can be successful. Many of the activities to be fostered under
the proposed LIL remain experimental. More testing is needed to see how they would work best and to
adjust based on experience under pilot efforts. In particular, how HORTEX would work best, how to
adjust extension to the new, not yet fully defined, devolution of increased responsibility to local
government, and how best to foster DAE/NGO partnerships in a decentralized setting are all issues where
additional trials and experimentation are needed before full-scale implementation. Prediction of benefits
and economic analysis would be difficult at this stage. Nevertheless, there are important, but still fragile,
innovations in progress that need support, if they are to be further developed.
b)     The design of the HORTEX component: The original project design under ASSP provided for
HORTEX direct investment in packing and storage plants and provision of short-term credit for
processing and marketing. Instead, it is currently envisaged that HORTEX would work as a facilitating
organization and would concentrate on provision of catalytic technical services, combined with limited
investment in shared services (refrigerated vehicles and perhaps improvements in available cold-storage
facilities at the airport) which may have to operate initially at a loss until adequate volume is developed.
There would not be direct provision of credit. This design takes account of the success achieved since
FY97/98 through identifying importers, provision of training (toNGOs and private entrepreneurs), initial
provision of inputs (boxes and seeds) and organization of logistical services. In future years, inputs, after
the first successful year of demonstrating a new product in an area, would be supplied to contract
farmers/entrepreneur at cost plus a small margin, while shared services would be supplied at a rate that
would cover costs once reasonable capacity utilization rates have been achieved.
c)    IDA participation in component for strengthening NAEP capacity. While DFID is providing the
majority of funds for this component, there are advantages to IDA's continued involvement. The original
assistance to DAE in the development of NAEP was a DFID/IDA partnership. In addition, the larger
project, which it is hoped will eventuate from the current innovation and testing and capacity building, is
also expected to require funds exceeding what DFID is likely to be able to provide on its own. The



Page 8
combined experience of both DFID and IDA at this juncture during LIL implementation would lead to
better assessment of future interventions.
d)     Cooperative Programs with FAO's Special Program for Food Security. Based upon a 1997
Memorandum of Understanding between the World Bank President and the FAO Director-General, GOB
requested participation in pilot phase activities underFAO's Special Program for Food Security (SPFS)
in Low-Income Food Deficit Countries. GOB requested financing under this program for small scale
pilot projects as well as the South-South Cooperation Program for technical assistance from staff with
relevant experience from other developing countries. In GOB/IDA/FAO discussions, this proposed
operation was identified as an appropriate vehicle for IDA financing of such small pilot activities. Key
issues identified for such pilot activities were the need for improved on-farm water management, soil
fertility management, and use of weather information for crop yield forecasting and advice to farmers on
coping with weather variations.



Page 9
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                     Category           Cost Incl.    % of        IDA          % of
Contingenc   Total  financing           IDA
ies (US$M)               (US$M)   financing
I. HORTEX provision of            Institution                     2.7      19          2.4         48
support to pioneering             building, physical
horticultural production and    investments
export activities
II. Strengthening                 Grants for joint               9g9b      69          1.7         34
implementation of NAEP            DAE/
NGO projects,
Institution building
a) Joint DAE/NGO/local
government extension
activities
b) Strengthening capacity
for monitoring &
evaluation (M&E) of
extension effectiveness.
III. Small-scale pilot trial      Institution building            1.8b     12          0.9         18
and demonstration programs
a) Improved on-farm water
management
b) Soil fertility management
c) Crop yield
forecasting/weather
advice to farmers
Total                                                            14.4b    100          5.0        100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project.
a) Increased capacity of HORTEX Foundation in promoting horticultural production and exports and
increased capacity of HORTEX clients (NGOs, private sector exporters, farmers) in this field;
b  About US$ 6.9 million equivalent for component II above is being financed by a DFID grant, about US$ 0.5 million
equivalent for Part lIla would be financed by FAO grants, about US$ 1.8 million would be provided by GOB, and about US$
0.2 million would be provided by beneficiaries and participating NGOs. In addition, some technician services are expected
to be financed by China, under the FAO-sponsored South-South Cooperation Program. In parallel, an extension capacity
building program is being financed by a grant of about US$ 8.5 million from DFID and about USS 5.5 million from GOB.



Page 10
b) Strengthened partnerships among DAE, NGOs, and other government agencies in providing
extension services;
c) Increased devolution of responsibility to local government agencies;
d) Increased capacity of DAE in monitoring/evaluation;
e) Testing possible approaches for dealing with issues of on-farm water management, soil nutrition
management and crop yield forecasting/weather advice to farmers.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits
*  Increased agricultural production and farmers' income;
*  Increased Horticultural exports and understanding by the private sector and NGOs of export
requirements;
* Improved understanding of possible mechanisms for improved DAE/NGO/local government/private
sector partnerships in extension; and
*  Improved understanding of possible techniques for dealing with issues of on-farm water
management, soil fertility management, crop yield forecasting, and advising farmers on coping with
weather variation.
Target Population
Evaluation studies undertaken in connection with ASSP indicate that about 65% to 70% of
farmers attending field days and farmer training programs sponsored by DAE have been in the category
of marginal or small farmers (less than 2.5 acres) and that direct contact between DAE and women clients
"has increased dramatically". The partnership programs between DAE and NGOs would reflect the
NGO's focus on landless share croppers, small and marginal farmers and female farmers.
The HORTEX component would not be specifically targeted, but the major achievements to date
have been through working with an NGO organizing contract farming arrangements with small farmers.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
MOA, through the Secretary, would have overall responsibility for project implementation. A
Project Steering Committee, chaired by Secretary of Agriculture and including the Director General of
DAE, Joint Secretary MOA, Managing Director HORTEX, the DAE Project Director; the Sub-project
Coordinators and representatives of the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance, the
Planning Commission and the Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division (IMED) of the
Ministry of Planning would meet periodically to monitor implementation performance and develop
solutions to issues or bottlenecks impeding progress. HORTEX Foundation, an autonomous non-profit
organization registered under the Companies Act, would manage the horticultural production and export
component. Other components would be managed by DAE. Technical assistance for the partnership and
extension monitoring and evaluation components, would be provided by a DFID financed Technical
Assistance (TA) team. FAO, under SPFS, would provide financial support for the pilot program for
improved on-farm water management and, under trust fund agreements financed by the IDA Credit,
would assist in the coordination and provide technical and logistical support services for the other two
small-scale pilot programs. DAE would appoint a coordinator for each of the SPFS programs. An



Page 11
Implementation Committee would bring together the representatives of government and non-
governmental organizations participating in the soil fertility management subproject.
In May 1997, MOA established a DAE Management Committee with responsibility for strategic
planning, resource allocation, performance monitoring and managing the institutional change process.
This committee would function as a monitoring committee for the project within DAE. MOA has
designated an Additional Director, DAE to serve as a Project Director for the DAE components.
Agricultural technical committees at national and district levels, including representatives of farming
systems research units, would continue to provide research/extension linkages, and assist in preparing
recommendations for dealing with farmer problems identified at the thana level. Also in 1997, an
Extension Policy Implementation Coordinating Committee (EPICC) was established at the national level
and District Extension Programming Committees (DEPCs) in each district with membership fromNGOs,
DAE, other government agencies involved in extension and the private sector. At the grass roots level, a
key role will be played by the TAECCs in coordinating local level initiatives and DAE/NGO/other
agency extension partnerships. The project would support grants of about US$ 1,500 equivalent per year
for each thana for such joint activities. In addition, on a pilot basis in twelve districts (out of 64), District
Partnership Funds would be provided to finance grants for partnership proposals submitted by TAECCs
or groups of TAECCs. The DEPCs in these districts would evaluate such partnership proposals and
recommend those suitable for financing to EPICC. After initial experience using these procedures,
further delegation of authority to the DEPCs would be considered. A national partnership fund, under the
control of EPICC would enable experienced NGOs to provide services such as, for example, training in
participatory techniques to staff of smaller NGOs and DAE staff, to facilitate NGO/government
agency/private sector cooperative extension activities.  While the relative roles within the above
committees may change during the project period, with the expected initiation of elected local
government at thana and district levels, the basic structure described above is not expected to change.
The Joint Secretary for Extension of MOA would have day to day responsibility for monitoring the
project and maintaining links between MOA and EPICC.
The component for strengthening DAE's monitoring and evaluation (M&E) capacity would be
implemented by DAE's Planning and Evaluation Wing, with technical assistance from the consultants
financed by DFID. This component would build on improved M&E practices already introduced under
ASSP, but would provide assistance in the design and installation of improved systems and training of
staff in their operation and of DAE management and district level staff in using the systems for improved
planning and monitoring and evaluation of effectiveness of decentralized programs. In addition to studies
by DAE's own staff, evaluation studies would be contracted out to suitable research organizations or
NGOs.
The HORTEX Foundation started functioning in June 1996, but little was accomplished until the
current Managing Director was appointed as general Manager in May 1997. Until 1999 it had a
Governing Body of seven members, two of whom were from government, one from the Bangladesh
Bank, three from the private sector and one from the NGOs. The Secretary MOA is ex-officio Chairman
of the Foundation, while the Managing Director (revised title of the former General Manager) acts as
Member Secretary. The Governing Body has recently been enlarged to eleven members, with one
additional representative from DAE, two from the private sector and an additional NGO.
The financial management systems of DAE and HORETEX are not currently adequate to
produce Project Management Reports. Accordingly, a time bound action plan to strengthen their
institutional capacity has been drawn up and agreed with GOB. This was confirmed at negotiations.



Page 12
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The main alternatives considered were: (i) use of a traditional sector investment loan instead of a
LIL; and (ii) retaining the initial, somewhat more ambitious, design for the HORTEX component, as
originally described in the Staff Appraisal Report for ASSP. In addition, this project was selected as an
appropriate vehicle for inclusion of IDA/FAO/GOB cooperative activities under SPFS. The reasons for
the project design decisions on these issues are described in para B3.



Page 13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                  Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)    Objective(DO)
Bank-financed
1. Improved agricultural     Extension & Research II           NA               NA
extension services and    (Credit 1215-BD, approved
applied research          1982)
2. Strengthening agricultural    Agricultural Research II      NA               NA
research system           (Credit 1455-BD, approved
1984)
3. Improved agricultural     Agricultural Support Services      S                S
extension and support to  Project-ASSP (Credit 2233-
introduction of high value    BD, approved 1991, closing
export crops              date June 30, 1998)
4. Strengthening agricultural    Agricultural Research          U                U
research system           Management Project (Credit
2815-BD, 1996) - ongoing
Other development agencies
Horticultural Development
IJNDP                   Hort. Research & Dev. (closed
1997)
FAO                     Vegetable Seeds (closed 1999)
ADB                     Hort. Dev. (closing 1999)
USAID                   Agrobased Industries & Tech.
(closing 2000)
Technology Transfer
USAID                   Agric. Technology Transfer
(closing 2000)
FAO                     Support Services in Irrigated
Agric. (closed 1999)
Soil Nutrition
DANIDA                  Soil Testing & Management
(closing 2000)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)



Page 14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Project design reflects the following lessons from projects to improve technology transfer
systems in Bangladesh and elsewhere:
a) As farming systems become more complex and sophisticated, agricultural extension systems rieed to
become more decentralized to reflect location-specific issues identified in farmers needs assessmnents.
b) The synergy between MOA technical skills and NGO skills in organizing groups of farmers can be
mutually beneficial, particularly in reaching landless sharecroppers, marginal and small farmers and
female farmers.
c) Cooperation between a technical agency with access to international experience and NGOs which
have gained the trust of small farmers can be useful in introducing new higher-value crop, in a
country dominated by small farmers.
d) In developing solutions to farmer problems, it is useful to experiment on a small-scale, with full
farmer participation in defining needs and designing appropriate solutions within farmer financial
capacity.
The project design also supports continuation of progress under ASSP in implementing the
following lessons:
a) Government commitment as demonstrated by an approved national extension policy and a plan for its
implementation is crucial for success of extension innovation.
b) Third party farmers' satisfaction surveys are very useful to evaluate effectiveness of extension
programs.
c) The shifts in design of the HORTEX component during the last years of ASSP, emphasizing
provision of catalytic technical services and encouraging partnerships with NGOs, appear to have
been successful.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
GOB creation of the task force which developed NAEP, formal approval of NAEP by the
Ministry of Agriculture, and establishment of the DAE Management Committee, EPICC,DEPCs and the
TAECCs are all indications of Government commitment to the NAEP reforms, including the partnership
programs. Actions to select a new and very effective General Manager for HORTEX, to prepare a 'hree
year plan, and recent action to add additional private sector representatives to the Governing Body are
indications of commitment to the concept of HORTEX. With regard to the SPFS pilot schemes,
unsolicited letters were written by MOA to the Bank requesting participation in the program. The
Government has approved project proforma and appointed a DAE Project Director who has a good record
in managing implementation of other projects.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project.
IDA (and DFID) provided support to GOB in developing the concepts of NAEP. IDA was also
involved in the design of the original HORTEX proposal, and in guiding the adjustments in the concepts
following the mid-tern review of ASSP. Continuation of support, taking account of the understandings
and relationships built, would be useful in the capacity building, and testing and adjustment proposed
under this project. Providing support to the SPFS is in line with overall understandings between the Bank



Page 15
and FAO, and has been specifically requested by GOB. In all these cases, IDA involvement would add
the benefits of international expertise and experience from other countries with similar programs, and
would help ensure that the programs developed for scaling up, based on experience under the project,
would be suitable for consideration for IDA financing.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
No economic analysis is required as it would be a LIL operation and the project would be
supporting the implementation of pilot activities. The project, nevertheless, would be testing strategies
with positive rates of return. The indicative rate of return for investment in extension services under the
ASSP, calculated by the ICR mission, was about 25%. While this result is only indicative, it points to the
opportunities for high returns through improved transmission of technical information. With regard to
the HORTEX component, economic analysis, in connection with preparation of a Bangladesh Rural
Development Strategy, shows that Bangladesh has comparative advantage in producing a wide range of
relatively high value horticultural crops. However, considerable assistance in organizing participating
farmers, training, and logistical support is required to overcome the initial barriers to entry.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$         million; FRR=       %
Fiscal impact:
The fiscal impact of the tests and trials under this project will be negligible. In connection with
ASSP, DAE Management Committee has prepared a staffing plan recommending reductions in
authorised positions by 2,240 (from 24,256 to 22,016). Not included in the above totals is the reduction
in the number of Block Supervisors during the project period from the authorised 12,420 positions to
about 10,800 at present. Also under ASSP, GOB has progressively taken over financing of the recurrent
operational costs of the extension program (increasing from 15% in 1992 to 100% in FY99.) The
Government, in its Project Concept Paper in connection with the proposed project, has indicated its
intention to continue to fund the operational costs of DAE at appropriate levels. The DAE/NGO
partnership programs, if successful, may point to ways of further reducing costs while maintaining and
improving service levels, particularly to marginal and poor farmers and women.
HORTEX Foundation
During the first season of successful production and export of french beans (1997/98), farmers
net profit is estimated at 78,000 Tk/hectare as compared to a traditional crop (potatoes for example) with
a net profit of 37,000 Tk/hectare. While during the first season HORTEX bore the costs of seeds,
fertilizer and cartons, as demonstration costs, calculations indicate that the exports were sufficiently
profitable to have covered all costs, including BRAC overhead and extension costs, other than
HORTEX's costs in providing technical assistance. For future seasons, BRAC has agreed to cover input
costs plus a service charge for HORTEX services. Calculations for additional crops expected to be
promoted during the project period (chili peppers, okra, bitter gourd, bobby beans, yard long beans, and
baby pineapple) indicate prospects for profitable export even if the importers' selling price should go
down by 15% below current expectations.
While HORTEX's plan projections indicate reaching a break-even point at the end of eight years,
the rate of increase of production and export at this point is a matter of speculation. The future path of
HORTEX could include establishment of a recognized brand name and reputation for Bangladeshi



Page 16
products leading to long-run self-financing capacity. However, if the effect of its operations is instead to
train a number of NGOs and private entrepreneurs to be able to export profitably without HORTEX
services, and creating models that other entreprenurs will follow, this exercise would still be worthwhile,
even in the absence of need for continuation of HORTEX services.
3. Technical:
While the extension system being promoted under the NAEP, the programs being tested under
the small-scale pilot trials, and the promotion activities of HORTEX reflect the experience of best
practice elsewhere, the objective of this project is to test and adjust to fit the local environment, while
strengthening implementation capacity. The capacity of NGOs in Bangladesh is greater than in many
countries and their microcredit operations have been a model for other countries to follow. Similarly, the
results of the extension partnership programs and NGO horticultural production and export activities may
provide models useful for other countries' consideration. Forecasting export market needs is difficult and
HORTEX would provide Bangladesh the opportunity to start learning the intricacies of entry and
continued sustainability.
4. Institutional:
The DAE management committee has successfully managed the introduction of NAEP and the
development to date of national and local partnership programs. The good working relationships
established with the DFID-financed Technical Assistance Team have been useful in this process. W-hat is
new is district and thana level implementation. The arrangements for handling award and administration
of grants as specified in DAE's Project Implementation Plan were agreed at negotiations. The initial draft
Guidelines for Award and Administration of Grants will be prepared by the Partnership Unit of DAE by
about October 31, 1999. The draft Guidelines would be reviewed by DFID and IDA and, if found
acceptable would be submitted to EPICC for approval. Any modifications of the Guidelines would have
to be acceptable to DFID and IDA. However, this is intended to be an iterative, learning-by-doing
process, with annual reviews of the effectiveness of the policies and procedures and subsequent revisions
in the Guidelines based upon lessons learned. These revisions would also be subject to review and
approval of DFID, IDA and EPICC. FAO would provide technical assistance and guidance to the three
small-scale pilot trial and demonstration programs, as part of its SPSF program. After a disappointing
start, HORTEX has demonstrated that, with capable management, it can promote new export
opportunities successfully. The two expatriate consultants and two national consultants who assisted
HORTEX during its first two years of successful operations are expected to continue. Private sector
entrepreneurs would benefit from their association with HORTEX and this will undoubtedly improve
Bangladesh's reputation as a timely supplier of high quality produce.
5. Social.
The essence of the NAEP is the introduction of participatory Farmer Information Needs
Assessments (FINAs) as a basis for planning extension programs, combined with partnerships with
NGOs focused on small and marginal farmers and women. An independent evaluation of ASSP noted
that extension events are now targeted to the different categories of farmers and that the number of direct
contacts with small and marginal farmers and female farmers have increased. For example, 65% to 70%
of farmers attending DAE field days and farmer training programs are now in the category of small
farrners (less than 2.5 acres). The parallel DFID-assisted extension capacity building program will
include training to improve the ability of grass roots extension workers to conduct participatory needs
assessments and to design appropriate programs to reach all categories of farmers. It will also include



Page 17
technical assistance in strengthening and mainstreaming social/poverty analysis within DAE. The pilot
decentralized partnerships with NGOs would reflect the NGO's focus on landless share croppers, small
and marginal farmers and female farmers. While the HORTEX component is not specifically targeted,
the major achievements to date have been working with an NGO organizing contract farming
arrangements with small farners. The program for assisting production/export of baby pineapples from
CHT would provide income opportunities for the tribal peoples in areas of production.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category   [ ] A   [J B    [X] C
DAE's portfolio of extension messages and training seeks to encourage farmners to reduce use of
pesticides through integrated pest management when applicable and possible, to improve and rationalize
on-farm water management through better drainage and more efficient irrigation practices, to promote
sustainable soil fertility management through a more balanced use of inorganic fertilizers, and to return
more organic matter to the soil. The parallel DFID-assisted extension capacity building program would
improve on the delivery of these messages. In particular it would assist in developing procedural
mechanisms, responsibilities, and skills to ensure that impact assessment processes and environmental
management procedures are fully integrated into DAE operations. The NGO partnerships financed under
the LIL would strengthen the environmental orientation of extension messages. Two of the SPSF pilot
programs would test improved methods of soil nutrition management and on-farmn water management.
With regard to the HORTEX component, the three year Business Plan recognizes that supermarkets in
UK and other European countries give better prices for "environmentally friendly" vegetables, meeting
standards for food safety and ethical production. The Business Plan also suggests building the necessary
structure which could support fully organic horticultural production in the future. The program for
assisting production/export of baby pineapples from CHT would support appropriate terraced production
techniques for hill-side farming.
7. Participatory approach [key stake holders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
As noted above, the essence of NAEP is to build beneficiary participation into the design of
extension programs, and to create structures at the local, district and national levels for coordination and
partnership in extension activities among NGOs, DAE, local govemment and other government
organizations. The proposed project builds on the initial still fragile efforts in these directions and is
designed to strengthen capacity for bottom-up participatory planning. The composition of the Governing
Body of HORTEX builds in participatory planning among Government representatives, the private sector
and NGOs.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The purpose of the LIL is to test and refine various innovative programs, with sustainability
dependent upon their success.  Sustainability of the extension reform  aspects of the project is
strengthened by formal MOA approval of the New Agricultural Extension Policy in 1996, and an agreed
implementation strategy in 1997, combined with good farmer support at the grass roots level. However,
while the partnership programs have had initial success, techniques for adopting them to a more
decentralized extension system need to be developed and tested. GOB willingness to finance 50% of the
thana level grant programs is a good indicator of potential sustainability. If the partnership programs
show initial success, donor support would be expected to be needed initially to finance their expansion.



Page 18
However, over the longer run, such partnerships would be expected to reduce numbers of extension staff
needed, allowing the Govemment to take over financing. Despite the initial success of HORTEX, its
sustainability as an institution is not secure. It is likely that a further period of donor support beyond the
current project would be required. Thereafter, if HORTEX has succeeded in developing a brand name
and a reputation that is valued by Bangladeshi exporters, it should be able to become self-financing as
export volumes expand. Alternatively, if HORTEX succeeds in teaching and modeling skills required for
Bangladeshi private firms and NGOs to produce and export horticultural products successfully without
continued HORTEX services, HORTEX will have accomplished its mission. The tbree small-scale pilot
trials are intended to be experiments with lessons leamed to be incorporated as part of regular DAE or
MOA operations, combined hopefully with NGO and/or private sector interest in commercially run soil
testing facilities.



Page 19
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Importers prices for horticultural products  S     Ability to shift crop emphasis. Unlikely to
fall to point of inadequate profitability          occur for all crops
Weather induced loss of crops or delayed   S       NGO willingness to help balance greater
harvesting                                         profits in good years with losses in bad
years. (In longer run, possibilities of
canning being investigated to deal with late
harvests.)
Bangladesh producers unable to meet        M       TA provided to HORTEX. Good experience
export quality standards                           since 1997
Techniques provided under pilot projects do  M     This is reason for trial on a pilot basis
not prove effective
Annex 1, cell "from Components to
Outputs",
Strains develop in Government NGO          S       Experience under ASSP has helped build
relationships impeding eftective                   initial confidence. NAEP policy statement
cooperation                                        provides political support.
Adjustments to greater role of elected local  M    NAEP emphasis on decentralization and
government cause difficulties                      initial progress of TAECC's should help
ease adjustments.
Trained M&E staff do not stay              S       Alternative of contracting out can be
explored if necessary
Assistance provided by HORTEX              M       TA provided to HORTEX. Good experience
inadequate to overcome entry barriers              since 1997
Political interference in HORTEX operation  M      Majority of private sector and NGO
or management                                      representatives on Governing Body should
help
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 20
3. Possible Controversial Aspects.
The peace settlement in the CHT area is an important step forward. The proposed HORTEX
program to promote exports of baby pineapples would facilitate increasing incomes in the area. In accord
with GOB policy to associate the tribal population in decision making, any decisions on expansion of
programs beyond the current trial shipment level of activity would be taken in consultation with the
respective councils in the relevant areas of CHT. The project activities to improve incomes in the CHT
area are expected to support the peace process.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions.
a) Government has made a deposit of Tk 5 million (slightly more than US$ 100,000 equivalent) into
revolving fund for HORTEX;
b) Signature and effectiveness of HORTEX grant agreement; and
c) Effectiveness of cofinancing grant agreements between GOB and DFID and between GOB and FAO.
2. Condition of Disbursement.
Disbursement for the pilot small scale trial and demonstration programs would occur only after
signature of a trust fund agreement between GOB and FAO, acceptable to IDA, outlining the
responsibilities for implementation, and the appointment of a Sub-project Coordinator for the component
concerned.
3. Other Covenants:
a) Government to enter into a grant agreement with HORTEX passing on the credit funds allocated to
the HORTEX component and providing HORTEX as a grant such funds as required to finance t:axes
and duties, 30% of costs of equipment purchased off the shelf, 10% of civil works expenditures, and
TK 5 million for a revolving fund to cover the period between expenditure and receipt of
reimbursement from the credit;
b) GOB to prepare Mid-term Review by March 31, 2001;
c) HORTEX grant agreement shall require HORTEX to charge for provision of inputs, after the first
successful year of demonstrating a new product in an area, the full cost of the inputs plus a service
charge, and to charge for logistical services (such as provision of refrigerated transport facilities)
amounts which would be sufficient to cover operational costs and amortized capital costs assuming
80% use of capacity;
d) Any HORTEX program, beyond current trial shipments, to support contracts for export of products
from the CHT would, in accord with GOB policies for participation of the tribal population in
decision making, be taken in consultation with the respective councils in the relevant areas; and
e) the policies and procedures for implementing the Extension Partnership Program grants shall be
acceptable to IDA.  GOB would review their effectiveness annually and make appropriate
adjustments, in consultation with IDA.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.



Page 21
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:   The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
[signature]
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Robert Epworth/Henry P. Gassner
[signature]
Sector Manager/Director: Ridwan Ali
[signature]
Country Manager/Director: Frederick Thomas Temple



Page 22



Page 23
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Bangladesh: Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project
Narrative Summary   Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS                                                    (Goal to Bank Mission)
Goal:                 Increase in agricultural    Production statistics (but Rural growth essential
Accelerated agricultural  production           data unreliable)       to alleviate poverty
growth
Increase in agricultural    Export data
exports
Project Development                                                   (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
To test and refine     1. Expansion of         1. Export data         *  Improved extension
improved agricultural     horticultural exports                          effectiveness in
technology transfer                                                      transmitting
programs, to provide                                                     technical knowledge
relevant advice to     2. Increased ability of    2. Evaluations of      will assist farmers in
farmers (with special     DAE and NGOs to         programs               increasing
emphasis on small &       work effectively        performance in         production
female farmers) and to   together                 (a) introducing
increase horticultural                            improved            *  Other constraints
exports, as a basis for                           technology, and         (policy &
scaling up to a larger                            (b) reaching poor      institutional) do not
project.                                          and female farmers.    worsen and are not
binding constraints
3. Improved             3. Progress reports       to imnproved
understanding of                               agricultural
appropriate techniques                         production
in pilot programs
Bangladesh has
4. Improved DAE         4. Progress reports and   comparative
monitoring &            M&E reports            advantage in several
evaluation (M&E)        produced               horticultural crops,
systems                                        and assistance in
overcoming initial
barriers to entry can
be effective.



Page 24
Narrative Summary    Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Outputs:                                                                  (Outputs to Objective)
1. Increased           1. Hortex facilitates     1. Records of export     1.
Horticultural          exports of say:           performance and         *  Importers prices do
Exports             280 tons of french beans     adequacy of profits to     not fall to point of
50 tons of bobby beans       producers and              inadequate
90 tons of chili             exporters, monitoring      profitability
45 tons of okra              satisfaction of        *    Bangladesh
25 tons of bitter gourd     importers with              producers able to
25 tons of yard long beans   products received          meet export quality
20 tons of baby pineapple                              requirements
*    Limit.ed weather-
induced loss of
crops or delayed
harvesting.
2. Increased ability of  2. Quality partnership  2. Progress reports and   2. NGO/DAE
DAE and NGOs to        programs in 12 pilot      periodic quality         partnerships,
work together          districts and at thana    evaluations, including   matching technical
effectively            level                     farmer satisfaction      knowledge with
with services and        farmer organization
success in reaching      skills, can increase
target groups and        extension
introducing improved     effectiveness
technology
3. Improved            3. Pilot projects carried    3. M&E of pilot project  3. Practical techniques
understanding of       out and at least some     results, including (i)    available for
appropriate            techniques found          farmer satisfaction      improved on-farm
techniques in 3 pilot  effective                 surveys; (ii) success    water management
programs                                         in introduction of        soil fertility
improved production      management, and
methods, and             crop
evaluation of effects    forecasting/weather
on farmers' incomes;     advice to farmers
(iii) costs and
accuracy of soil tests;
and (iv)accuracy of
crop forecasts
4. Improved DAE        4. Systems developed &   4. Progress reports and   4. MOA can attract and
M&E systems            operating and staff       evaluation of outputs    retain appropriate
trained                                           trained M&E staff



Page 25
NarTative Summary    Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and     Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
(Components to
Project               Inputs: (budget for each    Progress Reports,  Outputs)
Components/Sub-       component) (US$ M)      Disbursement Reports
components: (see                              Supervision Reports of
Annex 2 for project                           IDA, DFID & FAO,
description)                                  and Hortex receipt
records indicating
1. HORTEX provision             2.7           realization of increased  1. Assistance in
of support to                              service charges and       identifying export
pioneering                                 other income from         opportunities,
horticultural                              beneficiaries            training, and
production and                                                       organizing logistics
export activities                                                    can overcome entry
barriers
2. Strengthening DAE            9.9                                  2.
capacity in                                                         *  Continued &
implementation of                                                     improved
NAEP                                                                  willingness of
DAE & NGO staff
*  Joint                                                                 to work together
DAE/NGO/local                                                       *  Grant evaluation
government                                                            mechanism works
extension activities                                                  adequately
*  Improved M&E                                                        *  Trained M&E
capacity                                                              staff remain in post
3. Small-scale pilot            1.8                                  3. At least some of
programs                                                             techniques tested in
pilot programs prove
*  Improved on-farm                                                    to be effective and
water management                                                     economically
*  Soil nutrition                                                       sustainable
management
*  Crop yield
forecasting/weather
advice to farmers



Page 26
Annex 2
Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project (ASIRP)
Project Description
Project Component 1 - Provision of support through HORTEX to pioneering horticultural production
and export activities. (USS 2.7 million equivalent, IDA US$ 2.4 million equivalent, GOB 1JSS 0.2
mllion equivalent, beneficiaries US$0.1 million equivalent).
ASIRP would support HORTEX's program  for providing catalytic technical services and
logistical support to encourage development of horticultural exports.  In accord with its recently
prepared plan, HORTEX will be a facilitating organization, not commercially involved in production
and export. It will identify market opportunities and potential importers, and provide training and
assistance in production, grading. packaging, quality control and export logistics.  It will provide
logistical services (such as refrigerated transport) that may better be done on a shared basis in tIle early
days of a new venture. It will assist in marketing by promoting the HORTEX logo as a symbol of
product quality. it has also started to facilitate contacts by overseas interests expioz-ing poterltal joint
venture investments. HORTEX will work with private entrepreneurs, NGOs and private sector/NGO
alliances. Its initial success has been working with an NGO (BRAC) which organized production by
small farmers on a contract farming basis.
HORTEX will (at teast by the second year of an activity) collect fees for its technical services,
provide inputs at cost plus a service charge, and charge for shared logistical serviices at a rite that
would cover costs once reasonable capacity utilization rates have been achieved. These fees and
charges would over time finance an increasing share of HORTEX's costs of operations.
HORTEX is a foundation established under the commercial code. Until 1999 it had a
Governing Body of seven members, two of whom are from Government, one from BangladesiL Bank,
three from the private sector and one from the NGOs. The Secretary. MOA, is ex-officio Chairman of
the Foundation's Governing Body, while the Managing Director (revised title of the former General
Manager) acts as Member Secretary. The Governing Body has recently added four more members, one
from DAE, two from the private sector and one more from the NGOs.d
In HORTEX's first season of successful operation in FY98, HORTEX made arrangemernts with
BRAC for contract fanrning of french beans, identified interested buyers in Europe, selected appropriate
seeds, developed and contracted for export-quality boxes, trained BRAC staff in providing extension
and appropriate grading, and organized export logistics. The resulting export of 27 tons represents the
first successful horticultural export to the high quality segment of the European vegetable market.
While during the first season HORTlEX bore the costs of seeds, fertilizer and cartons as demonstration
costs, calculations indicate that the exports were sufficiently profitable to have covered al. costs,
including BRAC overhead and extension costs, other than HORTEX costs in providing technical
assistance. HORTEX during its first season also exported 5 tons of summer vegetables. Progress in
FY99, however, was below expectations, reflecting flood and storm damage and strikes impeding
exports. FY99 exports included 36 tons of french and bobby beans and 3 tons of summer crops.
d Current membership includes Secretary MOA, and representatives of DAE, Export Promotion Bureau, Bangladesh Bank, Federation
of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Bangladesh Fruits, Vegetables, and Allied Products Association, a private
agro-industry entrepreneur, the Agroprocessing Industries Association, the Flower Growers and Exporters Association and two
NGOs.



Page 27
HORTEX also arranged trial export shipments of baby pineapples, which were well received. If
Bangladesh is to take advantage of opportunities for profitable new export ventures in horticultural
production, the type of initial technical and logistical assistance provided by HORTEX appears
necessary. Later HORTEX will concentrate more on quality monitoring and promotion of Bangladeshi
horticultural products.
Based upon analyses of market opportunities and domestic production possibilities and
constraints, HORTEX has identified products to be promoted during the project period (chili peppers,
okra, bitter gourd, yard long beans and baby pineapple). These products appear to have potential for
profitable production and export, even if importers purchase price should go down by 15% below
current expectations. In addition, HORTEX will organize trial shipments of other products and to other
markets (Singapore, the Middle East). While the HORTEX business plan provides a good basis for
initial operations, flexibility would be maintained to adjust for market developments and interest
expressed by importers in particular products where Bangladesh appears to have potential for profitable
production and export.
The proposed products to be promoted include both new export commodities (french beans,
baby pineapples) and traditionally exported "Asian vegetables" (such as okra, chilies, bitter gourd and
yard long beans). With regard to the latter category, traditional exporters have established links serving
ethnic markets in Europe. Quality is generally poor, packaging generally does not conform to the
standards of international trade, shelf life is limited and prices obtained are low. The market for quality
"Asian vegetables" is increasing rapidly and recently some of the major supermarket chains in Europe
have started to carry these items. The role of HORTEX for these commodities is to facilitate entry into
non-traditional markets and to improve value received even in traditional ethnic markets through
assistance in introducing proper production practices, post-harvest handling and improved packaging to
improve quality and reduce spoilage.
While HORTEX's plan projections indicate reaching a break-even point at the end of eight
years, the rate of increase of production and export at this point is a matter of speculation. The future
path of HORTEX could include establishment of a recognized trademark and reputation for
Bangladeshi products leading to long-run profitability. However, if the effect of its operations is
instead to train a number of NGOs and private entrepreneurs to be able to export profitably without
HORTEX services, this exercise would still be worth while, even in the absence of a need for continued
HORTEX services.
The estimated requirements for the above services during the project period would include:
US$ 0.1 millionfor civil works (improvements in cold storage facilities and office facilities,
and packing sheds);
US$ 0.3 millionequipment (refrigerated trucks and containers, harvesting trays, and office
equipment, specialized small equipment, training aids);
US$ 0.8 millionfor consultants (about 64 staff months of international consultants and about
84 staff months of local consultants);
US$ 1.2 million for HORTEX staff salaries and operating costs;
US$ 0.3 million for local training (exporters, farmers, grading personnel) and international
travel for market intelligence, exhibitions, study tours and seminars.
Project Component 2 - Strengthening Implementation of NAEP (US$ 9.9 million equivalent, IDA
US$ 1.7 million equivalent, DFID US$ 6.9 million equivalent, GOB US$ 1.3 million equivalent).



Page 28
This component would support learning and innovation aspects of ASIRP for extension
partnership programs among NGOs, DAE, and other government agencies and assistance in
strengthening monitoring and evaluation of extension effectiveness. In parallel, but not part of the
program supported by the LIL, an extension capacity building program, financed by a grant cf about
US$8.5 million from DFID and about US$5.5 from GOB, would support training, assistance in
institutional development, and strengthening of MOA's financial management. The initial draft
Guidelines for Award and Administration of Grants will be prepared by the Partnership Unit of DAE by
about October 31, 1999. The draft Guidelines would be reviewed by DFID and IDA and, i  found
acceptable would be submitted to EPICC for approval. However, this is intended to be an iterative,
learning-by-doing process, with annual reviews of the effectiveness of the policies and procedures and
subsequent revisions in the Guidelines, based on the lessons learned. The DFID-financed consultants
would assist in reviewing and preparing proposals for appropriate adjustments in these policies and
procedures. These revisions to the Guidelines would also be subject to the review and approval of
DFID, IDA and EPICC.
(a) Joint (NGOlDAE/local government/other agency) Partnership Programs in extension.
One of the benefits of NAEP has been the fostering of partnerships in extension among DAE,
NGOs, and other government organizations. In particular, the collaboration between DALE and NGOs
has improved effectiveness of both, by combining DAE's technical knowledge with NGO's greater
experience in group work, gender awareness and reaching the poorest rural families. Improved
cooperation has also been achieved between DAE's programs in crop production, and the extension
programs of the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries. ASIRP would support the efforts to enhance such
cooperative endeavors through partnership programs at three levels:
(i)  Thana level partnership funds (US$ 2.2 million equivalent - 50% GOB, 50% IDA)
A TAECC Partnership Fund of Tk. 75,000 about (US$ 1,500 equivalent) per thana per year,
controlled by the TAECC's will support very low cost partnership activities in line with NAEP
criteria, such as inputs and supplies for joint activities, support to joint NGO/DAE farmer training
activities, and facilitating communication and visits among organizations. These funds would
promote local networking and remove the frustrating bottlenecks to partnership that currently
exist at the grass roots level.
(ii) District Level Pilot Partnership Funds (US$ 2.5 million equivalent - DFID US$ 1.9 million, IDA
US$ 0.6 million, GOB under $0.1 million to cover estimated VAT and duties)
On a pilot basis, district level partnership funds would be established in twelve districts (out of
64). About $64,000 per district per year of grants would be provided on a competitive basis to
fund partnership proposals submitted by TAECCs or a group of TAECCs. Supported activities
could include, for example, programs under which NGOs provide specific extension services in
partnership with DAE, where DAE and Fisheries and Livestock extension services agree to
provide coordinated services to members of an NGO homestead development program, or where
a private sector seed producer works with an NGO program to train farmers in seed
multiplication. Particular interest has been expressed in trial programs under which NGO-
supported groups would send one or two members for training at one of the ATI's, who would
then be expected to function as trainers for group members under experiments in farrrer-led
extension. Grant proposals from the TAECC's would be evaluated and grants awarded on a
competitive basis. The DEPCs in these districts, including representatives of DAE, NGOs and
district level representatives of other concerned government agencies, would evaluate proposals



Page 29
and recommend those suitable for financing to EPICC. After initial experience using these
procedures, further delegation of authority to the DEPCs would be considered.
(iii) National Partnership Fund (US$ 1.6 million - DFID)
This third tier of funds, to be managed by a sub-committee of EPICC, would contract with a
small number of regional and national NGOs for provision of services requested by the TAECC's
or the DEPCs. These services might include, for example, training in participatory approaches,
facilitating workshops etc. and would always be to mixed groups (members of more than one
organization) from each participating district or thana level committee.
(b) Strengthening Monitoring and Evaluation Capacity (US$ 0.4e , US$ 0.2 million - DFID, US$ 0.2
million GOB).
Under ASSP a start has been made in the introduction of improved management information
systems, and training staff in their operation. The use of Knowledge, Attitudes and Practice (KAP)
surveys and technical audits have been introduced, but a longer period is needed to integrate them into
DAE's normal operating procedures.  Continued work is required to complete the design and
installation of the MIS systems, train staff to operate them and to train management to use them in their
planning and monitoring. Much of this work is embedded in the TA costs described below. But funds
are also required for continuation of extension program impact assessments. This would include, in
addition to studies by DAE's own staff, evaluation studies to be contracted out to suitable research
organizations or NGOs. Also included are funds for computer hardware and software acquisition and
upgrading. The GOB contribution above is the staff and operational costs for maintaining the systerns.
(c) Technical Assistance - (US$ 3.0 million - DFID) and training (US$0.2 million - DFID)
Embedded in (a) and (b) above is a substantial amount of technical assistance to help DAE in
(i) strengthening the capacity of EPICC, the DEPCs and the TAECCs to encourage and monitor
programs for partnership and collaboration in extension among NGOs, DAE, local government and
other government organizations; (ii) establishing and monitoring the procedures for handling the
partnerships under ASIRP and adjusting these procedures based upon lessons learned during
implementation; (iii) developing procedures and strengthening capacity for monitoring and evaluation
and organizing evaluation studies to measure the results of the various extension initiatives undertaken;
and (iv) organizing workshops to assist partnership programs at the national, district, andthana levels,
which would include representatives of NGOs and other government agencies involved in extension. It
is estimated that 95 staff months of international consultants and 134 staff months of national
consultants would be provided.
Project Component 3 - Small Scale Pilot Trial and Demonstration Programs (US$ 1.8 million
equivalent, IDA US$ 0.90 million, FAO US$ 0.53 million, GOB US$ 0.27 million, and beneficiaries
and NGOs about US$0.1 million)
These would be small trial and demonstration programs in areas of concern for food security
and agricultural growth, where there is insufficient experience as to appropriate solutions without
further small scale testing.  Three key issues have been selected, namely (a) on-farm water
management; (b) soil fertility management; and (c) use of weather information for crop yield
forecasting and advice to farmers. These programs would be supported under the overall Memorandum
Excluding related TA and training expenses.



Page 30
of Understanding between the World Bank President and the FAO Director-General, concerning World
Bank support of pilot phase activities under FAO's Special Program for Food Security (SPFS).
Component (a) would be financed primarily by FAO and GOB, while FAO, under trust fund
agreements, would assist in the coordination and provide technical and logistical support services and
supervision for components (b) and (c). FAO would handle procurement and FAO technical experts
would provide advice and assistance to international and local consultants, who would in turr. provide
training to GOB staff, participating NGOs and farners. The three components are summarized below.
More detailed descriptions would be in the trust fund agreements.
(a) On-Farm Water Management (OFWM-US$ 0.69 million equivalent, about US$ 0.53 million FAO,
US$0.6 million IDA, US$ 0.10 million GOB) f
The subproject would provide technical assistance to DAE to implement a pilot demonstration
program in on-farm water management in six locations of three districts representing differentagro-
ecological conditions. The pilot program would demonstrate how a substantial increase in agricultural
production can be achieved by introducing in a participative manner a package of appropriate
techniques and technologies related to better on-farm water management and the intensification of crop
production. By monitoring the impact on the farming system and by evaluating marketing, credit, and
socio-economic conditions, an analysis of the main constraints towards further expansion of the
technologies would be made. Progress would be monitored and evaluated to provide a basis for
decisions on possibilities of scaling up successful programs.
The project would in two years test and demonstrate a set of techniques and technologies to
increase and intensify crop production by improved water management and by appropriate crop
husbandry measures to improve soil fertility and pest control and increase use of improved varieties.
Furthermore the project would test and develop procedures to strengthen local, district and NGO's
capacity in providing effective and sustainable support services to farmers in water control for the
fiurther expansion of the SPFS program.
Water is the single most important factor in agricultural production in Bangladesh as the hydro-
ecological conditions of agricultural land related to flooding, waterlogging, depth to the water table or
water retention characteristics determine directly the cropping and production system, with rice being
the predominant crop. Water management for irrigation or drainage and flood control is a year-round
undertaking for the Bangladeshi farmer. Depending on the season and year, the farmer has either too
much or too little water. Therefore, improving on-farm water management to increase agricultural
productivity requires a holistic year-round approach. As water control can not be done in isolation,
farmers need to establish a mechanism for effective cooperation and partnership in water management.
Solutions for better water management are location-specific and need to be conceived, implemented,
operated and maintained by local farmers groups. Costs of water control works need to be financially
sustainable for farmers.
Bangladesh is well endowed with good soil and ecological diversity and has extensive surface
and sub-surface water resources suitable for irrigation development. Irrigation of rice in the dry/winter
season has been the main factor for the increase in agricultural production and the irrigated area in
Bangladesh expanded from 1.5 million ha in 1982 to 3.7 million ha in 1996. In particular the
liberalization of the minor irrigation equipment supply has resulted in a spectacular increase in irrigated
area and in a substantial boost in agricultural production. Over 90% of the irrigated area consists of
fIn addition, some technician services are expected to be financed by China, under the FAO-sponsored South-South Cooperation
Program. IDA would finance one vehicle and the US$300 per staff-month foreign exchange cost for up to 7 technicians under the FAO
sponsored South-South Cooperation Program, beyond the amounts financed by FAO and China.



Page 31
various forms of minor irrigation development related to the introduction of shallow and deeptubewells
and low lift pumps. Presently an estimated 30% of the country is equipped with irrigation equipment,
mainly through small lift irrigation from groundwater and surface waters. Gravity irrigation is limited
due to flat topography of the country. Minor irrigation schemes cover over 90% of the irrigated area
and utilize both surface and groundwater and lift water by suction mode, force mode or manually
operated devices.
Irrigation is practiced mainly for boro (dry/winter season) rice, which leaves irrigation
equipment idle for most of the rest of the year. In years of below average annual rainfall supplementary
irnigation at the grain filling stage of Transplanted (T.) Aman rice (wet/summer season) could prevent
as much as 40% loss of yield. The average area irrigated per pump is about 3.46 ha for shallow
tubewells (STWs), 20.8 ha for deep tubewells (DTWs) and 9.5 ha for low-lift pump (LLPs), although
their average annual capacities are respectively about 7 ha, 30 ha and 14 ha. The total area irrigated
therefore averages only 57% of the capacity of the installed equipment (48% for STWs, 56% for DTWs
and 64% for LLPs). Most minor irrigation systems have poor field water management due to a lack of
technical know-how as well as poor water control structures: improper canal cross-sections and layout
as well as inadequate drainage are common. In addition the social issues in cooperation among small
farmers impede maximum utilization of equipment. Intensity of utilization and food output could be
raised through better on-farm water management. But for this to happen in practice, farmers need to be
convinced that they can improve their income by better irrigation and drainage practices, and the
opportunities these provide for crop intensification and diversification.
Similarly, during the monsoon season flooding and water logging delay planting and decrease
yields. Little attention has been paid so far to the importance of field drainage and its potential to
intensify crop production and increase yields.
Considerable scope exists to further enhance and optimize productivity of the farming system
by better on-farm water management The ability of the Bangladeshi farmer to manage the water
optimally both in periods of excessive water as well in periods of water shortage will be for a large
extent determine his production, his food security and income. Crops and varieties, crop yield, cropping
calendar, and number of crops per year will be determined by access to irrigation, drainability, ground
water depth and the duration and depth of the flood waters. The small farm holdings and complex
hydraulic systems mean that no farmer can manage his waters in isolation and he is dependent in many
ways on the cooperation of other farmers, pump owners and share-croppers.
Under ASSP, DAE in early 1997 established a Water Management and Agricultural
Engineering Wing to promote the introduction of better water management at field level. Agricultural
engineering staff have been assigned in 21 Districts and 42 Thanas and received training in water
management under ASSP. However staff have inadequate practical experience and skills to effectively
advise farmers in on-farm water management. Lacking is a package of well-defined tested technologies
and effective procedures, which will promote the introduction of improved on-farm water management
and ensure appropriate cooperation among farmers in effective water management.
Field trials would test and demonstrate promising technologies and develop appropriate
procedures to ensure adoption of the technologies at farm level. To be successful, OFWM programs
must start with farmers own perceptions of their problems and requirements. Programs need to be
defined through a consultative process, based on such farmer-identified issues, rather than a priori
technical judgements. The pilot demonstrations would emphasize cooperation of farmers in joint
operation and maintenance of common water control structures, the formation of Water Management
Associations, and strengthening their capacity in sustainable water management. The objectives of the
program would be:



Page 32
i.  to demonstrate and pilot appropriate procedures and techniques in water management at
farm level consistent with farmers own perceived needs and the social and economic
conditions, which would intensify and increase crop production and ensure the
sustainable and participative management of surface and ground water.
ii.  to develop and test procedures to strengthen the capacity of DAE in partnership with
local NGO's to provide an effective support to farmers in on-farm water management to
intensify crop production.
iii. to monitor and assess program effectiveness in a systematic analysis of constraints and to
prepare recommendations on whether and how the pilot demonstrations can be expanded
into national and regional development programs linked to international assistance and
investment programs.
The subproject would be carried out in two thanas each in Jessore District (low rainfall,
drought prone, predominantly irrigated by shallow tubewells), Gopalganj District (lowland areas, flood
prone, irrigated by shallow tubewells and low-lift pumps), and Rangpur District (drought prone,
shallow groundwater, irrigated primarily by shallow tubewells, shallow flooding in low-land areas).
Training programs would be provided and training materials developed for DAE staff, staff of
participating NGOs and farmers.
After each growing season an assessment would be made of the impact and results of the new
technologies introduced. This would include a financial and economic analysis of the main
interventions related to the engineering and crop demonstration programs and crop budgets for project
and non-project areas. Preparation of the seasonal impact assessments would be done by the national
team, in coordination with the Planning and Evaluation Wing of DAB, with advice from the FAO
farming system specialist.
A final report would be prepared in which assessment is made of the technical, economic and
financial viability of the OFWM interventions and approaches for conveying these proposed
interventions to farmers in an effective training and extension program. The financial and economic
analysis would provide the basis for decisions on expansion of the pilot program activities. The results
would be presented at a National Seminar to be held in October 2000.
The Policy and Planning Wing of the Ministry of Agriculture would play a central role in the
overall guidance and coordination of project activities. Operational Responsibility of the OFWM
program would be vested with the Deputy Director of the Field Services Wing of DAE, who would
ensure the necessary arrangements, facilities and assignment of staff in the decentralized offices.
Technical Responsibility for the implementation of the program  would rest with  the Water
Management and Agricultural Engineering Wing of DAE. The Deputy Director of this Wing would
function as the Sub-project Coordinator of the OFWM subproject. He would be assisted in this by FAO
assigned technical advisors, which would include national consultants, and FAO technical staff and
consultants. Implementation of the OFWM program would be carried out in the six pilot sites by DAE
field staff in the concemed districts and thanas. Staff assigned to the implementation of the pilot
program would include:



Page 33
at District level the Senior Agricultural Engineer and District Agricultural Officer with
further assistance of the concerned subject matter specialists;
at Thana level       the Thana Agricultural Engineer and Thana Agricultural Officer;
at Union level:      the DAE Block Supervisor.
All the salary cost for the above staff would be borne by GOB.
FAO's contribution would include financing of services of FAO technical staff and consultants,
about 22 staff months of national consultants, in-country training, contracts withNGOs and national
institutes to assist in surveys, community development and training, office equipment, six motor bikes
for participating DAE staff, and materials, supplies, operating costs, and part of the cost of additional
technicians provided by China under the South-South Cooperation Program.   For ease of
administration, IDA's contribution (about US$60,000 equivalent for 1 vehicle and partial support of the
South-South Cooperation technical services) would be included as part of the trust fund agreement for
component (b) below.
(b) Village Level Soil Fertility Management (US$ 0.58 million equivalent, US$ 0.38 million IDA,
about US$ 0.1 million GOB, and about US$0.1 million from NGOs, Bangladesh Fertilizer Association
(BFA), and beneficiaries).
While data are unreliable and inconclusive, there are widespread concerns that declining soil
fertility is a major problem in Bangladesh. Farmers report that increasing levels of fertilizer application
are required to maintain production. Fertilizer use is unbalanced. In 1995 nitrogen was 80% of
fertilizer nutrients used (as compared to 71% in India and 66% in China - but India is also considered to
be using too low a proportion of phosphates and potassium). There is almost no use of trace element
additives. Increasing rice monoculture and reduced silt deposits (due to flood protection works) add to
the problem. While recommended fertilizer application rates are available for each region, there is little
capacity to give application rate advice based upon specific soil conditions in farmers' fields. Simple
cost-effective ways of measuring soil fertility are needed to assist extension workers and farmers in
determining appropriate fertilizer application rates and soil management practices. Little capacity for
such soil testing currently exists.
While suggestions have been made for establishing government run soil laboratories in every
district or thana to analyze the status of soil fertility and make related local fertilizer application rate
recommendations, the estimated costs, including required annual subsidy, do not appear to be feasible.
All prior government soil-testing services have been heavily subsidized.
The pilot project is designed to test strategies for improving farmers knowledge on fertilizer
management so as to improve farmers' ability to handle the growing complexity of fertilizer
management associated with rapid intensification and changing cropping patterns. The direct objective
is to test ways of bringing soil testing within the reach of farmers on a low-cost sustainable basis, to
enable them to make timely decisions on fertilizer management in their fields. The goal is not
necessarily complete soil testing, but rather to develop the capacity to conduct those tests that are of
greatest relevance to farmers' decisions. Soil testing would be complemented by other methods (such
as spraying a few square meters where zinc deficiency is suspected). The subproject aims to pilot
various systems operated essentially along commercial lines organized or administered through
different partners, including NGOs, DAE, the Soil Resources Development Institute (SRDI), and the
Bangladesh Fertilizer Association. Charges would be levied for tests at levels which the farmers can
afford and would be increased on a phased basis to levels expected to cover costs at full capacity in the
long run, estimated to be about TK 60 per test (except for SRDI, which has higher staffing levels). The
project would allow the participating organizations to work according to their own methodologies.



Page 34
However, they would document their approaches and their effectiveness would be monitored.
Reliability of analytical results, timeliness and effectiveness in their delivery and progressive ability to
cover costs would be important criteria.
The approaches are expected to include four low-cost transportable laboratories, suitable for
shifting locations at the end of a season (DAE, two NGOs, and Bangladesh Fertilizer Association),
mobile laboratories (one NGO and SRDI, the later using existing equipment), and DAE staff members
collecting soil samples, and delivering them  to regional laboratories (DAE).  The participating
organizations would discuss the results with farmers and provide them with reports (with symbols
understandable by illiterate farmers). Data from farmer interviews on field history and characteristics
would be used for proper interpretation of results. Data would be submitted each trimester to DAE and
SRDI for monitoring and evaluation and to permit further research. Each organization would at the
same time supply a sample of soil samples and test results to SRDI for quality control on test reliability.
DAE would appoint a Sub-project Coordinator who would be responsible for coordinating
activities. Participating organizations would select areas for the pilot program among the areas where
they are providing services. An implementation committee would bring together representatives of
participating organizations to exchange experiences, learn from each other and coordinate to avoid
overlap of services. DAE would train personnel assigned by the participating organizations in soil
fertility management and extension methodology while training in soil analysis would be provided at
SRDIL
Monitoring and evaluation would include number of samples analyzed, timeliness of delivery
of results, quality and reliability of test results, number and nature of follow-up activities, the
satisfaction of farmers with the tests, and improved yields resulting from the fertilizer
recommendations. After one year, a sample of farmers would be revisited to assess improvements
achieved. Detailed cost accounts would be maintained to permit financial analysis of the various
systems used.
Each participating agency would have a focal point officer for the subproject. The subproject
would be assisted by an FAO technical team and international and national consultants. Aside from
contracted staff for laboratory services, the subproject would use existing local staff of the agencies
involved. The proposed credit would finance a contract between GOB and FAO, acceptable to IDA,
for assistance in implementation of this subproject. Under this contract, FAO would finance its experts,
procure the services of international and local consultants, organize training programs, procure 5 small
laboratory sets (including equipment, chemicals and utensils), 2 double cabin pickups and 1 motorbike,
6 computers, office equipment and furniture. Operating costs of the laboratories would be provided on
a declining scale of 100% in the first year, 50% in the second year, and nothing in the third year. The
remaining operating costs not covered by payments by farmers for services provided, would be met by
the participating organizations. As an exception, in the case of SRDI the subproject would cover for
three years the cost of direct operation expenditures, excluding staff salaries and depreciation. GOB
would cover its staff salaries, taxes and duties on equipment and the excess of its operating costs over
the declining payments received under the subproject and payments received from farmers. NGOs and
BFA would finance the excess of their operating costs over the declining payments received under the
project and payments received from farmers.



Page 35
The estimated financing plan for this subproject is as follows:
Subproject Costs:                    million US$
Equipment (laboratory equipment,
6 computers, 2 pick-ups, 1 motorbike,
office furniture)                    0.15
National Staff, consultants and training    0.15
International Staff & FAO support    0.11
Operational Cost                     0.17
Total                      0.58
To be financed:
IDA                               0.38
GOB                               0.10
NGOs & BFA                        0.05
Beneficiaries                      0.05
Total                      0.58
(c) Crop Yield Forecasting and weather advice to farmers (US$ 0.53 million equivalent, about $ 0.46
million IDA and $ 0.07 million GOB)
Bangladesh has nearly doubled its foodgrain production over the past 25 years and has reached
rice self-sufficiency in years of normal weather. Unfortunately Bangladesh too often has abnormal
weather. Reduced output frequently results from delayed rain after crops have germinated, the onset of
rains earlier than expected, extensive flooding and cyclones. Too often the result, in terms of below
expected food production, is not recognized until the harvest. By then it is difficult for either private
traders or the Government to arrange imports in time to avert excessive price rises, which cause much
suffering to the poor. Too often also the food ordered in response to the shortage does not arrive until
the next production season, when the high prices of the prior season have already resulted in a greater
than normal crop. These additional imports add to the surplus, leading to sharp price reductions which
are harmful to farmer incentives. Thus better early warning systems in poor production seasons, which
could allow private traders and, if necessary, Government to make timely imports would be beneficial
both in terms of food security and reduced price fluctuations. Similarly, although wheat and rice are
not perfect substitutes, reduced food aid (wheat) imports in years of better than normal harvests could
improve farmer incentives (for both producers of rice and wheat) leading to increased production and
long-run lower prices to consumers.
GOB has an Early Warning and Food Information System (EWFIS) intended to provide a
comprehensive appraisal of the food situation in the country and to advise on policies and actions
required to strengthen food security. At present EWFIS is being operated and managed by the Food
Planning and Monitoring Unit (FPMU) in the Ministry of Food. However FPMU is not involved in the
primary data collection systems of the collaborating agencies. Since that data is not always available
on time and is often of doubtful accuracy, there is in fact no effective early warning system in place.
To monitor and forecast food production, an assessment of planted acreage, crop growth and
yield is needed. The basic data and information for these assessments should be based upon
agricultural statistical surveys, agrometeorological observations, crop condition monitoring,
observations of input supply, water resources, pests and diseases, and eventually remote sensing data.
The starting point is the collection of area and yield data from the agricultural statistics service.
However, weather is the main single factor behind inter-annual variability of crop production. The
Bangladesh Meteorological Department (BMD) is providing the relevant weather data on a regular



Page 36
basis. However, due to the absence of trained and experienced staff, these data currently are not
properly analyzed and interpreted to permit reliable predictions of crop yield.
An attempt to develop a system for using weather variables to predict crop yields had been
made earlier (1985-87) under an FAO project, but at the time the techniques of agrometeorological
forecasting were not as well developed as at present. In addition the people trained at that time to
implement the system are no longer in relevant positions. In spite of this earlier failure, the issues
involved are sufficiently important to make a new attempt worth undertaking.
An attempt was also initiated in 1985 to organize agrometeorological advice to farmers.
Weekly reports were to have been issued which would inter alia warn farmers of unfavorable weather
or climatic conditions and incidence of agricultural pests and diseases.  A memorandum of
understanding was signed between BMD and DAE, but was never implemented. Nevertheless, the
need for provision of agrometeorological advice to farmers has been recognized for a long time.
This subproject would therefore assist in developing and testing on a pilot basis methodologies
for: (a) improving the use of climate and weather knowledge to support the operation and management
of the national Early Warning and Food Information System which would provide reliable food
information and contribute to improved food security, and (b) providing timely information to farmers
giving practical advice on actions to be taken to cope with weather variation and thus reducing crop
losses. Objective (a) above would involve improved methods for (i) collecting data by DAE on crop
area and yields and (ii) assesing the effects of weather variations on crop yields. The pilot operations
would take place in two districts (Rajshahi and Satkhira) selected due to the presence of periodic
droughts, issues of flood insecurity, and the availability of meteorological stations. The results of the
pilot program would be evaluated as a basis for decisions on potential for subsequent scaling up.
This subproject would be managed by the Field Services Wing of DAE, but would include also
equipment and training for the Bangladesh Meteorological Department (BMD) and a PC for the Food
Policy Monitoring Unit (FPMU) to handle the data generated by the Ministry of Agriculture. BMD
would be responsible for providing the climatic, meteorological and phenological data, while DAE
could provide the area, crop stage and crop condition data relevant for crop monitoring and crop
forecasting. Data analysis and maintenance of the data base would be handled by a crop monitoring
and forecasting group (CMFG) to be established in the Monitoring Section of the Field Services Wing
of DAE, including an agrometeorologist to be deputed by BMD. The data would be shared with BMD.
A staff member of the Monitoring Section would be assigned to be Sub-project Coordinator. Current
DAE organized radio broadcasts to farmers would convey weather information generated by the project
and advice as to how to cope with weather variations. Information would also be provided through the
Agricultural Information Service. Monthly crop monitoring reports for the pilot districts would be
prepared and distributed, including to the FPMU and the private sector.
Training would be provided to DAE and BMD staff in the use of technical software and on
analysis of agrometeorological data and satellite imagery for crop monitoring. This would include a
two 3-month overseas fellowships. Training would also be provided to DAE district and than a level
staff, including improved methods of data collection and use of weather information for advising
farmers.
The proposed credit would finance a contract between GOB and FAO, acceptable to IDA, for
assistance in implementation of this subproject, under which FAO would finance its experts, procure
the services of international and national consultants, provide FAO-developed software, organize
training programs, procure equipment, and finance operating costs excluding GOB staff. GOB would
cover its staff salaries and taxes and duties on equipment.



Page 37
The estimated costs for this subproject would be as follows:
US$ million
Equipment, materials, & supplies (primarily data processing hardware and software)  US $ 0.08
Consultants Services and FAO support                                               0.28
Training of MOA, DAE, and BMD staff (including 2 three month overseas fellowships)  0.08
Salaries and operating costs (including in country travel)                         0.09
Total                                                         0.53
Institutional and Implementing Arrangements:
MOA, through the Secretary, would have overall responsibility for project implementation. A
Project Steering Committee, chaired by Secretary of Agriculture and including the Director General of
DAE, Joint Secretary MOA, General Manager HORTEX, Project Director, Sub-project Coordinators,
and representatives of the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance, the Planning
Commission and IMED, would meet periodically to monitor implementation performance and develop
solutions to issues or bottlenecks impeding progress. HORTEX Foundation, an autonomous non-profit
organization registered under the Companies Act, would manage the horticultural production and
export component. Other components would be managed by DAE. Technical assistance for the
partnership and extension monitoring and evaluation components, would be provided by a DFID
financed Technical Assistance (TA) team. FAO, under SPFS, would assist in financing the pilot
program for improved on-farm water management and, under trust fund agreements financed by the
IDA Credit, would assist in the coordination and provide technical and logistical support services for
the other two small-scale pilot programs. DAE would appoint a coordinator for each of the SPFS
programs. An Implementation Committee would bring together the representatives of government and
non-governmental organizations participating in the soil fertility management subproject.
In May 1997, MOA established a DAE Management Committee with responsibility for
strategic planning, resource allocation, performance monitoring and managing the institutional change
process. This committee would function as a monitoring committee for the project within DAE. MOA
has designated an Additional Director, DAE to serve as Project Director for the DAE components.
Agricultural technical committees at national and district levels, including representatives of farming
systems research units, would continue to provide research/extension linkages, and assist in preparing
recommendations for dealing with farmer problems identified at the thana level. Also in 1997, an
Extension Policy Implementation Coordinating Committee (EPICC) was established at the national
level and District Extension Programming Committees (DEPCs) in each district with membership from
NGOs, DAE, other government agencies involved in extension and the private sector. At the grass
roots level, a key role will be played by the TAECCs in coordinating local level initiatives and
DAE/NGO/other agency extension partnerships. The project would support grants of about US$ 1,500
equivalent per year for each thana for such joint activities. In addition, on a pilot basis in twelve
districts (out of 64), District Partnership Funds would be provided to finance grants for partnership
proposals submitted by TAECCs or groups of TAECCs. The DEPCs would evaluate such partnership
proposals and recommend those suitable for financing to EPICC for approval. After initial experience
using these procedures, further delegation of authority to the DEPCs would be considered. A national
partnership fund, under the control of EPICC would enable experienced NGOs to provide services such
as, for example, training in participatory techniques to staff of smaller NGOs and DAE staff. The
criteria, policies and procedures for the grant programs would be reviewed annually, in consultation



Page 38
with IDA and DFID, and would be adjusted based on experience. While the relative roles within the
above committees may change during the project period, with the expected initiation of elected local
government at thana and district levels, the basic structure described above is not expected to change.
The component for strengthening M&E, including M&E of project activities, would be managed by
DAE's Planning and Evaluation Wing. The Joint Secretary for Extension of MOA would have day to
day responsibility for monitoring the project and maintaining links between MOA and EPICC.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Under ASSP DAE started to use knowledge, attitude and practices (KAP) sample surveys to
obtain information on total farmer contacts, success in reaching different types of farmers (size of
holdings, gender), interest of messages to recipients and intention to adopt new techniques being
introduced. These types of surveys would be continued and improved to measure specifically the
effectiveness of the partnership programs in delivering extension messages. In addition, sample
studies would be undertaken through contracts with suitable research organizations or NGOs to
determine the benefits in production and income attributable to the extension messages.
DAE would use similar techniques to measure the effectiveness of the SPSF pilot trial and
demonstration programs. These would be supplemented by specific M&E activities carried out under
the SPSF programs. For the soil testing/fertility management subproject, data would be collected on
the number of samples analyzed for farmers on a paid basis, time taken for delivery of results, and the
accuracy of the results in the samples cross-checked by SRDI. Detailed cost accounts would be kept to
permit financial analysis of the various systems used. Subject Matter specialists would record the
number and nature of farmer requests for follow up activities. After a year, a revisit of farmers
receiving services would be made to collect data, on a sample basis, on satisfaction of farmers with the
services received, resulting changes of practices and their effects on yields. For the crop yield
forecasting/agrometeorology sub project, field visits would be undertaken to verify the accuracy of the
crop production forecasts. Sample surveys would also be undertaken to determine farmer satisfaction
with the weather related advice received, resulting changes of farmer practices, and the effects on
production and incomes. The on-farm water management subproject includes an assessment of the
technical, economic and financial viability of the various interventions tested, as well as farmers'
satisfaction with the program.
HORTEX has been monitoring the profitability of production and export for the producers and
exporters it is assisting, and this would continue. HORTEX would also continue to monitor satisfaction
of importers with the products received.



Page 39
Annex 3
Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                         Local       I   Foreign    ITotal
--------------- US $ million--------------------
1 - HORTEX provision of support to pioneering                 1.3             1.1           2.4
horticultural & export activities
2 - Strengthening implementation of NAEP                       7.4            2.0           9.4
3 - Small-scale pilot programs                                0.9             0.8           1.7
Total                                                         9.6             3.9          13.5
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                      0.4             0.2          0.6
Price Contingencies                                         0.2             0.1          0.3
Total Project Cost                                            10.2            4.2          14.4



Page 40
Annex 4
Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project
Economic Analysis Summary
No economic analysis is required as this would be a LIL pilot operation. In any case, for extension
projects it is not possible to arrive at a precise level of benefits from project investments, as the speed of uptake
of improved practices is difficult to predict, and the speed with which farmers might have adopted new
techniques in absence of the project is also a matter of speculation. The most that can be expected are
indicative calculations indicating that the EIRR for project investments is satisfactory under a broad range of
scenanos.
One indication of the likely impact of improved extension services under the project is the indicative
rate of return of about 25% calculated by the FAO ICR mission for the extension improvement components
under ASSP. While these results are only indicative, they do point to the opportunities for high returns through
improved transmission of technical services.
With regard to the HORTEX component, economic analysis undertaken by IDA staff in connection
with the preparation of a Bangladesh Rural Development Strategy indicates that Bangladesh has comparative
advantage in producing a wide range of horticultural crops. The draft strategy report also notes, however, that
there are significant initial barriers to entry in terms of training and organizing small farmers to produce new
crops efficiently in sufficient volume to make cost-effective marketing possible, and the logistical support
required to bring the produce to market while maintaining quality.



Page 41
Annex 5
Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project
Financial Summary
Not Applicable



Page 42
Annex 6
Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project
Procurement, Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement Guidelines
1.    When a contract for goods or works is financed in part or in whole from IDA funds, the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 (Revised January and August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999) shall apply. Consultants services financed in part or in whole from
IDA funds will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. Specific
investments financed by FAO and DFID will be in accordance with their Guidelines. IDA-financed activities
under the SPSF pilot programs would be managed under standard format trust fund agreements between GOB
and FAO, acceptable to IDA, under which, inter alia, FAO would procure goods and consultants services and
organize training.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
2.    Procurement of goods and works (including related services) will be undertaken in accordance with the
following procedures:
(a)    Works (US$0.1 M): Minor civil works for Hortex Foundation estimated to cost less than US$20,000
equivalent per contract, up on to an aggregate amount not to exceed US $ 200,000 equivalent, may be procured
through solicitation of price quotations from at least three qualified bidders eligible under the guidelines. Any
contract estimated to cost US$ 20,000 equivalent or more would be procured through national competitive
bidding (NCB).
(b)    Goods (US$0.7 M): Procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more
per contract will be made through international competitive bidding (ICB). Any goods estimated to cost less
than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured through NCB. Up to an aggregate amount of
US$200,000 equivalent, goods estimated to cost less than US$20,000 per contract may be procured through
international shopping (IS) or national shopping (NS) by soliciting price quotations from at least three eligible
bidders. About US$0.2 million of goods partially financed by IDA would be procured by FAO on behalf of the
Borrower under trust fund agreements using FAO procedures. About US$0.1 million of goods would be
financed by DFID or FAO, using their procurement procedures.
(c)    Services (US$4.6 M): Services of the two international and two national individual consultants already
hired by Hortex Foundation under TA VI may be extended under the project. Individual consultants will be
hired on the basis of qualifications and experience. Consulting firm services, other than for audit, estimated to
cost the equivalent of US $100,000 or more shall be procured on the basis of the Quality- and Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS) method. Consulting firm services relating to audit may be procured following the least cost
selection method. Other consulting firm services could be awarded either by the QCBS method or on the basis
of qualifications, experience and competence relevant to the assignment. About US$0.4 million of individual
consultants contracts financed by IDA would be awarded by FAO under a trust fund agreement. About US$0.1
million equivalent would be charged by FAO for technical and administrative services. About US$3.5 million
of consultants services would be financed by DFID or FAO, using their procurement procedures.



Page 43
(d)   Training (US$0.7 M): Training (about US$0.3 M) for Hortex Foundation would cover international
study tours, market intelligence trips, seminars and local training for about 750 participants by Single-Source
method. Training estimated to cost the equivalent of about US$0.1 M financed by IDA would be managed by
FAO under trust fund agreements. About US$0.3 million of training financed by DFID or FAO would be
arranged under their procedures.
(e)    Partnership Funds (US$6.2 M): About US$0.6 million of IDA funds would cover awards under a
competitive grants program. In such cases, the NGOs participating in preparing the grant proposals would be
expected to receive the contract. Such contracts would be expected to cost less than $30,000 each. Grant
proposals would be evaluated by District level committees, including representatives of DAE,NGOs and other
government agencies, which would recommend those suitable for financing to EPICC for approval. The DFID-
financed consultants would assist in developing appropriate procedures. About US$1.1 million of IDA funds
would finance 50% of expenditures for local level joint NGO/govemrnment partnership activities (inputs,
training, & travel) procured by Thana partnership committees from annual grants of US$1,500 per year per
Thana. Such small expenditures would be arranged through Single-Source method. About US$3.4 million of
partnership activities would be financed by DFID using procedures agreed with it.
Use of Standard Documents (IDA financed components)
3.    For ICB procurement, the use of IDA's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for goods, modified by the
Government and agreed by IDA, is mandatory. For NCB procurement, the implementing agency will use the
trial editions 1998 of the SBDs for goods and works prepared by the Bank's BDO. Consultants and NGO
proposals will be invited using the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (SRFP). The Bank's Standard Bid
Evaluation Form for goods and works (April 1996, modified by BDO) will be used.
Acceptability of National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
4.    To address the shortcomings experienced in some earlier IDA funded projects, covering a wide range
of sectors, NCB procedures would meet the requirement listed below. It is noted that ERD Guidelines for
Procurement of Goods and Works financed under Project Aid dated May 1992 (ERD Guidelines) already cover
some of the requirements herein set forth. In accordance with Page 58, Paragraph 5 of the ERD Guidelines, if
there are any inconsistencies between the provisions of the ERD Guidelines and the provisions below, which
would be recorded in Supplemental Letters, the provisions of the Supplemental Letters shall prevail.
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I of
the Guidelines:
(a)   invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper, at least
30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids;
(b)   bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the required
fee;
(c)   evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the bidding documents,
in a format and specified period agreed by the Association;
(d)   bids shall be opened in public in one place, immediately after the deadline for submission of bids;
(e)   eligibility requirements shall be common for national and foreign bidders. Foreign bidders meeting
these requirements shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any kind shall be given to national
bidders;



Page 44
(f)    qualification criteria (in case pre-qualification was not carried out) shall be stated in the bidding
documents, and, if a registration process is required, a foreign firm declared as the lowest evaluated bidder shall
be given a reasonable opportunity of registering;
(g)    contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders;
(h)    post bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders;
(i)    bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate without the prior
concurrence of the Association;
(j)    re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Association's prior concurrence;
(k)    all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as indicated in the biddingicontract
documents;
(I)    a bidder's Bid Security shall apply only to a specific bid, and contractor's performance securtty shall
apply only to the specific contract under which it was fumished.
(m)    bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over the estimated cost;
(n)    extension of bid validity shall not be allowed unless justified by exceptional circumstances; and
(o)    there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the bids.



Page 45
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US $million equivalent)
Total Cost (including
Expenditure Category                         Procurement Method                      contingencies)
ICB           NCB             Other          N.B.F
1. Works
o.la                            0.1
(0.1)                           (0.1)
2. Goods
0.3           0.1             0.3b           0.1              0.8
(0.2)          (0.1)          (0.2)                           (0.5)
3. Consultants
1.2C          3.5               4.7
(1.2)                           (1.2)
4. Training
0.4d           0.3              0.7
(0.4)                           (0.4)
5. Partnership Funds
2.8e           3.4              6.2
(1.7)                           (1.7)
6. Operating Costs                                             1.3f           0.6              1.9
(1. 1)                          (1.1)
Total                            0.3            0.1            6.1            7.9             14.4
(0.2)          (0.1)          (4.7)                           (5.0)
Note:   N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (US $ 6.9 million equivalent DFID, US $ 0.5 million
FAO, and about US $ 0.5 million GOB financed salaries and operating costs).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed from the IDA credit.
a. minor civil works for HORTEX, at least 3 quotes from qualified contractors (or if any contract is $20,000 equivalent or more, by
national competitive bidding).
b $.05 million of misc. goods and equipment for HORTEX by national or international shopping and .$.21 million of equipment to be
procured by FAO under a trust fund agreement.
c  Individual contracts of two international and two national consultants for HORTEX, who were selected competitively under the
Technical Assistance VI Project, may be extended. About $ 0.6 million of individual consultants contracts for HORTEX would be
awarded based on the procedures in Section V of the consultants guidelines. Any contracts awarded to a firm, other than auditing,
would be awarded based on QCBS if estimated to cost $100,000 or more. Auditing would be by least cost. Any other services by a
firm could be by QCBS or qualifications.
About $0.4 million of individual consultants contract would be awarded by FAO under a trust fund agreement. About US$0.1
million would be charged by FAO for technical and administrative services.
d About $0.3 million for HORTEX would cover international study tours, market intelligence trips, and seminars plus expenditures for
local training for about 750 participants. About $0.1 million of training would be managed by FAO under a trust fund agreement.
e  About $0.6 million would cover awards under a competitive grants program in 3 districts for the costs of NGO/DAE/other
government agency cooperative programs. Grants would total about $64,000 per district per year. Average grant size expected to
be below $20,000. $1.1 million would reimburse 50% of expenditures for local level inputs, training expenditures and travel to
facilitate local level joint NGO/government partnership activities, on the basis of US $1,500 per thana per year.
f  About US $1.1 million of HORTEX operating expenditures and about US $0.2 million of operating expenditures under small-scale
trials.



Page 46
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B) (IDA financed components)
5.      Goods: Prior review by IDA for procurement of goods will be limited to the first two contracts
procured through NCB procedures and all contracts estimated to equivalent of US$100,000 or more. All other
contracts will be subject to selective post review by IDA.
6.      Services:   IDA's prior review  will be required  for all service  contracts estimated  to  cost
US$100,000equivalent or more for firms and US$50,000 or more for individuals. Other procurement
arrangements subject to prior review by IDA will include: Single-Source contracts with consulting firms,
amendments to contracts of consulting firms raising the contract value of those contracts to the equivalent of
US$100,000 or more, amendments to contracts of individual consultants raising the contract value of those
contracts to the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, and terms of reference for technical assistance, including
studies and training.
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure            Contract Value                Procurement                   Contracts Subject to
Category               (Threshold)                  Procedure/Method               Prior Review
1. Works
Less than US$20,000          At least 3 quotations from    Post Review
qualified contractors
US$20,000 or more            NCB                           Prior review of first two contract
for goods or works Other contracts
subject to post review.
2. Goods
(a) HORTEX             US$ 100,000 or more           ICB                           Prior Review
Refrigerated trucks and
containers
(b) Other Goods        US$20,000 or more but less    NCB                           Prior review of first two contracts
than US$100,000                                            for goods or works
Less than US$20,000          National or International     Post Review
Shopping
(c) SPSF pilot programs                              FAO procedures
3. Services
(a) Consulting         US$ 100,000 or more           Quality- and Cost-Based       Prior Review
Firms/NGOs except                                    Selection
Auditors and FAO
Less than US$100,000         Quality and Cost Based selection  Post Review
or qualifications
(b) Auditors           All                           Least-Cost Selection          Only terms of reference
(c) FAO                All                           Single Source                 Prior agreement
(d) Individual         US$50,000 or more             Qualifications                Prior Review
Consultants
Less than US$50,000          Qualifications                Post Review
(e) SPSF pilot programs                              FAO Procedures
4. Partnership Funds
(a) Competitive grants    Less than US$30,000        Proposals selected by grants
committee
(b) Thana grants       Less than US$2,000            Single-Source



Page 47
Disbursements
Annex 6, Table C: Alocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount in US$       Financing Percentage
million
1. HORTEX
a. Goods                                     0.300        100% of foreign, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 70% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
b. Civil works                               0.100       90%
c. Consultants Services, Training and        0.900        100%
International Travel
d. Operating Costs                           0.900        100% in FY2000, 95% in
FY2001 and 90% thereafter
2. Disbursements from Partnership Funds
a. Thana Partnership Grants                  1.100       50%
b. District Partnership Grants in three Districts  0.600
agreed with IDA
(i) goods                                              70%
(ii) other than goods                                  100%
3.Small Scale Pilot Trial and Demonstration
Programs
Expenditures under Trust Fund Agreements     0.893        100%
4. Unallocated                                  0.207
Total                                           5.000



Page 48
Administration of Disbursements
7.    The Government has agreed to provide HORTEX, as a grant, a fund of 5 million taka (about
US$100,000 equivalent) to enable HORTEX to make expenditures prior to receiving reimbursement from the
Credit. The Credit would include up to US$50,000 of retroactive financing for expenditure by HORTEX after
July 1, 1999.
8.    The GOB/FAO agreements for the pilot programs would provide for GOB to submit withdrawal
applications for the full amount of the IDA-financed services under the programs, and for IDA to make periodic
payments in accord with quarterly statements from FAO on expenditures during the previous three months and
estimated cash requirements during the forthcoming six month period. IDA approval of such an agreement
would be a condition of disbursement for each pilot program.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
*  HORTEX Foundation civil works expenditures
*  Contracts for goods costing less than US $100,000
*  Contracts for consultants costing less than US $100,000 for firns, and $50,000 for individual consultants
*  Expenditures related to training and travel (market intelligence, exhibitions of Bangladeshi produce,
seminars etc.)
*  Operating and maintenance expenditures
Special Account
9.    To facilitate the implementation of the project, the Borrower will open and maintain two Convertible
Taka Special Accounts (CONTASA) in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA with authorized allocations of
BDT 14,400,000 (for Hortex Foundation), and another for BDT 9,600,000 (for DAE). Eligible individual
payments greater than one-fourth of the authorized allocation in the respective Special Account may be paid by
the Bank directly to the suppliers/contractors and/or consultants at the specific request of GOB. At the start of
the project the authorized allocation shall be limited to BDT 7,200,000 (for Hortex Foundation Special
Account) and BDT 4,800,000 (for DAE Special Account). The remaining portion of the respective Special
Account may be requested only after cumulative disbursements reach SDR 600,000 for the Hortex Foundation
component and SDR 500,000 for the DAE components. The respective Special Accounts will be replenished
by IDA on the basis of reimbursement claims for eligible expenditures.
Financial Management and Reporting:
10.   An assessment of the financial management systems of the implementing agencies (DAE and
HORTEX) was carried out during the appraisal stage of the project, to see that the arrangements meet the
Bank's requirement under OP/BP 10.02 and the guidelines under the Loan Administration Change Initiative
(LACI). The detailed financial management requirements are included in the PIP. Key aspects of the financial
management systems are as follows:
a) Accounting: The present accounting systems in DAE and HORTEX are maintained manually. The
systems are adequate for project monitoring but not adequate to introduce Project Management Reports (PMRs)
based disbursements. HORTEX will be provided assistance under the project to computerize its accounting
system including staff training. DAE has the capacity and trained staff to operate a computerized accounting
system, which is not in place. The Reforms in Budgeting and Expenditure Control (RIBEC) project under the
Ministry of Finance, with support from DFID, has designed improved computerized accounting systems which
have now been introduced in the Ministries of Health and Education. During the project period, with DFID



Page 49
financing under the capacity building portion of ASIRP, RIBEC will also computerize the accounts of MOA,
including DAE.
b) Budgeting: Budgeting: By February each year both DAE and HORTEX will submit their annual work
programs and budgets for following year to IDA for review and agreement. The ADP budget shall be requested
in accordance with the agreed work program.
c) Reporting Systems: DAE and HORTEX will prepare quarterly PMRs as per specific formats and submit
the same within forty five days (except Output Monitoring Reports) from the end of each quarter. PMR will
show: (1) financial Statements that include: (i) Sources and Uses of Funds; (ii) Usage of funds by Project
Activities; (iii) Project Balance Sheet; (iv) Cash Withdrawal; (v) Cash Forecast; (vi) Special Account
Statement; and (2) Output Monitoring Reports which will be designed by HORTEX and DAE in consultation
with IDA and submit the same to IDA from the quarter ending June 30, 2000. The specific formats for these
reports are included in the PIP.
d) Audit: The Comptroller and Auditor General (C & AG), through the Directorate of Audit-Foreign Aided
Projects, carries out audits of foreign aided projects. The project financial statements, Special Accounts and
SOEs of both DAE and HORTEX will be audited by C&AG as per International Standards on Auditing. Since
HORTEX is a non-profit company registered under the Companies Act 1994, it is required to prepare accounts
on an accrual basis. It is also required under this Act, in addition to the C&AG audit, to have the accounts
audited by a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh holding a practice certificate.
The auditors and their TOR shall be acceptable to IDA and reflected in the PIP. The audit reports will be
submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
e) Action Plan for Improvement of Financial Management Capacity: As indicated above, both DAE and
HORTEX have adequate system for project monitoring but not adequate to introduce Project Management
Report (PMR) based disbursement. Further, the accounts of DAE and HORTEX are currently maintained
manually and are not suitable to generate accurate PMRs in a timely manner. A time bound action plan for
strengthening the financial management capacity of both the organizations has been agreed with GOB and
reflected in the PIP, and is provided below. Progress in implementation of the action plan will be closely
monitored and, subject to satisfactory progress, PMR based disbursements will be introduced by January 1,
2001 and the existing disbursement system will continue till such date.



Page 50
Issue/Problem                          Remedial Action
1. Hortex Foundation requires an  *  The consultant for preparing the Accounts and
Accounts and Operational       Operational Manual will be appointed by October 31,
Manual                         1999 and the manual will be prepared by January 31,
2000, tested by March 31, 2000.
2. Computerization of the      *  HORTEX will procure necessary hardware and
Accounting Systems of          software by March 31, 2000 to computerize its
HORTEX and DAE.                accounting and reporting systems.
*  Complete the Computerization of accounting and
reporting systems of HORTEX by June 30, 2000.
*  RIBEC will complete the computerization of the
accounting system of DAE by June 30, 2000.
3. Training of Staff
*  HORTEX will require training  *  Training will be provided to financial management
in financial management and    staff of HORTEX by April 30, 2000.
computerized accounting
system.
*  Training of DAE staff in    *  DFID will provide technical assistance under the
financial management and       project for training in financial management and
computerized accounting        computerized accounting system. The initial phase
system                         of the training will be completed by April 30, 2000.
4. Project Management Reports   Project Management Reports will be as provided in the
Project Implementation Plans.
5. Design Output Monitoring    Outputs Monitoring Reports will be designed by
Reports and submit the same to HORTEX and DAE in consultation with IDA and submit
IDA                         the same to IDA from the quarter ending June 30, 2000.
6. Project Audits              The TOR of the auditors will be as provided in the
Project Implementation Plans.
Closing Date:       03/31/2003



Page 51
Annex 7
Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                         Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$100,000        US$125,000
B. Project Schedule                                Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                  8
First Bank mission (identification)              03/20/1998             03/20/199.8
Appraisal mission departure                                             11/10/1998
Negotiations                                       01/1999               07/25/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                      04/1999               11/30/99
Prepared by: DAE, HORTEX
Preparation assistance: DFID, FAO, Credit 2393-BD (Technical Assistance VI)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialy
H. P. Gassner                  Principal Operations Officer (Task Leader)
M. A. Ghani                              Irrigation Engineer
T. Islam                                  Agriculturist
J. Weijenberg                           Principal Agriculturist
H. Eisa                              Principal Agriculturist
W. Huq                                 Operations Officer
R. Epworth                                Sr. Agriculturist
M. Hoque                          Financial Management Specialist
Z. Islam                             Procurement Specialist



Page 52
Annex 8
Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plans
1. DAE - May 19,1999
2. HORTEX - May 19, 1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Mission Aide Memoires
2. Minute of Informal PAD Review Meeting
3. Peer Review Comments
4. Concept Memorandum
5. Operations Committee Virtual Review Comments
C. Other
1.            May 1999 exchange of letters between GOB and DFID agreeing to DFID financing
of ASIRP and attached DFID Project memorandum, ASIRP, dated 30 January 1999.
2.            Agreement TCP/BGD/8928 (D) between GOB and FAO, re On-Farm Water
Management Pilot Programme in support of SPFS.
3. MOA        New Agricultural Extension Policy, 1996.
4. DAE        Project Concept Paper, ASIRP, September 1998.
5. DAE        Project Proforma for ASIRP, DAE component, May 1999.
6. HORTEX    Report on Market Intelligence Mission to Middle East and Europe,
October/November 1997.
7. HORTEX    Proposed Three Year Business Plan, 30 June 1998.
8 HORTEX    Production and Export Activities During 1998 - 99.
9. HORTEX    Project Proforma for ASIRP, Horticultural Development Component, May 1999.
10. FAO        Working Papers on:
(a) Soil Testing and Fertility Management on Farm Level.
(b) Crop Yield Forecasting and Agrometeorological Advisory Services to
Farmers.
(c) On-Farm Water Management Pilot Programme in Bangladesh.
(d) South-South Cooperation Formulation Mission Report.
11. FAO        Draft Agreements between GOB and FAO concerning carrying out of consultants
services financed by IDA
(a) Soil Testing and Fertility Management Project., UTF/BGD/029/BGD.
(b) Crop Yield Forecasting and Agrometeorology, UTF/BGD/030/BGD.
12. UGL        Evaluation Mission, Agricultural Support Services Project, Final Report, Volumes I
& II, under assignment by UK DFID, April 1998.



Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Bangladesh
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Jul-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                  disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 138
Active Projects
BD-PE-37294      1999   GOD                               ROAD REH. MAINT. III                     0.00      273.00         0.00             263.96        5.07         0.00
BD-PE-41887      1999   GOB                              MUNICIPAL SERVICES                        0.00      138.60         0.00             133.82      138.88         0.00
BD-PE-49790     1999   GOB                               EXPORT DIVERSIF.                          0.00       32.00         0.00              31.58        0.00         0.00
BD-PE-50745     1999   GOB                               ARSENIC CONTROL                           0.00       32.40         0.00              31.19        3.45         0.00
BD-PE-9524      1999   GOB                                DHAKA URB TRANSPORT                      0.00      177.00         0.00             173.03        7.94         0.00
BD-PE-37857      1998   GOB                               HEALTH AND POP PROGRAM                   0.00      250.00         0.00             173.00      -34.77         0.00
BD-PE-40713      1998   GOB                               SILK DEV PILOT PROJ.                     0.00       11.35         0.00              10.22        3.46         0.00
BD-PE-44789     1998   GOB                                PRIV SEC INFR DEVT                       0.00      235.00         0.00             224.84       68.80         -.80
BD-PE-9550      1998   GOB                                PRIMARY EDUC DEV                         0.00      150.00         0.00             143.42       21.50         0.00
BD-PE-40985      1997   GOB                               POVERTY ALLEVIATION                      0.00      105.00         0.00              26.61       -4.09         0.00
BD-PE-9482       1997   GOB/DWASA                         DHAKA WATER/SAN. IV                      0.00       80.30         0.00              60.54       29.15         0.00
BD-PE-9518      1997   GOB                                2ND RURAL RDS & MRKT                     0.00      153.00         0.00              93.08        6.42        18.09
BD-PE-9484      1996   GOB                               AG. RES. MANAGEMENT                       0.00       50.00         0.00              31.53       26.80         0.00
BD-PE-9545      1996   GOB                               RIVER BANK PROTECTIO                      0.00      166.90         0.00              48.85       26.24        14.54
BD-PE-9549      1996   GOB                               COASTAL EMBANKMENT R                      0.00       69.50         0.00              19.56        6.66         4.14
BD-PE-9560      1996   GOB                               NON-FORMAL EDUCATION                      0.00       10.50         0.00               7.14        2.18         0.00
BD-PE-9496       1995   GOB                               NUTRITION                                0.00       59.80         0.00              40.05       17.29         0.00
BD-PE-9533       1995   GOB                               GAS INFRASTRUCTURE                       0.00      120.80         0.00              57.90       53.46        54.69
BD-PE-9465      1994   GOB                                2ND ROAD REHAB & MAI                     0.00      226.80         0.00              84.35       -5.51         0.00
BD-PE-9555      1993   GOB                                FEMALE SECONDARY SCH                     0.00       68.00         0.00              20.38       17.13        11.59
BD-PE-9470       1992   GOB                               FOREST RESOURCES MGM                     0.00       49.60         3.32              11.67       12.65         3.55
BD-PE-9540       1991   GOB                               INLAND WATER TRANSP                      0.00       51.25         0.00              21.44       17.39         1.70
BD-PE-9542       1990   GOB                               RURAL ELECTRIF. III                      0.00      105.00         0.00              10.70        2.77         0.00
Total                                                                                              0.00   2,615.80          3.32           1,718.86      422.87       107.50
0
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total                                                                                      (D
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  808.90            5,718.30            6,527.20
of which has been repaid:                   0.00              431.19              431.19
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               2,612.48             5,023.36            7,635.84                                                                                     a
Amount sold                                        0.00                  .37                 .37
Of which repaid               :                0.00                  .37                 .37
Total Undisbursed                             1,718.86                 7.78            1,726.64
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99.



Page 54
Schedule D
BANGLADESH
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-May-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1980                   IPDC                     0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.05    0.00    0.00
1985/95                IDLC                     0.00     .15    0.00    0.00    0.00       .15    0.00    0.00
1991                   Dynamic Textile          1.86    0.00    0.00     1.48     1.86    0.00    0.00    1.48
1996                   ICT-B                   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   ICT-W                    0.00     .38    0.00    0.00    0.00       .01    0.00    0.00
1997                   DBH                      0.00      .65    0.00    0.00    0.00      .65    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                    16.86    2.23    0.00     1.48     1.86    1.86    0.00    1.48
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   EqUitY   QUaSi  Partic
1998                   GRAMEENPHONE            20.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
1998                   IPDC H                  10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   JALALABAD                0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   KHULNA                  22.50    3.30    0.00   29.40
1998                   LAFARGE SURMA           35.00    10.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Comnnitment:          87.50   30.80    0.00   29.40



Page 55
Annex 10
Bangladesh at a glance                                                                7/6/99
POVERTY and SOCiAL                                           South      Low                      - 
Bangladesh      Asia  Income        Development diamond'
199S
Population. mid-year (nillions)                     12S.6     1,305    3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method US$)                    350       430       520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     44.0      5S5      1,844
Average annual growth, 19924i 8
Population (%°)                                       1.6       18        1.7     G
Labor force (%)                                       21        2.3       1.9     GNP                             Gross
Most rrent estimate (latest year available, 199248)                               capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty fine)  36                         c                             n
Urban population (% of total population)              20        27        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      58        62        63
tnfant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              75        77        69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            68        53                         Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                84        S1        74
Illiteracy (1/o of population age 15*)                62        49        32
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  96       100       108            -8angladesh
Male                                                93       109       113                  Low-income group
Female                                             100        90       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS arnd LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987       1987     1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                           9.5    23.8       41.0      42.3
Gross domestic investment/GOP               17,0    19.0       21.6      22.4                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            5.2      5.5      12.4      13.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  11.5    10.4       15.3      17.3
Gross national savings/GDP                  118.    12.6       194       21.2
Curent account balance/GDP                  -1.8    -4.1       -2.2      -1 2     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                        0.3      0.6       0.4       0.4     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                              28.4    4Z7        36.9      36.6      a                          I
Total debt service/exports                  27.8    28.0       10.6       9.3
Present value of debt/GDP                      -               21.1
Present value of debt/exports                                 130.1
Indebtedness
1977t-87  1988.9S    1097     1998   199943
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 5.0      4.7      5.4       5.0       5.5            -Bangladesh
GNP per capita                      2.6      3.1      3.8       4,2       3.9                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       4.9    14A4    14.5        14.3       9.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997     1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 37.5    31.3       23.1      22.4
Industry                                    25.0    22.2       27.1      28.2    lo
Manufactunng                              18.5    15.2       17.3      18.3     s
Services                                    37.5    46.5       49.8      49.4
Private consumption                         87.0    86.4       80.1      78.3           93   94   95   9s   97   9a
General government consumption               1.4      3.2       4.6       4.4              -     GD      --*GDP
Imports of goods and services               10.7    14.1       18.7      19.0
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growlh)
Agriculture                                  3.6      2.6       6.1       3.0    60
Industry                                     4.3      6.9       5.6       8.3    4
Manufacturing                              2.9      7.0       6.2       9.2
Services                                     6.4      4.7       4.8       4.2    20
Private consumpton                           5.3      4.4       2.4       1.6     0
General govemment consumption                5.3      5.9       6.0      -0.3           93   2    95   95   97   98
Gross domestic investment                    4.4      6.0      10.0      11.2   -20
Imports of goods and services                6.6    10.5        2.0       0.6            -Exports    -        lmports
Gross national product                       5.2      4.8       5.5       5.9
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-roup average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 56
Bangladesh
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997     1998       Inflation (N)
Domestic prices 
(% change)                                                                           10 T
Consumer prces                                    .        .        2.5       7.0
Implicit GDP deflator                          -2.1     11.0        0.9       4.4     s
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   0
Current revenue                                  ..      8.7        9.3       9.7             93    94    95    93    97   55
Current budget balance                           ..       ..        2.2       2.2              -GDP deflator      C Pi
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..       ..       -4.3      -4.2
TRADE
(UJS$ millions)                               1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS mlilIons)
Total exports (fob)                              ..   1,074       4,427    5,172      8000
Jutegoods                                       ..     104        116       108         T
Leather and leather products                   ..      135        196       190     6,00*
Manufactures                                    -      700      3,835     4,615
Total imports (cif)                              .    2,620       7,120     7,525     4   t01
Food                                            ..     413        197      369      2.000
Fuel and energy                                        230       361        295
Capital goods                                  ..      856      2,000     2,072                 93 9    3    4
Export price index (1995=100)                     .      54        103       111
Import pnce index (1995=100)                     ..      79        100        98                isExports      U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..       68       103       114
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                  464    1,301      5,083     5,879      0             °  .n  
Imports of goods and services                  932    2,876      7,655     8,049          5*m
Resource balance                              -469   -1,576      -2,572    -2,170     -1       *          *           * 
Net income                                      -31     -122      -107      -100      -2                  *           U
Netcurrenttransfers                            325      731       1,770     1,750
Current account balance                       -174      -966      -909      -520
-4-
Financing items (net)                          305    1,169        589       651
Changes in net reserves                        -130     -203       320      -131      -5 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..       ..    1,719       1,739
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)               15.5     30.6       42.7      45.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(US$ mdilions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          2,518   10,149     15,125    15,467
IBRD                                          55       70         38        34                 F 130 G:175 A 34
IDA                                          505    2,985      5,701     6,014
Total debt service                             148      547        705       696          E:4,70
IBRD                                           3        5          7         7                                     B ,1
IDA                                            4       35         96       105
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                0      662        736       589
Official credtors                            274      774        326       442
Private creditors                             -1        1        -28        15
Foreign investment                             0        2       -116       252               0D:4,132           C272
World Bank program
Commitments                                  202      415        460       646      A - IBRD                      E - Bslateral
Disbursements                                 88      348        299       373      B- IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                           0        9         59        65      0 c- IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                     88      339        241       308
Interest payments                              7       31         44        47
Net transfers                                 81      308        196       261
Development Economics                                                                                                     7/6199



MAP SECTION






Iiq                                          910.                                                                                            92.
Ij                                             INDIA
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT
SERVICES PROJECT
Nb "I
J.,&.k.
-26'                                                                                                                                                                                                                          26-
AgricA.wl Training Institutes                                    Upazila Hecdq-t.rs
CERDI                                                            Zil. Headquarters
Bangladesh AgricAurol Unier,ity                                 National Capital
t                                                                                                                                     Upozila Boundaries
Rq,                                                                                                          Zila Boundaries
Int.-ti.r.1 Boundaries
25'
-25'                                                                                                              F,, P"'
P.
M,kl  h                                                D
b."      Nh.l
14.k
hlb-                      K
K..
A                                   W-
%,3.,  T-il
pq 'SI_p.,
Kr                                          -7
M
r                            G-d.TF                                                                                                                           K-
j1hp-                                                                                                   Sr-,.
Er. gr..                                            0. id...                    Kit d,                 k
K
K.r,,.,, Sibp,'
c,4                                                                                                          2A
24'                                                                                                                                                  R -rn
I,biI
P"                                                                                                                                        I   N               D       I   A
s ,y              4-1    Dhaka
c         H.,                          Ar
N        "T,
F.r Rl-G                          l,rI
W
Us-
6,6
'RI- Akdp,,                                                                                      P
LA   r            R.I.
INDIA                                                                                           Cl
K.Rc
'V"                  23
--V
Kh
kl.l
N.Y.;
-22'                                                                                                                                                                                 m            I
K.Nbdb
.4-  )ZHV
-J)        INDIA                     MYANMAR
0   10  2p                   40:  56MILES                                                                                            MYANMAR
2                             KILOMETERS
SRI LAWA
0-
91



