                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 26735

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-32840)

                                           ON A

                                          CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.8 MILLION
                              (US$5.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                           PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                          FOR A

            AGRICULTURAL SERVICES INNOVATION AND REFORM PROJECT




                                     September 22, 2003




Rural Development Sector Unit
Bangladesh Country Office
South Asia Regional Office

                                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                        (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                       Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk.)
             At Appariasal (August 1999): Tk.1.0 = US$ 0.21
                                            US$ 1.00 = Tk. 58.40
                              At ICR (October 2003): Tk.1.0 =US$0.017
                                             FISCAL YEAR
                                             July 1  June 30

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASRIP    Agricultural Services Innovation and        IDA      International Development Association
             Reform Project                          IEA      Integrated Extension Approach
ASSP     Agriculture Support Services Project        LIL      Learning and Innovation Loan
BMD      Bangladesh Meteorology Department           NAEP     New Agriculture Extension Policy
BBS      Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics             NGO      Non-Government Organization
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                 NPIF     National Partnership Initiative Fund
CMFG     Crop Monitoring and Forecasting Group       MAA      Memorandum and Articles of Associtation
CYFA     Crop Yield Forecasting and                  MOA      Ministry of Agriculture
             Agrometeorology                         MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
DAE      Department of Agricultural Extension        MTR      Mid-term Review
DCA      Development Credit Agreement                NPIF     National Partnership Initiative Fund
DFID     Department for International                PAD      Project Appraisal Document
Development                                          SPFS     Special Program for Food Security
DFIP     District Partnership Initiatives Fund       TA       Technical Assistance
ESP      Extension Service Provider                  UAECC Upazila Agriculture Extension
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization                        Coordination Comittee
             of the United Nations                   UAO      Upazila Agriculture Officer
FPMU     Food Planning and Monitoring Unit           UPIF     Upazila Partnership Initiative Fund
GOB      Government of Bangladesh                    UTF      Unilateral Trust Fund
HORTEX Horticulture Export Development               BWDB     Bangladesh Water Development Board
             Foundation
ICR      Implementation Completion Report



                                      Vice President:   Praful C. Patel
                       Country Manager/Director:        Christine I. Wallich
                         Sector Manager/Director:       Gajanand Pathamanathan/Constance A. Bernard
               Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Wahida Huq

                                       BANGLADESH
                    Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              10
6. Sustainability                                                                  12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 14
9. Partner Comments                                                                15
10. Additional Information                                                         15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              25
Annex 8. Comments of Ministry of Agriculture on the Draft ICR                      39

Map : IBRD22658 Bangladesh Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project

Project ID: P058468                                                      Project Name: Agricultural Services Innovation &
                                                                         Reform
Team Leader: Wahida Huq                                                  TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: September 22, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Agricultural Services Innovation & Reform                L/C/TF Number: IDA-32840
   Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                                         Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural marketing and trade (48%); Agricultural extension and
                            research (40%); Central government administration (6%); Irrigation
                            and drainage (6%)
                  Theme: Rural policies and institutions (P); Export development and
                            competitiveness (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                            Technology diffusion (S); Water resource management (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    11/06/1998                                        Effective: 12/21/1999              12/21/1999
   Appraisal:    11/09/1998                                            MTR:                           05/13/2001
    Approval:    09/14/1999                                         Closing: 03/31/2003               03/31/2003

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Bangladesh/Department of Agriculture Extension and Horticulture
                                           Export Development Foundation
                      Other Partners:      DFID and FAO

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Christine I. Wallich                           Frederick T. Temple
Sector Manager:                 Gajan Pathmanathan                             Ridwan Ali
Team Leader at ICR:             Wahida Huq                                     Henry P. Gassner and Tajul Islam
ICR Primary Author:             Wahida Huq (SASRD) and
                                Charles Bevan (FAO/CP)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:U

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

         The objective of this Learning and Innovative Loan (LIL) project was to test and refine various
agricultural technology transfer programs designed to foster more demand driven and locally responsive
extension techniques. Specifically the project aimed to: (i) provide support through Horticulture Export
Development Foundation (HORTEX) to pioneer horticultural production and export activities; (ii) test and
develop methods for improving partnership programs between the Department of Agricultural Extension
(DAE) and other extension providers (NGOs or private entrepreneurs) in developing and conveying
appropriate extension messages; and (iii) carry out small pilot and demonstration programs under the FAO
sponsored Special Program for Food Security (SPFS), of possible measures, linked, to a demand-driven
extension service, for improving production and food security. The project implementation period was
three years.

         The key indicators identified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) were:

                l Expansion of horticultural exports;
                l Increased ability of DAE and NGOs to work effectively in introducing improved
                     technology, reaching the poor and female farmers;
                l Improved understanding of appropriate techniques in pilot program.

         Agriculture dominates the economy of Bangladesh, generating about one-third of GDP. Faster
agriculture growth and rural development are critical in Bangladesh, with more than 90 percent of the poor
living in rural areas. The Agriculture Support Services Project (Credit 2233-BD) financed by IDA (until
June 1998) and UK Department for International Development (DFID) (until June 1999) had fostered
significant progress in improving extension services.       This included improved targeting of extension
services. In 1996, Government of Bangladesh (GOB) adopted a New Agricultural Extension Policy
(NAEP) which emphasized bottom-up participatory appraisal of farmers' extension needs and
decentralized design of extension programs to reflect the needs of local farming community. It also
includes strengthened partnerships with NGOs and other Government organizations. While NAEP made a
promising start, implementation was fragile.        Extension staff needed training in participatory needs
assessment. Techniques needed to be tested and refined. Models on how best to work with NGOs and
government departments in a decentralized manner needed to be developed and tested. In 1993, at the
initiative of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), HORTEX            was established to promote exports of
non-traditional horticultural produce and after initial disappointing performance, it started to make
progress from mid 1997. However, further testing and development was needed on how best to provide the
required support to encourage horticultural export initiatives.

Assessment of Objectives:

         The project objectives addressed the recognized need to intensify and diversify crop production in
Bangladesh, and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of extension provision.            The objectives
conformed with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS Report No. 17453-BD) which specifically
identified improved dissemination of agriculture technology, decentralization and promotion of
diversification to higher value commodities with good external market prospects.




                                                      - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

         The project's development objectives were not revised during project implementation period.

3.3 Original Components:

         The project had three components: (a) Provision of Support through HORTEX; (b) Strengthening
Implementation of the NAEP; and (c) Small-scale Pilot Trials and Demonstrations

         (a)    Provision of Support through HORTEX (US$2.7 million including US$2.4M from IDA;
US$0.2M from GOB; and US$0.1M from potential beneficiaries);

         The support was provided through HORTEX to pioneer horticultural production and export
activities. According to the PAD, the project would support HORTEX to provide catalytic technical
services and logistical support to encourage development of horticultural exports. The project would
support HORTEX to identify market opportunities and potential importers, and provide training and
assistance in production, grading, packaging, quality control and export logistics. HORTEX would make
limited investment in shared services (refrigerated vehicles and perhaps improvements in available
cold-storage facilities at the airport). HORTEX was to collect fees from the second year for its technical
services, provide inputs at cost, plus a service charge for a shared logistical services at a rate that would
cover costs once reasonable capacity utilization rates have been achieved.

         (b)    Strengthening Implementation of the NAEP (US$9.9 million which included US$1.7
million from IDA; US$6.9 million from DFID and US$1.3 million from GOB).

         The component was to support learning and innovation aspects for extension partnership programs
among DAE and other extension providers, at three levels - Upazila (lowest level of administration),
District and National.    The project activities included the development of Guidelines for the Award and
Administration of Grant Funds, and the award of grants by means of a competitive selection process. The
grant was categorized as:

                l Upazila Partnership Initiative Funds (UPIF) which were provided as grants to support
                     low cost partnership activities in line with NAEP criteria. Of the total estimated
                     amount of US$2.2M, IDA and GOB were to equally finance this activity.

                l District Partnership Initiative Funds (DPIF) in 12 selected districts were to be
                     provided on a competitive basis to fund partnership proposals submitted by Upazila
                     Agriculture Extension Coordination Committee (UAECC) or a group of UAECC.
                     IDA financed 3 districts while 9 are funded by DFID. Of the estimated total amount of
                     US$2.5M, the contribution of IDA was estimated to be US$0.6M.

                l National Partnership Initiative Fund (NPIF) was to be financed entirely by DFID.


         A parallel program financed by DFID supported the training, institutional development and
strengthening financial management capacity of Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).




                                                     - 3 -

         (c)       Small-scale Pilot Trials and Demonstrations (US$1.8million of which US$0.9 million
from IDA, US$0.53 million from FAO; US$0.27 million from GOB; and US$0.1 million from NGOs and
beneficiaries).

         This component consisted of three sub-components:

                 l On-Farm Water Management, designed to demonstrate the technical and financial
                      benefits to farmers of more efficient use irrigation equipment and water;

                 l Village Level Soil Fertility Management, designed to test low cost soil testing
                      techniques and to help farmers use the result to make timely decisions about fertilizer
                      management; and

                 l Crop Yield Forecasting and Weather Advice to Farmers, aimed at providing a
                      reliable estimate of national crop (cereal) production based on the production season
                      weather patterns, and the provision of weather forecast to farmers.

Assessment of the Project Design

         The three separate components of the project reflected some of the key sector issues. These were:
need for improved dissemination of agriculture technology; desirability of decentralization to increase local
involvement in design/operation of programs; desirability and difficulty of promoting diversification to high
value commodities with good external market prospects; and importance of measures to foster
improvements in on-farm water management, soil fertility management and crop yield forecasting.

         In January 1997, government approved a strategy for the implementation of the NAEP which
called for the establishment of a policy committee and number of committees at different administrative
levels. A key element of the new strategy is the devolution of responsibility for determining and planning
extension programs to the newly established the UAECC, including local representatives from DAE,
NGOs, local government, and other government agencies. The focus on devolution in the new strategy
needed to be tested. Both IDA and DFID were satisfied with the progress of reforms initiated in the latter
part of the previous project (ASSP) and was willing to support the government in further consolidation of
the reforms. Since the Bank introduced a new lending instrument, LIL, it was considered appropriate that
the learning and innovation aspects for extension partnership programs among NGOs, DAE and other
government agencies at the upazila level are financed by IDA and at other levels in partnership with DFID.
In addition, DFID was willing to continue support to DAE in the consolidation of the reforms on
institutional development and financial management of DAE.

         In the last few months of the ASSP, HORTEX started to make good progress and the Government
wanted to extend the closing date of the project by two years. Since the ASSP would not meet the criteria
for extension of closing date, but at the same time, HORTEX required continued support for few more
years, it was agreed that activities of HORTEX would be included in the LIL.

         Based upon a 1997 Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the World Bank President
and the FAO Director- General, GOB requested participation in pilot phase activities under FAO's SPFS in
Low Income Deficit Countries, and requested IDA financing to complement FAO support for small-scale
pilot projects under this project.




                                                     - 4 -

         The multi-donor support to DAE under this project had positive outcomes. The DFID supported
technical assistance team supported DAE in developing a mechanism for partnership initiative program
and piloting various Integrated Extension Approach (IEA) models which helped to support the activities
funded by IDA. There are no indications of any synergy between the support to HORTEX, three pilots and
the overall support to DAE provided under this project.

         The components of the project were however appropriate and realistic in relation to the project
objectives. The design of HORTEX and NAEP was largely based on, or developed from, initiatives that
had demonstrated some merit in other programs. The project design attempted to address some of the
generic issues of inter-agency cooperation and technical assistance but had limited success.

         With respect to HORTEX, an important lesson from the previous project, Agriculture Support
Services Project (ASSP), was not fully considered. The ICR (Report No. 18757) for the ASSP highlighted
the difficulties in recovering costs of services provided by HORTEX. This project required that HORTEX
charge for its services and become financially sustainable. This objective was not achieved. The design
overlooked that, for HORTEX to levy service fee, it has to be legislated or, agreed collectively by a very
strong exporter organization. HORTEX is not yet legislated and it is not likely that a strong exporter
organization will emerge soon since Bangladesh is still at a nascent stage of horticultural export
development. It would have been useful to develop a realistic time-frame for government support for
promotion of horticulture export diversification and some criteria to exit, based on lessons from related
experiences from other countries.

         The PAD identified past difficulties in securing institutional cooperation between the MOA,
Ministry of Defense (MOD) and Bangladesh Meteorological Department (BMD) and the subsequent failure
to establish an effective early warning system for crop production. To address this issue, Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) was executed between MOA/DAE and MOD/BMD which helped to foster better
cooperation. However, such MOUs were also needed to secure improved cooperation from Ministry of
Food (MOF), Food Policy and Monitoring Unit (FPMU), and Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS) as
these organizations were involved in the implementation of the pilot project on Crop Yield Forecasting and
Agrometeorology.

         For a LIL operation, the design of the small scale pilots was complex both in terms of the technical
expertise (national and international) requirement and the number of cooperating agencies involved. Given
the known difficulties associated with retaining trained staff and of securing inter-agency cooperation in
Bangladesh, it might have been better to have been less ambitious about these pilots.

         In view of the innovative nature of many of the project interventions, the project had provisions for
a considerable amount of Technical Assistance (TA), both international and national. The TA for
HORTEX was          not predetermined which was appropriate, and IDA funds were provided to enable
HORTEX to hire expertise as and when needed within a specified budget. The bulk of the TA for the
NAEP strengthening was provided as a grant by DFID through the parallel intervention to strengthen
extension management. The specific inputs were predetermined by DFID. Detailed Terms of Reference for
the key inputs under the pilot programs were prepared by FAO. With hindsight it is clear that too much
emphasis was placed on international TA. Two main problems appear to have resulted. The first was the
difficulty in securing the timely availability of competent experts. The second was a tendency for the
implementing agencies to use the TA to execute functions rather than as advisors or trainers. There
appears to have been little transfer of knowledge or expertise as a result of the TA. These problems are
however generic and affects most projects.




                                                      - 5 -

3.4 Revised Components:

         There were no major changes to the project components at the time of the Mid-Term Review
(MTR). However the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended in September 2002 to make
provision, for financing, using unallocated credit proceeds a fourth component or activity ­ Monitoring and
Evaluation - that had not been funded under the original DCA. There were also some minor changes to the
allocation of resources under the HORTEX component including provision for an increase in funding of
consultant services.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

         This is rated as satisfactory based on the criteria used by Quality Assurance Group (QAG) for
assessing Quality at Entry. These criteria include project concept, objective and approach, technical and
economic analysis, social and stakeholders analysis, institutional aspects, readiness for implementation and
risks and sustainability.

         (a)      Concept, Objective and Approach.       The project concept was sound and relevant. The
NAEP's participatory approach to extension represented a paradigm shift in extension delivery, and
thinking of the extension workers, researchers and policy makers required to be geared towards this
approach through pilot demonstrations. The partnership funds was a new concept appropriate for testing
but the design did not consider leveraging funds from other sources to sustain this approach should it be
successful. One possible source could be the block allocation provided by the government to the upazilas.
The overall concept that HORTEX was to be a catalyst for further export development was appropriate.
In the previous project, HORTEX developed a successful partnership with a large NGO. Contract farming
system for French beans was well established; quality control measures dealing with production, grading,
and packaging were in place; and the main elements of cool chain management were understood. It was
appropriate for HORTEX to focus on catalytic technical services combined with limited investment in
shared services. The inclusion of the small scale pilot trials and demonstrations was requested by the
GOB. The objectives were also aligned with the principals of a LIL which are predicated on testing and
refining interventions that have shown promise, but needed further development. However, the project
performance indicators (Annex 1 of PAD) were suited to a more conventional investment project rather
than a LIL. In particular, the indicators should have focused more on processes and less on quantitative
targets.

         (b)      Technical and Economic Analysis. The components to support NAEP and HORTEX
were developed from the lessons of earlier support service projects, and the recognized need for more time
to fully test and develop promising innovative new initiatives. They were prepared by Bank staff who had
been involved in the implementation of the earlier support service project, and who knew the country and
the sector well, but had limited understanding of the agribusiness sector. These pilot sub-components were
prepared under the supervision of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program. No economic analysis was
considered necessary as this was a LIL operation supporting the implementation of pilot activities.

         (c)      Social and Stakeholders Analysis. The design of all three components involved extensive
discussions with the implementing agencies and senior staff of the MOA, and other participating
stakeholders.   With respect to the design of HORTEX, consultations were mostly with NGOs.                In
hindsight, the existing weaknesses of HORTEX could have been addressed better had there been more
interactions with the existing network of Bangladesh Fruit, Vegetable and Allied Products Exporters
Association which has more than 35 active members.




                                                     - 6 -

         (d)      Institutional Aspects.   The institutional mechanisms for developing DAE's capacity to
implement the NAEP was satisfactory.            The not-for-profit company structure of HORTEX was
appropriate to carry out its mandate. However, the ex-officio provision for the chairperson (Secretary of
the MOA) of HORTEX could have been revised to provide greater autonomy for the organization. This
provision has been changed when the Memorandum and Articles of Association (MAA) of HORTEX
Foundation, was revised on March 30, 2003 just one day before the Credit closing date. The revised
MAA has the following provision: "The Chairman of the Foundation shall be elected amongst the members
of the Governing Body."

         (e)      Readiness for Implementation. Following discussions with the GOB in February 1998 a
draft PAD was prepared, and a concept memorandum, was submitted to the Regional Vice President
(RVP) for approval in November 1998. This outlined the background and relevance of using a LIL, and
the selection of components.      Delays between the preparation of the draft PAD and the subsequent
appraisal mission in November 1998 arose largely from the catastrophic floods in the summer of 1998,
(that resulted in the GOB and donors concentrating their efforts on short term emergency operations), and
the difficulties of coordinating the interests and staff availability of the three participating donors (IDA,
DFID and FAO).

         (f)      Risks and Sustainability. Overall, the risks were correctly identified in the project. The
exception was the institutional risks associated with the structure of HORTEX were not fully addressed.
The ICR for ASSP indicated that there had been too much influence of the MOA in the operations of
HORTEX thus at times, compromising its autonomy in the selection and appointment of senior staff.
Similar problems manifest during ASIRP, with the appointment of HORTEX staff solely recruited from
Government agencies.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

         Overall the outcome is rated as satisfactory. Since this was a LIL project, the overall assessment
of its achievements is measured on the basis of learning and innovation aspects of the project.

         The project has tested and refined various agricultural technology transfer programs designed to
foster more demand driven and locally responsive extension techniques. There are encouraging signs that
exporters of horticultural products now have a better understanding of the need for quality and reliability in
supply, and this can partly be attributed to the work done by HORTEX. The implementation experience
with HORTEX has highlighted the challenges of establishing a service organization on cost recovery basis.


         The project has helped to improve the ability of DAE and NGOs to work effectively in a limited
way at the upazila level. The UPIF has shown some promise in supporting low-cost partnerships between
DAE and NGOs. In contrast, the District and National Partnership Initiative Programs proved too difficult
to administer, and failed to bring about the cooperative provision of extension services, as envisaged.

         The results of the three small scale pilots are mixed. The On-Farm Water Management trials have
successfully demonstrated the benefits of more efficient use of irrigation water. The implementation of the
Soil Testing and Fertility Management pilot project has tested low cost soil testing techniques and helped
the farmers to adopt better fertilizer practices. The pilot project, implemented in partnership with the
Bangladesh Fertilizer Association, demonstrated that farmers would be willing to pay for soil testing



                                                      - 7 -

services provided that the net incremental benefit (after paying for fertilizer cost only) is twice the cost of
intervention. The Crop Yield Forecasting and Agrometeorology pilot sub-project developed a methodology
for crop yield for crop yield forecasting and weather advice to farmers but could not test the value of the
intervention with end users such as farmers or FPMU.

         The strategy for the implementation of NAEP addresses gender equity in terms of extension service
delivery and training. In the UPIF, the women groups of the partner NGOs had access to the funds but the
lack of female extension workers possibly constrained women to get better access to project services. In the
special pilot programs, women's issues have been recognized in the On-Farm Water Management and Soil
Testing and Fertility Management pilot projects. Under the On farm Water Management pilots, women
farmers received training in construction of irrigation channel, improved crop cultivation techniques
including seed-bed preparation, row planting, fertilizer application, preparation of organic manure,
vegetable cultivation, seed preservation and integrated pest management. The participation of the women
farmers in the soil fertility testing was not significant. Under the HORTEX component, involvement of
women is observed in the sorting and packaging centers for French beans which are exported. In these
centers women have been trained in grading, sorting and cleaning of vegetables before packaging. Most of
these women are from female headed households and/or from poor households.

4.2 Outputs by components:

         (a)       Provision of Support through HORTEX to pioneer horticultural production and
export activities.

         The overall achievement of this component is considered to be satisfactory.            Based on the
achievement of output targets, HORTEX has facilitated the increase in the volume of product exported
during the project period. Against the export target (at appraisal) of 535 tons, the actual achievement was
1,164 tons. In the last year of the project (FY2001), HORTEX-facilitated export was 3% of the total
horticulture exports from Bangladesh. A number of private companies also reported improvements in their
businesses following advice received from HORTEX and, the rental of the HORTEX owned refrigerated
trucks, albeit at subsidized rates, provided useful service to the exporters. The general consensus is that
HORTEX has contributed to a better understanding of production parameters, such as varietal selection,
time and method of crop production, post harvest grading, packing and chilling.

         It has facilitated the increased diversification of traditional exports with improved quality and
post-harvest handling, and improved packaging. Floriculture has been a particular focus, and there are
encouraging signs for the future. A major shortcoming of HORTEX is the lack of institutional knowledge
about markets and marketing and these are vital for exporters.

         The PAD considered that the main objective of HORTEX was to demonstrate the possibilities of
expanding and diversifying horticulture exports from Bangladesh and for it to play a facilitating and
promotional role. At the same time, it was envisaged that HORTEX would apply a service charge and
within eight years of operation, it would be able to become financially sustainable. During implementation,
HORTEX focused more on its developmental role thus promoting the use of contract farming, ensuring
quality, proper packaging and cool chain management. There was less emphasis on cost recovery for
services rendered by HORTEX. Since the project was a learning and innovation operation, major focus on
promotional/ development aspects appear to be justified.

         (b)       Strengthening Implementation of NAEP. The overall assessment of the IDA funded
activities of this component is generally satisfactory.



                                                     - 8 -

          The UPIF system worked reasonably well. The partnership activities were coordinated through the
UAECC and generally complied with the revised extension approach within the framework of NAEP. The
UPIF has made a modest impact in promoting local networking and collaboration of the ESPs and
facilitating participatory approach of the farmers' needs assessment, problem identification, program
development, prioritization and implementation. Funds were received, more or less at quarterly intervals,
and were allocated for partnership activities by the UAECC according to predetermined procedures. The
UPIF financed mainly purchase of inputs (e.g. chicks, saplings of fruit trees) for income generating
activities with extension advice. There were however no evidence of UPIF inducing innovative approaches
to extension methodologies in the partnerships. Overall IDA disbursement for this activity was about 91.3
percent. There was a shortage of counterpart funds in the last months of the project. As a result full
utilization of IDA credit for this activity could not be achieved. Some difficulties were also reported with
the fund release procedure. IDA funds were, as envisaged, released regularly into a bank account operated
by the Upazila Accounts Officer in each Upazila. The counterpart fund from GOB was transferred in the
form of a payment order to the Upazila Accounts Officer who then reimbursed the Upazila Agriculture
Officer (UAO) for authorized partnership expenses on submission of invoices. Given the very small
amount of money involved in the GOB funded component of a partnership initiative (frequently less than
US$100.00) this was a complex process, and one subject to administrative delay and interference.

          The implementation of the DPIF and NPIF was unsatisfactory. In the first year of the project, the
EPICC Partnership Unit established to develop and administer the funds performed poorly, and was
subsequently restructured with responsibility for the two funds largely transferred to the DFID Technical
Assistance Team (TAT). The TAT managed to develop improved and more transparent mechanisms for
the award of grants. However the procedures are time consuming and relatively few grants were actually
awarded, with only 33 percent of IDA funds utilized at Credit closing. Problems persisted throughout the
project period with poor quality of proposals despite technical advice. Most of the proposals did not
comply with the key principles (innovation, alignment to NAEP), sustainability and partnership of the
Partnership Initiative Fund (PIF). Most of the requests were essentially for very traditional extension
activities linked to the supply of inputs for crop production/income generating activities. There has been
limited development of knowledge transfer partnerships which may not be sufficient to lead to greater
Extension Service Providers (ESP) collaboration in future. There were some concerns about targeting the
poor.

Small Scale Pilot Trials.

          (a)    On-Farm Water Management. This is reported to have effectively demonstrated the use
of simple water saving techniques, some of which are now being adopted by farmers. It also demonstrated
bottom-up farmers' needs assessment, decentralized approach and increased partnership between he
extension service providers and the NGOs.

          (b)    Village Level Soil Testing and Fertility Management. This sub-project suffered from
initial delays in the recruitment of a Technical Advisor, which in turn led to delays in the selection and
procurement of analytical equipment, and a delay of over a year before activity started. Partly due to these
delays, there was time to develop only a preliminary and not a standardized method of soil testing. The
interest shown in soil testing by farmers has confirmed that small farmers want, and are willing to pay such
a service. Furthermore, the sub-project has demonstrated that nongovernment agencies are capable of
providing such services.




                                                     - 9 -

         (c)      Crop Forecasting and Weather Advice. There was limited progress on this pilot. There
are three main reasons for this, all of which are essentially design weaknesses. In the first place, the design
called for the cooperation and coordination of a number of line agencies, even though it was known from
previous experience that securing cooperation from these same agencies had proved impossible earlier.
Secondly, the pilot was complicated, and relied extensively on international TA for its execution, some of
which was of rather variable competence. Thirdly, the design failed to build in an effective management
structure responsible for the day to day operation and reporting. Thus the Crop Monitoring and Crop
Forecasting Group (CMFG) that was to have played this role has been more of technical and advisory body
than a managing agent. The pilot has also suffered from difficulties in retaining staff full time over the
project period. The DAE assigned staff to the pilot, but there was lack of commitment, or support for the
pilot. The FAO is reported to have provided adequate support in the procurement of equipment and
training courses overseas, but experienced difficulties in retaining the services of competent consultants
.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

         N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:

         N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

HORTEX: The institutional development impact on HORTEX has not been very significant. It has not
been able to build capacity to provide quality assistance to potential exporters to diversify into both
high-end products and high end markets. HORTEX was not able to produce a realistic business plan until
late in the project. This indicates lack of institutional maturity.

NGOs and Private Entrepreneurs: As mentioned above, some of the exporters of horticulture produce
have gained a better understanding of the requirement of the external market in terms of quality and
reliability in supply. Perhaps the greatest impact has been on one NGO which has been associated with
HORTEX since its establishment. This NGO was able to develop competence and confidence to
undertake exports on its own using the tools (contract farming, quality control, cool chain management, and
improved packaging) patented by HORTEX. This could be a model for others to copy.

DAE: It is difficult to say at this stage how the project impacted on DAE. Several initiatives have been
taken under the project for institutional strengthening of DAE. Some of the major ones are: development of
guidelines for partnerships, development of a new strategic plan to operationalize NAEP, efforts aimed at
consolidation of the institutional methodologies and management reforms within DAE. It is expected that
during the remaining period of assistance by DFID would help to develop the institutional capacity of
DAE. At the upazila level, the concept of integrated extension approach has been appreciated by the DAE
as well as non-DAE ESP but the main constraint is the lack of resources to apply this approach.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

         None.




                                                      - 10 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

         The project experienced shortage of counterpart GOB funds as well as slow release of funds.
Absence of a simple disbursement system for government funds and lack of UAO also affected
implementation. Lack of inter-agency cooperation affected greatly the implemenation of the pilots.

         FAO financed the cost of local goods and equipment in the pilot programs for which the duties and
taxes were to be paid by the government. The relevant line agencies often did not have sufficient budget
provision to pay the required duties and taxes for the FAO financed goods and equipment which led to
delays in procurement.

         The procedures for disbursement of GOB matching funds for the upazila partnership funds were
complex. The fund was transferred in the form of payment order to the Upazila Accounts Officer who then
reimbursed the UAO for authorized partnership expenses on submission of invoices. Given the very small
amount of matching government fund (frequently less than US$100), this complex process was subject to
administrative interference and delays.

         The absence of UAO in many upazilas marginally affected the partnership program at the upazila
level. The Government could not fill these posts due to lack of funds.

         The lack of inter-agency cooperation affected the implementation of the crop yield forecasting and
agro-meteorology pilot sub-projects. Mechanisms for fostering more cooperation between DAE and CMFG
and BBS for crop production and yield data collection were absent. BMD could not provide historical
meteorological data on time. MOF and FPMU should have been involved early on in the identification and
verification of the value of the information in the CMFG monthly bulletins.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

         The effectiveness of HORTEX could have improved substantially if the recommendations of the
experts were implemented and the organization responded to the needs expressed by their clients.
HORTEX did not focus on developing in-house marketing expertise. There was no effort to analyze a new
crop or a new market along the lines recommended by experts at the time of the mid-term review in June
2001. Horticulture product exporters had identified the basic areas to develop marketing expertise; market
intelligence (both as raw data and processed marketing research); market skills training; and marketing
observations but HORTEX could not provide these services. The absence of a long-term business
development plan of HORTEX affected its ability to identify the risks, challenges, potential and actions
needed to develop it.

5.4 Costs and financing:

         At appraisal the total project cost was projected at US$14.4 million of which a IDA provided a
credit of US$5.0 million (SDR 3.8 million equivalent), DFID US$6.9 million equivalent, GOB US$1.8
million equivalent, and FAO US$0.50 million equivalent. The beneficiaries were supposed to contribute
US$0.2 million equivalent (see Annex 2). The actual project costs are now estimated at US$11.07 million
equivalent. Withdrawals from IDA Credit was SDR3.13 million equivalent to US$4.07 million. The
underspending of about 17 percent was in the account of the partnership grants, specifically the DPIF and
NPIF. There was no cancellation of Credit amount during the project period. The DCA was amended in
September 2002 to re-allocate the proceeds of the Credit for the HORTEX component in the category for
Goods, and Consultant services as well as consultant services for DAE. The balance US$0.67 million



                                                     - 11 -

equivalent (SDR 0.92 million equivalent) would be cancelled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         Overall, the sustainability of the project is rated Uncertain although some of the achievements of
this LIL project are likely to be sustained. The technical support provided by HORTEX to exporters
(existing and potential) has helped them to gain skills necessary to expand or undertake horticulture export
operations. With the exception of the UPIF, the partnership initiatives have not been very successful and
the Government does not plan to finance these activities. There are indications that the water management
and soil testing will be sustained. Based on farmers' demand for affordable soil testing services, some
NGOs and private sector entrepreneurs are exploring possibilities of providing this service to the farmers
on commercial terms. It is not likely that the crop yield forecasting and agro-meteorology pilot will be
sustained as there are problems of coordination among the relevant ministries/agencies (MOA,
MOF/FPMU, BMD, BBS). Based on these considerations, the sustainability has been assessed to unlikely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

         HORTEX activities is expected to be continued in the new project called Export Oriented
Integrated Horticulture Development which would be financed by the Government. DAE intends to adopt
some of the extension procedures and processes tested under the project in its new Strategic Plan. With
financial assistance from Japan, DAE has extended the water management initiatives in 21 upazilas of 15
districts. The IDA is planning to support Government's efforts to improve agricultural productivity
through new technologies. Focus on agriculture technology is critical for Bangladesh to maintain adequate
levels of food security. Furthermore if agriculture is to be a major engine of growth in the rural areas, new
technologies will have to be developed for diversification and the exploitation of value added opportunities.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

         The performance of the Bank is considered to be satisfactory. The preparation team had extensive
knowledge of the agricultural sector in Bangladesh, in particular the need to diversify into more valuable
crops and to address the key constraints facing the extension service. The Bank encouraged participation of
stakeholders in preparatory activities, particularly NGOs. With hindsight, it appears that extensive
consultations should have been held with private horticulture exporters for better design of the HORTEX
component. Finally, in terms of responsiveness and dialogue with the Borrower, the performance of the
Bank was less than satisfactory. The Bank could have allowed the Borrower to be more proactive during
the preparation phase and in the process gain more ownership of the project.




                                                     - 12 -

7.2 Supervision:

        The overall performance of the Bank is rated unsatisfactory. Although supervision mission were
regular and implementation issues raised by the supervision mission were highlighted by the supervising
Manager and the Country Director in almost all the Project Status Reports but it was not until the
Mid-Term Review that the problems with HORTEX and the DPIF/NPIF were clearly identified. Overall
supervision of the HORTEX component was weak.              The supervision team did not have continuous
presence of competent agribusiness expertise. Presence of such expertise would have helped to address the
commercial and marketing issues. Finally, the Bank supervision did not focus adequate attention to the
causes of the inertia by the government to adopt the new institutional models, such as HORTEX or the
partnership funds. Bank supervision should have probed this further and agree on a strategy to address
these issues.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

        The overall performance of the Bank is rated unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

        The Borrower played a supportive, but rather passive, role during preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

        The performance of MOA was marginally satisfactory. The project Steering Committee, chaired
by the Secretary of MOA was set up, but was not very effective as the meetings were not held regularly.
The EPICC set up to provide coordination between the different line agencies of government providing
extension services, also failed to function properly. In the early years of the project representatives from
line agencies, other than DAE, did not attend meetings. Towards the end of the project, there were frequent
changes in representation from the line agencies, thereby losing continuity.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

        The performance of the implementing agencies with respect to procurement and financial
management is satisfactory. In terms of overall implementation, the performance has been marginally
satisfactory.

        HORTEX focussed on production aspects and in supporting exporters. A more broad based
service with a greater emphasis on marketing, would have been more useful to potential exporters. The
DAE managed the UPIF satisfactorily from a technical point of view. The larger DPIF and NPIF were not
managed well. The performance of the DAE departments and NGOs involved in the small scale trials was
variable.  To a large extent this is attributed to frequent staff changes, but also to a lack of real
commitment to the objectives of the project and its sub-projects.

        Procurement Management: HORTEX carried out procurement in accordance with agreed plan
following IDA's procedures, with some initial difficulties which is not uncommon for a new organization.
Considering the new initiative of partnership development in procurement arrangements, the competitive
grant procedures developed and applied by DAE for UPIF has generally been acceptable. The competitive



                                                    - 13 -

grant procedures for DPIF suffered from inadequate transparency, which has been addressed with the
technical assistance of DFID. The revised procedures were more transparent and robust, with disclosed
evaluation criteria for technical issues.

         Financial Management: Financial management system was satisfactory except for the slow pace of
financial management improvements in DAE. The Bank received all the audit reports timely during project
period. HORTEX and DAE responded timely on material audit observations that required clarification
from the Bank's perspective. HORTEX had successfully computerized its accounting system leading to
reliable financial management capacity at the institutional level, while DAE was not able to build its
financial management capacity to a satisfactory level.      This is mainly due to the "ring fenced project
implementation approach" in DAE that provides little scope for the government agency to build
institutional capacity.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

         The overall performance of the Borrower is assessed to be satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

This was a small, but complicated project with a large number of sub-components involving a number of
donors, government and nongovernment organizations. It was also experimental and high risk. Never-the
less it has as generated useful lessons.

Horticulture Export

        l An organization to promote horticulture is relevant for Bangladesh at this stage of its
             horticultural export development but it cannot be financially self sustaining in the short-run.
             However, a policy decision has to be made on how long such an organization should be
             sustained with public funds and what the criteria would be to exit from this initially justified
             public support.
        l Guidelines need to be developed by a horticulture promotional organization on service user
             charges during the catalyst phase and commercial phase.
        l The promotional organization should have a Governing Body that plays an active role in policy
             setting and monitoring progress towards the achievement of those policy goals. Eligibility to
             the membership to this body should avoid any conflict of interest. For instance, members
             cannot directly benefit from the services of this organization. Majority of members should be
             from the private sector to ensure that the marketing issues are given importance.
        l The chief executive officer of the promotional organization should come from the private
             sector. There should be a balance between expertise in production and marketing in staff skills.
        l Studies on markets should be carried out to analyze the essential issues of sustained
             competitive advantage. This recognizes that successful marketing embraces a plethora of
             issues such as price, timing, variety, market entry strategies, and supply chain management.
             The organization should develop the ability to provide marketing skills training to the private
             sector.
        l Bangladesh's fresh horticultural export industry is very dependent on airfreight. Issues with
             subsidized rates by the national carrier and capacity and other constraints have to be
             addressed.
        l Contract farming involves considerable up-front financing, from advance payments to farmers
             until the receipt of money from the final sale of contracted products. Without access to



                                                     - 14 -

              institutional finance, contract farming has limited potential in Bangladesh.
        l An information campaign should be mounted to advise all in the supply chain of their
              responsibilities regarding chemical residues.

Partnership Programs

        l The use of small grants at the lower levels of administration (Upazila) is administratively
              possible. The use of larger grants at higher levels of government has proved administratively
              too difficult. Further testing of the mechanisms and procedures are necessary to ensure the use
              of such funds to stimulate the development of sustainable partnerships amongst ESP, and
              change the practice of extension methods from predominantly field demonstrations and input
              provision. Procurement arrangements for partnership development initiatives needs further
              simplification with the application of community contracting procedures building in flexibility
              in dealing with local issues.
        l A sustainable financing mechanism through leveraging funds from other sources (e.g. local
              government funds) has to be explored to sustain successful activities.

Pilot Sub-projects

        l Farmers are increasingly aware of the benefits of soil testing, and there are indications that
              they could pay for the costs of a well organized simple service.
        l Private sector can provide soil testing services to the farmers.
        l Simple, portable soil testing facilities are more cost effective than either mobile or fixed
              laboratories.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

        Both HORTEX and DAE have prepared completion reports. The executive summaries are in
Annexes 7.

(b) Cofinanciers:

        The main co-financer ­ DFID has agreed to extend its support for the project until the end of 2003
when it is expected to prepare its own evaluation. FAO will prepare a separate completion report.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

        These partners participated in the component assessment made in this report.

10. Additional Information


          It is important to recognize that this was a LIL project, and that as such any assessment of its
achievements must be seen not only in terms of its physical or financial achievements, but perhaps more
significantly in terms of the lessons learned and experiences gained. Indeed it is clear that strictly speaking
its quantitative achievements have been modest. Thus there has not been any substantial expansion in
horticultural exports that can be attributed to the project, nor has there been any significant improvement in
the performance of extension service providers as a result of the project. However key lessons (listed
above) have been identified and the project provided a low cost way of gaining this experience, and the



                                                      - 15 -

design of future support service projects or programs will be able to build on these lessons, and prevent
substantial wastage of resources. The project also provided a low cost way of testing new agricultural
productions technologies and their extension to farmers, some of which appear to be cost effective. Overall
the project is therefore assessed as satisfactory.




                                                   - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Expansion of horticultural exports.         535 tons (revised 870 tons).                 1200 tons exported as of
                                                                                         March 31, 2003.
Increased ability of DAE and NGOs to work   Successful GO/NGO partnership developed. GO-NGO Partnerships developed.
effectively together.
Improved understanding of appropriate       Expansion program for the successful         Technology developed successfully on water
techniques in pilot programs.               technology developed.                        & soil fertility management.
Improved DAE monitoring and evaluation      MIS and FMS operational at DAE and           MIS developed not operational.
systems.                                    HORTEX.


Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Output: Increased Horticultural Export.     PAD 535 tons ( revised 870 tons:             - Total Export of fruits and vegetables (as of
                                            French bean 400MT;                           Mar 2003) total -1200 tons
                                            b. bean 5MTgreen chilli 280MTokra 25MT,      (French bean 323t, Okra 15t, g.chilli 320t,
                                            b.gourd 38MT yard l.bean,49MT;               b.ground 140t, yard l.bean 180t, b.pineapple
                                            b. pineapple 18MT,                           8t, t.gourd 30t others 4t );
                                            t.gourd 39MT,                                - Rural employment generated - 125,000
                                            others 16MT).                                person days.
Output: Increased ability of DAE and NGOs                                                - 6860 GO-NGO partnership contracts
to work together effectively.                                                            awarded in 460 upazilas (involving
                                                                                         beneficiaries over 100,000 farm families) :
                                                                                         DPIF - 87 (IDA funded 26; DFID funded 61);
                                                                                         NPIF - 19;
Output: Improved understanding of           Successful technology identified, tested and - Effective technology identified, tested and
appropriate techniques in 3 pilot programs. transferred to the farmers to improve food   transferred to the farmer on farm-water and
                                            security.                                    soil fertility management.
Output: Improved DAE M&E systems.           FMS and MIS functional at DAE and            - MIS established not functional.
                                            HORTEX.

1End of project




                                                               - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Support to HORTEX                                            2.40            2.16              86
Strengthening implementation of NAEP                         9.90            8.13              79
Small-scale pilot programs                                   1.70            1.56              92

Total Baseline Cost                                         14.00           11.85
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.60            0.47
 Price Contingencies                                         0.30            0.23
                         Total Project Costs                14.90           12.55
                   Total Financing Required                 14.90           12.55


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.10          0.00         0.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.10)         (0.00)       (0.10)
2. Goods                           0.30             0.10         0.30          0.10         0.80
                                  (0.20)           (0.10)      (0.20)         (0.00)       (0.50)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         2.90          7.40        10.30
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.40)         (0.00)       (2.40)
4. Trust Funds                     0.00             0.00         0.90          0.90         1.80
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.90)         (0.00)       (0.90)
5. Operating Cost                  0.00             0.00         1.30          0.60         1.90
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.10)         (0.00)       (1.10)
6.                                 0.00             0.00                                    0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)          ()           ()         (0.00)
   Total                           0.30             0.10         5.50          9.00        14.90
                                  (0.20)           (0.10)      (4.70)         (0.00)       (5.00)
N.B.F.= Not Bank-financed includes support by DFID, FAO, GOB, NGOs and beneficiaries.




                                                - 18 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.03             0.00              0.03
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.03)            (0.00)           (0.03)
   2. Goods                                 0.24               0.00              0.50             0.00              0.74
                                           (0.24)             (0.00)            (0.34)            (0.00)           (0.58)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              1.78             4.21              5.99
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.95)            (0.00)           (1.95)
   4. Trust Funds                           0.00               0.00              0.00             4.86              4.86
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.86)           (0.86)
   5. Operating Cost                        0.00               0.00              0.93             0.00              0.93
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.65)            (0.00)           (0.65)
   6.                                       0.00               0.00                               0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)               ()             (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.24               0.00              3.24             9.07             12.55
                                           (0.24)             (0.00)            (2.97)            (0.86)           (4.07)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. HORTEX provision of          2.40         0.30                     2.07         0.15                  86.3      50.0
support to pioneering
horticultural and export
activites
2. Strengthening                1.70         1.30         6.90        1.14                               67.1      0.0       0.0
implementation of NAEP
3. Small-scale pilot            0.90         0.37         0.53        0.86                               95.6      0.0       0.0
programs




                                                           - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/20/1998


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/10/1998
              07/25/1999              11     Team Leader, Senior Counsel,
                                             Acting Country Director,
                                             Agriculturist, Irrigation
                                             Engineer, Procurement
                                             Specialist, Financial
                                             Management Specialist,
                                             Disbursement Officer, Sr.
                                             Operations Officer, FAO
                                             Representatives (two)

 Supervision

              05/27/2000                2    Agriculturist (1); Irrigation       S               S
                                             Engineer (1)
              10/05/2000               14    Sr. Agriculturist (TKL) (1);        S               S
                                             Sr. Agriculturist (TL) (1);
                                             Lead Economist (1);
                                             Fin. Mgmt. Spepcialist (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Disbursement Officer (1);
                                             Social Scientist (1);
                                             Team Assistant (1);
                                             Program Officer (1);
                                             Water Mgmt. Officer (1);
                                             First Secretary (1);
                                             NR Field Manager (1);
                                             Consultant (2)
              12/01/2001               11    Task Leader (Sr Agroc) (1);         S               S
                                             Senior Ecpmist (1);
                                             Financial Specialist (1);
                                             Procurement Analyst (1);
                                             Disbursement Officer (1);
                                             First Secretary (1);
                                             Inst. Specialist (1);
                                             Agric. Ext. Specialist (1);
                                             Social Dev. Advisor (1);
                                             Soc & Gen Specialist (1);
                                             Nat. Profe. Officer (1)
              04/07/2002                4     Agriculturist (1);                 S               S
                                             Economist (1);
                                             Agri-Business Spec. (1);



                                              - 21 -

                                            Agriculturist (1)
               09/30/2002               5   Economist; Agriculturalist;         S    S
                                            Financial Management
                                            Specialist; Procurement
                                            Specialist; Disbursement Officer;



 ICR
               April-June 2003         4     Agricultural Economist;            U    S
                                             Agribusiness Expert;
                                             Agriculturalist;
                                             Economist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                            84.7                        143,412
  ICR                                   14.60                          49,000
  Total




                                             - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA
NGOs




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.  Agreements between The Government of the Peoples Republic of Bangladesh and the Food and
    Agriculture Organization of the United Nations concerning (a) "Crop Yield Forecasting and
    Agro-meteorology" UTF/BGD/029/BGD dated 19/12/1999, and (b) "Soil Testing and Fertility
    Management" UTF/BGD/030/BGD dated 19/12/1999.

2.  An Evaluation of the Upazila Partnership Initiative Fund (UPIF) Volume 1 - ASIRP/ ACE
    Consultants .September 2002.

3.  Project Status and Supervision Mission Reports.

4.  Guidelines for Partnership Initiatives Programme. (Revised) ASIRP/DAE December 2000

5.  Partnership Initiative Funds ­ A Synthesis of Findings. Technical Assistance Team. Report, K.
    Fisher, March 2003.

6.  Project Appraisal Document, and supporting files.

7.  Project Assessment (ASIRP) DFID - Blackshaw, Alex, Cashin and Wysocki. Apr 2001.

8.  Project Assessment (ASIRP) DFID - Blackshaw, Alex, Dey, and Ahmed. Dec 2001.

9.  Review of EPICC Structures and Processes. K. Fisher, August 2001.

10. Performance of Extension Service Providers in Bangladesh. Quality or Quantity of Service? ASIRP,
    March 2003.

11. Impact Evaluation of HORTEX Foundation Activities. Dr. S.S. Sidhu, HORTEX, November 2002.

12. Evaluation of ASIRP (DAE Component); Final Report submitted by House of Consultants Ltd.
    March 2003.

13. Project Completion Report: Agriculture Services Innovation and Reform Project (ASIRP) -
    HORTEX component);
    Hortex Foundation, March 2003.




                                                 - 25 -

- 26 -

                       Evaluation of ASIRP (DAE Component)

                                List of Acronyms

ASIRP   Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project
ASSP    Agricultural Support Services Project
ATA     Ad-hoc Technical Advisors
ATC     Agricultural Technical Committee
ATI     Agricultural Training Institute
BS      Block Supervisor
CERDI   Central Extension Resources Development Institute
CHT     Chittagong Hill Tracts
DAE     Department of Agricultural Extension
DD      Deputy Director
DDA     Deputy Director of Agriculture
DAEPC   District Agricultural Extension Planning Committee
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DFID    Department for International Development
DLS     Department of Livestock
DOF     Department of Fisheries
DPIF    District Partnership Initiative Fund
EPICC   Extension Policy Implementation Coordination Committee
EPSC    EPICC Partnership Sub-Committee
ESC     Extension Service Center
ESP     Extension Service Provider
FAO     Food and Agricultural Organisation
FGD     Focused Group Discussion
FINA    Farmer Information Needs Assessment
FIVDB   Friends in Village Development in Bangladesh
FLE     Farmer Led Extension
FS      Field Staff
GO      Government Organisation
GOB     Government of Bangladesh
HRD     Human Resource Development
HRM     Human Resource Management
IDA     International Development Association
IEA     Integrated Extension Approach
ISWG    Issue Specific Working Group
KAP     Knowledge, Attitude and Practice
LAFT    Local Area Facilitation Teams
LGED    Local Government Engineering Department
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MoA     Ministry of Agriculture




                                              - 27 -

                              List of Acronyms (Cont'd.)


MIS     Management Information System
NAEP    New Agricultural Extension Policy
NATCC   National Agricultural Technical Co-ordination Committee
NGO     Non-Government Organisation
NPIF    National Partnership Initiative Fund
PC      Problem Census
PCC     Problem Census Card
PIRS    Problem Identification Record Sheets
PPS     Plant Protection Specialist
PRA     Participatory Rural Appraisal
RDRS    Rangpur Dinajpur Rural Services
REA     Revised Extension Approach
SEMS    Seasonal Extension Monitoring System
RC      Resource Center
RICC    Research Institute Co-ordination Committee
SPFS    Special Programme for Food Security
SRDI    Soil Resources Development Institute
TOR     Terms of Reference
TS      Technical Specialist
UAECC   Upazila Agricultural Extension Co-ordination Committee
UPIF    Upazila Partnership Initiative Fund




                                            - 28 -

                                Evaluation of ASIRP (DAE Component)

                                         EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



The ASIRP, a multi-donor co-financed project is a follow-up of the previous project ASSP started
functioning from July 1999. The financial partners are DFID, GOB, IDA and FAO. The project intends to
sustain the momentum of the ASSP. More specifically the ASIRP aim to:

            l Sustain the progress that has already been achieved through the implementation of
                 Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP);
            l Strengthen the collaborating extension activities between the various government,
                 non-government and private extension agencies and Department of Agricultural Extension
                 through proper adoption of New Agricultural Extension Policy(NAEP);
            l Achieve higher agricultural productivity and income through production intensification and
                 diversification through on farm water management, improving soil fertility, and crop yield
                 forecasting;
            l Test and refine various agricultural technology transfer programmes designed to foster
                 more demand driven and locally responsive technology to provide relevant advice to
                 farmers.

The evaluation study of the ASIRP relates to the components mentioned below.

         1.      Support Further Change and Development of DAE.
         2.      Partnership Initiative Programmes
         3.      Special Programme for Food Security
         4.      Other Activities of the project

In addition, a review of the status of the expected outcomes of the project as listed in the logframe has also
been done. The expected outcomes have been designated as (i) not like to be achieved, (ii) partially
achieved, and (iii) fully achieved.

The evaluation was undertaken by a study team comprising of one socio-economist (team leader), one
agricultural extension expert, one agronomist, and one gender specialist. The team leader worked for 5
weeks from mid-February 2003 while the other members of the team worked for only 3 weeks each.

As per the TOR, the evaluation study has been designed to be based primarily on documents review.
However, the study team considered it appropriate to include the other approaches including field visits,
focused group discussion and key informant survey, in addition to document review to gain better
understanding of the project interventions, and obtain direct feedback from the field.

The presentation of the report includes (i) documentation of the major components of the project, (ii)
observation on each of the components, (iii) discussion and interpretation by the study team on the findings,
and (iv) conclusions and recommendations.

The progress status of different project components and general observations thereon has also been
included in the report primarily based on secondary sources. The discussion and interpretations,
conclusions and recommendations even though in some instances have been referred to some earlier studies,
mission reports, and reviews but reflect by and large full endorsement of the study team.

                                                    - 29 -

The ASIRP is a project for service innovation and reform of the agricultural extension service systems in
Bangladesh. Although the implementation agency of the project is the Department of Agricultural
Extension (DAE) under the Ministry of Agriculture but the real players of the activities of the project are
all agricultural extension services providers in the country and the concept of `agriculture' in this context is
the broader perspective of agriculture which includes crops, livestock, fisheries, and forestry plus other
farm based activities. Therefore, the success of the project implementation is very much conditional to the
support of these line departments and the ministries.

The project supported various activities for successful implementation of the revised extension approach
within the broad framework of the NAEP, including strengthening DAE's capability for project
management in terms of planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.

Having the experience of rather negative attitude of the non-DAE agricultural extension service providers
in the past, the project developed a programme implementation strategy through various innovative models,
which have been piloted in different upazilas and districts to encourage other ESPs to develop an attitude
for working together to provide integrated services to the farmers. The emphasis was on partnership
initiative and integrated extension approach. The evaluation of the ASIRP therefore centred around the
project interventions listed below besides activities to strengthen DAE.

              1. Partnership Initiative
              2. Integrated Extension Approach-Models/Pilots

Three special programmes for food security have also been added to the activities of the project, which
have very indirect relevance to the immediate objectives of the ASIRP. However, one may argue in favour
of their long-term impact by way of transfer of technology and providing specific extension services to the
farmers.

The project made significant contributions to strengthen DAE's capability through institutional reforms,
training and providing technical and logistic supports. The fact that DAE drafted the new strategic plan has
been an evidence of the positive impact of the project. The functioning of the policy support institutional
mechanism namely, Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee, and the EPICC have been quite effective in
providing policy guidance to facilitate implementation of the NAEP through revised extension approach
and by implementing various innovative models/ pilots.

The UAECC is functioning fairly well for holding meetings, developing partnership relationships in farmers
information needs assessment, problem identification and programme designing. The concept of integrated
extension approach is very much appreciated and recognized among the members of the UAECC.

However, integration in resource sharing among the different extension service providers (ESPs) is not
there at all. As long as there is programme fund available from DAE (ASIRP), integrated programmes are
visible. There is no `pool of resources' available at the disposal of the UAECC being contributed by other
GO ESPs, NGOs and the private organizations who have been working under the UAECC as partners. In
absence of this `collective pooled resources' the activities of the UAECC still remain as the DAE project
supported activities, although participated by other ESPs, NGOs and the private organizations.

Obtaining a share of the upazila development fund is an appropriate option to ensure sustainability of local
level integrated programme initiated by the UAECC. The EPICC earlier made a very specific decision to
request for obtaining the agricultural share of the local government fund to support the UAECC initiated

                                                      - 30 -

request for obtaining the agricultural share of the local government fund to support the UAECC initiated
activities. This has not yet taken any shape.

The partnership initiative programmes are being implemented with funding from ASIRP. This helped
collaborative GO/NGO, GO/GO and in some cases GO/GO/NGO collaborative initiatives. Although as per
design funding mechanism operates at three levels-national, district and upazila levels, the partnership
initiative activities at the upazila are more visible than at the district and national levels.

The expected outcome of the upazila level partnership initiative programme is partially achieved and may
even be fully achieved with arrangement of small funding. However, the partnership initiative at both the
district and national levels are not that appreciative. The study team tends to interpret that under the
existing policy framework and prevailing situation, the expected output in this regard is not likely to be
achieved.

All the new models piloted under the project indicated promising results to achieve the objectives of the
IEA and promoting partnership initiatives in providing integrated extension services by the ESPs. However,
the project support components of the models are the key success elements for attaining the positive results.

The on-farm water management programme appears to be a success story as it demonstrated wide
dissemination and uptake of demonstrated water control technology. It also demonstrated bottom-up,
farmer need assessment and designing a decentralized programme, and increased partnership between the
extension service providers and NGOs. This special programme as interpreted by the study team has fully
achieved its expected outcome.

The special programme on soil test and fertility management provides soil-testing facilities to the partner
implementing organizations including DAE, SRDI, NGO and Private organization (BFA) with project
supported equipment, other required materials (Soil testing Kit, chemicals etc)

Presently farmers have to pay Taka 30 per soil sample for being tested and analyzed and getting
corresponding fertilizer recommendations. This is a subsidized rate and the farmers do not mind paying this
amount. However, the real cost of analyzing the soil sample is Taka 113 for one soil sample. If the farmers
are asked to pay this full amount they are not encouraged to buy this service until they are convinced with
the benefit accrued from the fertilizer recommendations they receive based on the soil test results. There is
however not adequate farm level empirical studies to confirm the level of net benefit the farmers get from
this fertilizer application intervention. This programme has partially achieved its expected outcome as
evidenced by promoting increased awareness of availability of low cost soil testing services among the
farmers, encouraging them to participate and get their soil tested and judiciously apply fertilizer
combination in their crop production system.

The special programme on Crop Yield Forecasting and Agro-meteorology aims to provide early warning
relating to crop weather condition and prospect of food production, establish an agricultural database,
develop and disseminate a crop monitoring system. No significant progress of this special programme is
visible as yet. The programme is therefore intended to be interpreted that the expected outcome is not likely
to be achieved within the project period.

The evaluation included a review of both endogenous and exogenous factors, which might have influenced
either positively or negatively, project implementation and performance.

The multi-donor support to the project has been recognized to have positive influence in the project
implementation, which helped achieve the expected outcome on many counts.

                                                       - 31 -

The DFID supports a TA team at the ASIRP. The team members provided important support to the ASIRP
project management as well as to DAE in the broad perspective. The specific contribution of the TA team
in developing mechanism for partnership initiative program and piloting various IEA models have been
significant in achieving a number of desired project outcome. The team has also designed project
monitoring and evaluation systems and is ready to undertake KAP survey to assess impact of the project
interventions.

The project experienced shortage of matching fund from GOB. Besides the GOB fund was released quite
slowly and late. This had a negative impact on the project implementation and thereby also had influence on
the achievement of the project outcome. An amount of about 20 percent of the Project Aid fund has been
reported to be remained `unused' at the closure of the project.

The non-DAE ESPs have not yet received the required policy directives from their respective higher
authorities which cause lack of adequate initiatives from the local level ESP to whole hearted participate in
the project activities. Therefore, the IEA and even the partnership initiatives are regarded as activists of
DAE. There is need for a policy decision at the national level to facilitate resources sharing (technical and
financial) to make the system sustainable.

CONCLUSIONS

1.       The ASIRP has been able to make some visible impact at the field level on implementation of the
NAEP, particularly at the upazila level.

2.       Partnership initiative activities at the field level are encouraging, as the Revised Extension
Approach and the role of the UAECC have been recognized by the ESPs at the grassroots level.

3.       DAE has been able to initiate the group approach in providing extension services through
partnership arrangements with other GOs and NGOs.

4.       While the integrated extension approach through UEACC/ DAEPC have been able to motivate the
non-DAE GOs, NGOs and other extension service providers to work in an integrated and coordinated way
but non-DAE ESPs still do not have required directives from their respective authorities which keeping
them aside from whole-hearted participation in integrated extension activities. At the same time smooth
fund flow for implementation of partnership initiative activities is a necessary pre-condition for the
sustainability of the approach.

5.       Three new IEA models have been providing encouraging results and appeared to be successful.
However, the replication of the same may involve financial resources in the range of Tk. 2200- Tk. 3750
per month as per the actual base cost of operation of these new IEA models for March 2002- March 2003
period provided by the project management.

6.       The institutional mechanisms provided under the ASIRP for developing DAE's capacity have
positive impact on implementation of the NAEP. However, the monitoring systems as well as the MIS at
DAE need to be further strengthened.

7.       One of the special programme namely, "on farm water management" has been successful to
recommend technology relating to water use efficiency as well as agricultural intensification and crop
diversification. The impact of the other two special programmes are still required to be continued to achieve

                                                    - 32 -

diversification. The impact of the other two special programmes are still required to be continued to achieve
conclusive results.

RECOMMENDATIONS

1.       All field activities of different projects of DAE irrespective of different donor support should be
implemented through the UAECC. This will help bring true integration in providing extension services and
avoid duplication and discrimination.

2.       There is an urgent need for a policy decision at national level to facilitate resource sharing
(Technical & Financial) at the field level activities to make the system sustainable.

3.       Appropriate mechanisms for funding the integrated extension services at the upazila level should be
designed and approved by the highest authority. Example: (1) A portion of the upazila development fund
should be allocated and made available for implementation of such activities, (2) All extension service
providers (DAE, other GOs namely, DLS, DOF, Dept of Forestry, NGOs and the private organizations)
should create a pool fund for implementation of activities to provide integrated extension services.

4.       ASSP/ASIRP type projects should continue for quite some time, if required, formulation of a new
project with national coverage to carry on testing different promising extension models with the objective to
have cost-effective replicable systems to attain sustainability eventually.

5.       The DAE authority should make increasing use of its MIS in making management decisions. The
monitoring system needs to be strengthened further with identified objectively verifiable performance
indicators.

6.       Services of a short term consultants may be obtained to design a future follow up project activities
specifying the operational arrangements, identifying clearly defined measurable objective performance
indicators and the logframe to establish an effective monitoring system.




                                                      - 33 -

             Project Completion Report




AGRICULTURAL SERVICES INNOVATION & REFORM PROJECT (ASIRP)
                  IDA CREDIT NO. 3284-BD
                  HORTEX COMPONENT




                    HORTEX FOUNDATION
         SECH BHABAN (3RD FLOOR), 22 MANIK MIA AVENUE
               SHER-E-BANGLANAGAR, DHAKA-1207
                          March, 2003




                            - 34 -

                  ABBREVIATIONS and Acronyms

ADB       :  Asian Development Bank
ADOB      :  Agri-Business Development Organisation of Bangladesh
AMCL      :  Agricultural Marketing Company Limited
APBL      :  Agro-Process Bangladesh Ltd.
AP        :  Ayurvedic Pharmacy (Dhaka) Ltd.
ASIRP     :  Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project
ASSP      :  Agricultural Support Services Project
BARI      :  Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
BAPA      :  Bangladesh Agro-Processors' Association
BCR       :  Benefit-cost Ratio
BFVAPEA   :  Bangladesh Fruits, Vegetables and Allied Products Exporters' Association
BMRE      :  Balancing, Modernisation, Rehabilitation and Expansion
BRAC      :  Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee
CROWN     :  Crown Fruits and Vegetable Exports, a private sector export firm
CFR       :  Cost & Freight
DAE       :  Department of Agricultural Extension
EPB       :  Export Promotion Bureau
FBCCI     :  Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce & Industry
FOB       :  Free on Board
GOB       :  Government of Bangladesh
ha.       :  Hectare
HORTEX    :  Horticultural Export Development Foundation
IDA       :  International Development Association (World Bank)
IQF       :  Individual Quick Frozen
ITC       :  International Trade Centre, Geneva
Kg        :  Kilogram
KPM       :  Karnaphuli Paper Mills
LOP       :  Life of Project
MOU       :  Memorandum of Understanding
MT/M.Ton  :  Metric Ton
NGO       :  Non-government Organization
PAD       :  Project Appraisal Document (World Bank)
PP        :  Project Proforma
PROSHIKA  :  An NGO
RPP       :  Revised Project Proforma
SGD       :  Singapore Dollar
STC       :  Short Term Consultant
TA        :  Technical Assistance
TK./Tk.   :  Taka
TQM       :  Total Quality Management
UK        :  United Kingdom
USA       :  United States of America
USAID     :  United States Agency for International Development
USFDA     :  United States Food & Drug Administration
US$       :  United States Dollar



                                      - 35 -

                                        Executive Summary

1.       Hortex component of ASIRP is virtually a follow-up project aimed at consolidating the progress
made in the predecessor project (ASSP & TA Project) and carrying forward the pioneering horticultural
production and export activities towards building up a strengthened and diversified production and export
base of quality horticultural produces.

2.       The main thrust of the project is on the development of high-value non-traditional horticultural
crops for export to high-price mainstream overseas markets and also on the improvement of the production
technology and post-harvest handling practices of traditional horticultural crops for accessing to the
upper-end ethnic as well as non-ethnic export markets through the process of quality upgradation,
packaging development, spoilage reduction and value addition.

3.       Although ASIRP became officially effective on Dec. 21, 1999, its retrospective effective was given
to, from July 01, 1999 to avoid any discontinuation and disruption of activities between the two projects.
Operationally therefore the project is completing 3 years and 9 months on March 31, 2003. This report is a
stock-taking of the project activities from July 1999 to December 2002, so far as the Operational Area is
concerned. In Administration an Accounting area, however, it stretches upto March 2003.

4.       The highlight is simply remarkable. Against an export target of 535 MT in the PAD and 870 MT
in the RPP, 1199 MT of high value and quality horticultural crops were exported to high price upstream as
well as upper-end ethnic markets abroad up to December 2002. This signifies that the targets have not only
been achieved, but also exceeded by a wide margin of 124% compared to PAD and a good margin of 39%
compared to RPP, 3 months ahead of the project completion. Hortex-promoted exports are also fetching a
better price compared to general exports which are directed to traditional markets and selling at a lower
price.

5.       Not only that, export under Hortex showed a remarkable growth performance of 55% in 2000 ­
2001 over 1999 - 2000, in spite of national export going down by (-) 7% in the corresponding year. In
2001 ­ 2002, national export recovered significantly (34%), yet the rate of growth is less than half than
that of Hortex-promoted export (76%). This national export growth pattern has further skewed in the first
half of 2002 ­ 2003 (July ­ December), when Hortex-promoted export grew by 121% against a decline of
national export by (-) 7%. The high growth rate of Hortex-promoted export also leaves an impact on
national export growth.

6.       Employment-wise also, against a RPP target of 66,000 and 18,000 person-days, actual rural
employment created upto December 2002 at farm and packhouse level was to the tune of 84,394 and
42,555 person days respectively, thereby exceeding the target by 25% at farm level and 123% at packhouse
level, 3 months ahead of the project terminal date. Farmers' as well as exporters' profitability also proved
to be higher with Hortex support than without Hortex support.

7.       Crop-wise, most of the crops have exceeded their respective targets by a wide margin, with the
exception of french bean, okra and baby pineapple. Untimely and intermittent rainfall during the sowing
months, particularly in November, severely damaged the french beans plantation most of the years, whereas
okra being a delicate crops still suffers from lack of proper variety of hybrid seed and difficulty in
post-harvest management. In case of baby pineapple, high competition from South Africa and long distance
of the growing area (hill districts) appear to be the main problem. The outlook, however, is still positive for
all these crops.


                                                      - 36 -

8.       Over the three and a half completed years of the project, most significant development is observed
in the export growth of chilli (371%), bitter gourd (4,100%) and yard long bean (3686%). During the same
period, apart from consolidating existing export crops and export markets, 11 new crops and 10 new
markets/buyers were developed.

9.       Performance-wise, about 98% of the total export under Hortex logo were channelized through
BRAC, while 2% only through 4 private sector firms, viz., CROWN Fruits & Vegetables Export (1.87%),
APBL (0.19%), AP (0.20%) and Badhon Enterprise (0.12%).

10.      Exporters' profitability of fresh produces varies from year to year, depending on market trend and
supply situation. In 2001 ­ 2002, exporter's gross profit margin for Hortex-promoted crops was Tk. 26 for
french bean and summer vegetables and Tk. 22 for green chilli against Tk. 12 only for traditional exports in
Europe-based markets. Farmers' profitability also increased for growing quality horticultural crops, the
BCR worked out, being 2.16 for french bean as against 1.43 for potato.

11.      In the balance of payment situation, project activities over the last three years and a half
contributed Tk. 54,229,406 (FOB) against a target of 32,616,000 (FOB) at current rate of exchange (US$
1 ­ Tk. 58.5). This is 66% higher than the targeted earning, even 3 months ahead of project closing.

12.      Ornamental plants and frozen vegetables were also developed under the project and first ever
shipment of 1,000 ornamental plants were successfully effected to the Netherlands. Besides, two 20
container load of frozen vegetables were sent to New York. Other market related activities included field
trials for export oriented orchids, examining organic farming, experimenting IQF frozen and processed
product and undertaking continuous product and market development exercise.

13.      Hortex logo used on the export cartons is increasingly being accepted by the buyer as a quality
mark and a brand name image is being developed for Bangladesh horticultural produces in the upstream
export markets abroad. Continuous efforts are also made to improve the carton quality.

14.      Area cultivated under the project stood at 122 ha as on December 31, 2002. This is 18% higher
than the target fixed in the RPP. Number of contract farmers also increased considerably (514%) between
the years 1999 ­ 2000 and 2002 ­ 2003 (upto Dec.). Remarkable progress has also been made in crop
modernization, transfer of technology, cropping pattern and farming system, decrease in production risk,
increase in productivity and undertaking adaptive research.

15.      Foreign training as a part of export market development programme always plays a major role and
with this objective in view, participation in 12 international events was organized by Hortex upto
December, 2002 since the beginning of ASIRP in July 1999, for market study, taking part in international
trade fairs and attending technical seminars and conference. A total number of 34 representatives from
Hortex, BRAC, ADOB, AMCL/BAPA, BFVAPEA, PROSHIKA & FBCCI participated.

16.       26 Seminar/training events were organized by Hortex upto December, 2002 since the beginning of
ASIRP in July 1999 towards the export development of selected horticultural crops including ornamental
plants and ensuring TQM. A total of 1,374 farmers, exporters, entrepreneurs, DAE Extension staff, NGO
staff and officials of other concerned agencies participated.

17.      23 MOUs were signed under the project over the last three years and a half, of which 16 were with
the private sector, 6 with the NGOs and 1 with the public sector. Out of these 23 MOUs, 14 are still alive

                                                    - 37 -

the private sector, 6 with the NGOs and 1 with the public sector. Out of these 23 MOUs, 14 are still alive
and 9 expired and have not been revalidated.

18.     Among other related activities, market information services were subscribed, web site was
installed, market research study projects were undertaken, air freight study was commissioned,
on-the-ground transportation system was improved, indirect air transportation through transshipment was
successfully experimented and quality management system was strengthened.

19.     In the area of administration, various policy papers were prepared, a number of publications
(quarterly newsletter, promotional brochure, product brochure, exporters' directory etc.) were brought out
and 87% procurement of goods and services were effected upto March 2003.

20.     In the financial management area, expenditure incurred upto March 2003 was 91% against the
budgetary allocation of Tk. 1316.96 lakh for the whole of the project period. Income generated under the
project during the same time stands at Tk. 84,88,105.15.

21.     The project ASIRP thus made significant progress on all fronts and created a positive
demonstration effect and generated an inertia in the horticultural export sector. This also explains how the
progress made by the project was considered satisfactory not only by various World Bank Missions, but
also by independent impact evaluation team.

22.     From the experience gained, it appears that high-value non-traditional horticultural crops can be
successfully grown in Bangladesh and effectively marketed abroad. In the same way, traditional crops can
also be promoted for marketing in the upper-segment of the ethnic and non-ethnic markets through
upgradation of quality and improvement of packaging. Organic farming, frozen vegetables and processed
products are also market-worthy propositions.

23.     Among the constraints, the most serious one relates to the air transportation in terms of inadequate
air space, frequent off-loading and high airfreight cost.

24.     In spite of all these constraints, through the efforts of Hortex and its partners organizations,
particularly BRAC, the recognition of Bangladesh is gaining ground beyond the horizon of ethnic markets
and she is gradually, but steadily emerging as a dependable supply source of quality horticultural crops,
both traditional and non-traditional, in the world fresh produce market. The contract farming system
established under the project proves to be an ideal model in this process. Quality transformation as well as
product development and diversification also leave a positive impact on the future growth of horticultural
export.

25.     The export development process of horticultural produces that has started under ASIRP needs to
be further consolidated, sustained and carried forward for a few more years, to have a permanent impact,
for which continued activities of a specialized developmental and promotional agency, like Hortex
Foundation, is of utmost necessity. Packaging development support is also an important need of the day,
along with ensuring adequate air space at a reasonable cost.

Hortex, therefore, needs to be supported beyond ASIRP to enable it not only to continue its activities on
export development of horticultural sector, but also to contribute towards the alleviation of rural poverty
and generation of rural employment, particularly women employment, otherwise the momentum gained is
likely to be lost and things may have to be started afresh from the scratch. Bangladesh possibly cannot
afford to take that risk.


                                                    - 38 -

Additional Annex 8. Comments of Ministry of Agriculture on the Draft ICR of ASIRP
Credit 3284-BD)




                                        - 39 -

                  Views of MOA on the Draft ICR of ASIRP (Credit

                  2840-BD)


Issued as                                                                                                                    Views of MOA
Depicted           Main Observations/                        Comments Offered                     Comments Offered by          over DAE &
from the            Recommendation                                 by DAE                           Hortex Foundation             Hortex
Report                                                                                                                         Foundation
                                                                                                                              (Column 4+5)
     1                           2                                     3                                     4                       5
General   Project Data:                             The name would be of                                                    No Comment.
          Name: Agricultural Services Innovation    "Agricultural Services Innovation
          and Reform                                and Reform Project (ASIRP)"
Sec. 3.3  Memorandum of Understanding               There was no indication in the                                          No Comment.
          (MOUs) were needed to secure              project document to make MOU
          improved co-operation from Ministry       with MoF, FPMU & BBS except
          of Food (MoF), Food Policy and            BMD. However, the Project
          Monitoring Unit (FPMU), and               Management received necessary
          Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS)     co-operation from MoF & FPMU
          as these organizations were involved in   except BBS. BBS did not agree to
          the implementation of the Pilot Project   open their clusters to the
          on Crop Yield Forecasting &               Sub-project. However, the
          Agrometeorology"                          Sub-project has established new
                                                    clusters (540) in two pilot districts.
Sec. 3.3  The TA for HORTEX was not                                                         It is not true that TA was not  No comment as
          predetermined (Ref. p-4, last para,                                               predetermined. It was very      Technology
          second sentence. With hindsight it is                                             much predetermined and          Transfer as a
          clear affects most projects (Ref. P-4,                                            planned ahead. Only the         generic problem in
          end of last para and its continuation at                                          Short Term Consultants          case of
          page 5).                                                                          (STCs), in certain cases, were  Bangladesh
                                                                                            hired on need-basis and as
                                                                                            such the last part of the para
                                                                                            does not reflect the factual
                                                                                            situation and needs to be
                                                                                            modified.
Sec. 3.3  Tendency for the implementing agencies    In implementing some special Pilot                                      -Ditto-
          to use the TA to execute functions rather Programmes, the advisory services
          than as advisors or trainers"             of the TA Team members were
                                                    sought propor-
                                                    tionately at a higher rate. Except
                                                    this, the TA Team members always
                                                    acted as advisors or trainers rather
                                                    than implementers.
Sec. 3.4  There were no major changes to the        This important area was not                                             No Comment.
          Project Components at the time of the     identified by Appraisal Mission.
          Mid-term Review Mission (MTR).
          However, the Development Credit
          Agreement (DCA) was amended in
          Sept. 2002 to make provision, for
          financing, using unallocated credit
          proceeds a fourth component or
          activity-- Monitoring and
          Evaluation-that had not been funded
          under the original DCA.
Sec. 3.5  Concept, Objective and Approach           Agreed.
Sec. 3.5  Technical and Economic Analysis           Agreed.
Sec. 3.5  Institutional Aspects                     Agreed.
Sec. 3.5  The lack of marketing specialists should                                          Hortex achievement could not    Agreed
          have been addressed (Ref. P-6, para (d),                                          have been accom- plished had
          last sentence).                                                                   there been lack of marketing
                                                                                            specialist. This observation is
                                                                                            not, therefore, based on fact
                                                                                            and needs to be deleted.
Sec. 3.5  Readiness for implementation             Agreed.
Sec. 3.5  The ICR for ASSP indicated...........                                             The observation seems to be     Modifications may
          Government agencies.                                                              biased and motivated and is     be made as




                                                                 - 40 -

                                                                                     not based on fact. It is not      suggested by
                                                                                     true that MOA exerts too          Hortex Foundation.
                                                                                     much influence on Hortex
                                                                                     operation, rather by saying so
                                                                                     it undermines the role of
                                                                                     Hortex Governing Body,
                                                                                     which provides policy
                                                                                     guidelines and overviews the
                                                                                     activities of Hortex. It is also
                                                                                     untrue, unbecoming and
                                                                                     derogatory to say that at
                                                                                     times, Hortex compromises
                                                                                     its autonomy in selection and
                                                                                     appointment of senior staff,
                                                                                     which are solely recruited
                                                                                     from the Government
                                                                                     agencies. All appointments in
                                                                                     Hortex were made through
                                                                                     advertisement, strictly
                                                                                     following the recruitment
                                                                                     rules and procedures and
                                                                                     maintaining utmost fairness
                                                                                     and transparency. Under
                                                                                     ASIRP also, the same
                                                                                     practice was followed and
                                                                                     only 2 out of 7 senior staff
                                                                                     were recruited from
                                                                                     Government agencies on
                                                                                     deputation and that too
                                                                                     strictly following the
                                                                                     recruitment policy and
                                                                                     formalities on the basis of
                                                                                     their qualification and
                                                                                     interview performance. The
                                                                                     observation is, therefore,
                                                                                     needs to be modified.
Sec. 4.1  The UPIF has shown some promise in      Agreed.                                                             No comment
          supporting low-cost....                 Approval of the Revised Guidelines
                                                  for DPIF & NPIF took long time
                                                  from the World Bank which
                                                  hampered the implementation.
Sec. 4.1  The results of the three small-scale    Agreed.                                                              No comment
          pilots....................
Sec. 4.2  A major shortcoming of HORTEX is                                           This is unkind to repeat again    MoA endorses the
          the lack of institutional knowledge                                        that Hortex lacks institutional   outputs of Hartex
          about markets and marketing and                                            knowledge about markets and       Foundation and
          these are vital for exporters towards                                      marketing, in spite of the fact   modification may
          the middle.                                                                that Hortex-promoted export       be made
                                                                                     under the project had             accordingly.
                                                                                     exceeded the World Bank
                                                                                     Project Appraisal target (535
                                                                                     MT) by 124%. It was only
                                                                                     possible through the
                                                                                     marketing support given by
                                                                                     Hortex. It conducted a
                                                                                     number of market research
                                                                                     studies, collected and
                                                                                     disseminated market related
                                                                                     information through
                                                                                     Newsletter and institutional
                                                                                     contacts, identified market
                                                                                     contacts, ascertained market
                                                                                     preferences to assist market
                                                                                     specific production, helped
                                                                                     establish market linkage,
                                                                                     developed quality packaging
                                                                                     materials as per market
                                                                                     requirement, imparted
                                                                                     training to the exporters on
                                                                                     marketing techniques and




                                                            - 41 -

                                                                                         skills, assisted the exporters in
                                                                                         preparing export documents
                                                                                         and communicating with
                                                                                         buyers, helped them
                                                                                         implement necessary
                                                                                         follow-up measures on the
                                                                                         basis of market feedback and
                                                                                         so on and so forth. The
                                                                                         observation, therefore, is
                                                                                         baseless and far from truth
                                                                                         and hence needs to be either
                                                                                         deleted or modified.
Sec. 4.2  The UPIF system worked reasonably        Agreed.                                                                 No comment.
          well. The Partnership activities were    Through UPIF as many as 6860
          coordinated through the UAECC and        small programmes were
          generally compiled with the revised      implemented out of which, a
          extension approach within the            considerable nos. of them having
          framework of NAEP. The UPIF has          innovative ideas and methodologies.
          made a modest impact in promoting        Overall IDA disbursement for this
          local networking and collaboration of    activity was about 91.36 percent at
          the ESPs and facilitating participatory  credit closing.
          approach of the farmers' needs
          assessment, problem identification,      UPIF activities did not suffer and
          program development, prioritization      there was no shortage of matching
          and implementation. Funds were           fund from GoB side. However, in
          received, more or less at quarterly      the last part of the project period
          intervals, and were allocated for        there was shortage of matching
          partnership activities by the UAECC      fund, to some extent, for which full
          according to predetermined               utilization of project aid (IDA
          procedures. The UPIF financed mainly     Funded) could not be possible.
          purchase of inputs (e.g. chicks,
          saplings of fruit trees) for income
          generating activities with extension
          advice. There were however no
          evidence of UPIF inducing innovative
          approaches to extension methodologies
          in the Partnerships. Overall IDA
          disbursement for this activity was
          about 80 percent. The shortfall was
          due to delays in the release of GoB
          matching funds. Some difficulties were
          also reported with the fund release
          procedure. IDA funds were, as
          envisaged, released regularly into a
          bank account operated by the Upazila
          Agriculture Officer in each Upazila.
          The counterpart fund for GoB was
          transferred in the form of a payment
          order to the (UAO) who the
          reimbursed the UAO for authorized
          partnership expenses on submission of
          invoices. Given the very small
          amounts of money involved in the
          GoB funded component of a
          partnership initiative (frequently less
          than US$100.00) this was a complex
          process, and one subject to
          administrative delay and interference.
Sec. 4.2  The implementation of the DPIF and       Some of the DPIF Programmes                                             No comment.
          NPIF was unsatisfactory. In the first    implemented in 2nd phase were very
          year of the project, the EPICC           much successful. Some programmes
          Partnership Unit established to          created notable progress in
          develop and administer the funds         developing co-ordination and
          performed poorly, and was                co-operation among the participatory
          subsequently restructured with           organizations. This established
          responsibility for the two funds largely linkages are expected to be
          transferred to the DFID Technical        continued in implementing their
          Assistance Team (TAT). TAT               respective own programmes in
          managed to develop improved and          future. However, after final
          more transparent mechanisms for the      evaluation of DPIF & NPIF




                                                                 - 42 -

          award of grants. However, the             Programmes, the real out come
          procedures are time consuming and         would be visible. So, it is too early to
          relatively few grants were actually       comment on the effectiveness of
          awarded, with only 33 percent of IDA      DPIF & NPIF Programmes.
          funds utilized at Credit closing.         The approval of Revised Guidelines
          Problems persisted through out the        for utilization of Partnership
          project period with poor quality of       Initiatives Fund took long time from
          proposals despite technical advice.       the World Bank. As a result, a few
          Most of the proposals did not comply      numbers of contracts could be
          with the key principles (innovation,      awarded. The utilization of IDA
          alignment to NAEP, sustainability and     Funds at credit closing was 68%.
          partnership) of the Partnership
          Initiatives Fund (PIF) Most of the
          requests were essentially for very
          traditional extension activities linked
          to the supply of inputs for crop
          production / income generating
          activities. There has been limited
          development of knowledge transfer
          partnerships which may not be
          sufficient to lead to greater Extension
          Service Providers (ESP) collaboration
          in future. There were some concerns
          about targeting the poor.
Sec. 4.2  On-Farm Water Management.                 Agreed.                                      No comment.
                                                    DAE has already started the
                                                    programme in 21 Upazilas of 15
                                                    districts through a separate
                                                    project-Special Programme for
                                                    Food Security (SPFS) with
                                                    Japanese assistance.
Sec. 4.2  Village Level Soil Testing and            Agreed.                                      No comment.
          Fertility Management.                     The sub-project has developed a
                                                    small-scale, low-cost soil testing
                                                    technique, so as to bring soil testing
                                                    within the reach of average farmers
                                                    to enable them to make timely
                                                    decisions on fertilizer management.
Sec. 4.2  Crop Forecasting and Weather              Agreed.                                      No comment.
          Advice.                                   Regarding co-operation and
                                                    co-ordination from partners
                                                    agencies, necessary co-operation
                                                    was available from all the partner
                                                    agencies except BBS. Activities of
                                                    this pilot was highly technical and
                                                    depending on data from both
                                                    National & International sources.
                                                    So as a new area to the DAE
                                                    dependency on foreign and local
                                                    experts were justified. The DAE's
                                                    assigned staff to the pilot
                                                    contributed a lot for implementing
                                                    the program. Most of the trained
                                                    personnels are involved in the
                                                    sub-project activities even after the
                                                    end of the project period and will
                                                    continue to work.
Sec. 5.1  Factors outside the control of            Agreed.                                      No comment.
          government or implementing agency.        Approval of Revised Guidelines for
                                                    Partnership Initiatives programme
                                                    (PIP) from The World Bank took
                                                    long time.
Sec. 5.2  Two factors which partially affected      (a) Project activities did not suffer        No comment.
          implementation were lack of: (a)               much due to shortage of
          counterpart GoB funds for, duties and          counterpart GoB fund. Only at
          taxes and partnership activities; and (b)      the last part of the project period,
          simple disbursement system for                 there was shortage of matching
          government funds.                              fund for which full utilization of
                                                         Project Aid could not be
                                                         possible.




                                                                  - 43 -

                                                  All sorts of GoB fund are released
                                                  following the existing GoB
                                                  procedures. No special complicated
                                                  system was imposed for this project.

Sec. 5.2  FAO financed the cost of local goods    There were sufficient budget                                             No comment.
          and equipment in the pilot programs     provision to pay the required duties
          for which the duties and taxes were to  and taxes for the FAO financed
          be paid by the government. The          goods and equipment.
          relevant line agencies often did not
          have / sufficient budget provision to   In almost all of the Upazilas, the
          pay the required duties and taxes for   post of Upazila Agriculture
          the FAO financed goods and              Officers had been filled up by the
          equipment which led to delays in        Government. In some Upazilas
          procurement. The absence of UAO in      Addl. Agriculture Officers had been
          large number of Upazilas as the         empowered as Upazila Agriculture
          Government failed to fill these posts   Officer. So there were no valid
          due to lack of Government funds         reasons which could affect
          marginally affected the partnership     partnership programme at the
          program at the Upazila level.           Upazila level due to vacancy of
                                                  positions.
Sec. 5.2  The procedures for disbursement of      All types of Government funds are                                        No comment.
          GoB matching funds for the Upazila      released following the existing GoB
          partnership funds were complex. The     procedures. No special complicated
          fund was transferred in the form of     system were imposed for this
          payment order to the Upazila Accounts   project.
          Officer who then reimbursed the UAO
          for authorized partnership expenses on
          submission of invoices. Given the very
          small amount of matching
          Government fund (frequently less than
          US$ 100.00), this complex process
          was subject to administrative
          interference and delays.
Sec. 4.5  The institutional development                                                 It has already been mentioned      No comment.
          impact...... main clients.                                                    against Sl. #4 and 6 that the
                                                                                        observation is not true. It is
                                                                                        only because of the support
                                                                                        given by Hortex that
                                                                                        Bangladeshi high-value crops
                                                                                        are now getting access to
                                                                                        high-price mainstream
                                                                                        markets abroad including
                                                                                        supermarkets like Teresco in
                                                                                        the UK. Significant
                                                                                        development has thus been
                                                                                        made in diversification of
                                                                                        both high-end products and
                                                                                        high-end markets, which has
                                                                                        created a positive
                                                                                        demonstration effect for
                                                                                        others to follow and in fact,
                                                                                        they are increasingly
                                                                                        becoming interested to
                                                                                        replicate. Regarding service
                                                                                        charge, the culture for
                                                                                        payment for technical and
                                                                                        advisory services in
                                                                                        Bangladesh is yet to be
                                                                                        developed, as beneficiaries
                                                                                        feel that it is the responsibility
                                                                                        of the promotional and
                                                                                        supporting organization to
                                                                                        provide such services free of
                                                                                        cost. So obviously, it will
                                                                                        take sometime to develop this
                                                                                        culture and Hortex is trying
                                                                                        to do that. Appropriate
                                                                                        changes should, therefore, be




                                                               - 44 -

                                                                                          made in the observation.
Sec. 5.2  The lack of inter-agency cooperation    Agreed.                                                                  No comment.
          affected the implementation of the crop BBS supplied crop production an yield
          yield forecasting and                   data but did not open their clusters to
          Agro-meteorology pilot sub-project.     DAE.
          Mechanisms for fostering more
          co-operation between DAE and Crop
          Monitoring Forecasting Group
          (CMFG) and BBS for crop production
          and yield data collection were absent.
          BMD could not provide historical
          meteorological data on time. MoF and
          FPMU should have been involved
          early on in the identification and
          verification of the value of the
          information in the monthly bulletins.
Sec. 5.3  The effectiveness of HORTEX..                                                   The observation here also is a   No comment.
          needed to help it .                                                             repetition and far from truth.
                                                                                          Most of the recommendations
                                                                                          of the external experts were
                                                                                          implemented and adequate
                                                                                          marketing support was
                                                                                          channelised to the beneficiary
                                                                                          organizations through
                                                                                          in-house marketing expertise
                                                                                          which has already been
                                                                                          explained against Sl. Nos. 4,6
                                                                                          and 7. It is, therefore, unkind
                                                                                          to make such an observation
                                                                                          once again, which very much
                                                                                          undermines the performance
                                                                                          of Hortex and belittles the
                                                                                          positive support provided by
                                                                                          it. Even, the observation
                                                                                          undermines the independent
                                                                                          Impact Evaluation Study,
                                                                                          which says that Hortex
                                                                                          performance in 9 out of 11
                                                                                          objectives (82%) and 4 out of
                                                                                          4 targets (100%) has been
                                                                                          satisfactory. The World Bank
                                                                                          Review/ Implementation
                                                                                          Mission from time to time
                                                                                          also expressed satisfaction
                                                                                          with Hortex activities. The
                                                                                          observation, therefore, needs
                                                                                          to be revised to reflect the
                                                                                          factual situation.
Sec. 5.4  Cost and financing                      The DFID provision was £ 9.24                                            GOB contribution
                                                  million and as per PP GoB                                                should be
                                                  contribution was Tk. 32.69 Crore                                         reflected.
                                                  (Equivalent to US$ 7.03 million).
Sec. 6.1  Rationale for sustainable rating.       Agreed.                                                                  The Export oriented
                                                  The government has not taken any                                         Integrated
                                                  decision not to finance for                                              Horticulture
                                                  partnership activities.                                                  Development
                                                                                                                           project is included
                                                  As per recommendations of the                                            in the list of project
                                                  workshop held before closing of the                                      in ADP for
                                                  project activities of Crop Yield                                         2003-04. The
                                                  Forecasting & Agro-meteorology                                           Hortex foundation
                                                  has been continuing with the trained                                     has been identified
                                                  manpower of DAE                                                          as one of the
                                                                                                                           implementing
                                                  Regarding coordination among the                                         Agencies of this
                                                  Ministries/Agencies- necessary                                           project. DAE has
                                                  co-operation and co-ordination from                                      been pursuing 3
                                                  the partner Ministries/ Agencies                                         pilot programs
                                                  were available except BBS. So it is                                      developed under
                                                  too early to make such comments                                          LIL. However




                                                               - 45 -

                                              on sustainability of the project                                      MOA is actively
                                              activities. So the word "Unlikely"                                    represented in the
                                              may be omitted.                                                       food planning and
                                                                                                                    Monitoring
                                                                                                                    Committee to assess
                                                                                                                    Crops Estimates at
                                                                                                                    the National Level.
Sec. 6.2  Transition arrangement to regular   Agreed.                                                               MOA with extend
          operations.                                                                                               cooperation to such
                                                                                                                    endeavors.
Sec. 7.1  Bank: Lending                       Agreed.                                                               No comment.
Sec. 7.2  Supervision                         Agreed.                                                               No comment.
Sec. 7.3  Overall Bank performance            Agreed.                                                               No comment.
Sec. 7.5  Government implementation           The performance of Ministry of                                        Endorsed The
          performance                         Agriculture was always satisfactory                                   views of DAE.
                                              for proper implementation of the
                                              project. So the word "marginally"
                                              may be omitted.
                                              As per ToR, the meetings of
                                              Inter-Ministerial Project Steering
                                              Committee of ASIRP are being held
                                              regularly.
                                              At the beginning of the project
                                              period, there were some confusions
                                              among the partner agencies
                                              regarding the ownership of the
                                              EPICC. But subsequently with
                                              some modifications in TORs, the
                                              situation improved considerably at
                                              every tires.
Sec. 7.6  Implementing Agency:                The overall activities of the project  It is a miserly statement and  Endorsed The
          The overall performance is rated    have been assessed as satisfactory     even negates the observations  views of DAE.
          marginally satisfactory             by the ICR Mission which has been      of the World Bank made in
                                              reflected in other areas of report     various Review/
                                              may be omitted.                        Implementation Mission
                                                                                     reports.
                                              So the word "marginally" may be
                                              omitted.                               "The World Bank
                                                                                     Implemen-tation Review
                                                                                     Mission (September
                                                                                     10-October 5, 2000) in their
                                                                                     Aide Memoire dated
                                                                                     December 11, 2000
                                                                                     mentioned that "overall
                                                                                     progress of this component is
                                                                                     satisfactory. In the same way,
                                                                                     the World Bank Mid Term
                                                                                     Review Mission (April
                                                                                     08-May 31, 2001) in their
                                                                                     Aide Memoire dated June 11,
                                                                                     2001 also mentioned that,
                                                                                     "satisfactory progress has
                                                                                     been made in the horticultural
                                                                                     export promotion under
                                                                                     Hortex." Furthermore, the
                                                                                     World Bank Implementation
                                                                                     Review Mission (November 4
                                                                                     ­ December 01, 2001) in
                                                                                     their Aide Memoire dated
                                                                                     December 20, 2001 observed
                                                                                     that "Hortex has made good
                                                                                     progress in production,
                                                                                     processing, employment
                                                                                     generation and export
                                                                                     promotion of horticultural
                                                                                     products." Likewise, the
                                                                                     World Bank Interim Review
                                                                                     Mission (March 24 ­ April
                                                                                     07, 2002) in their Aide
                                                                                     Memoire dated June 24, 2002




                                                           - 46 -

                                                                                 observed that "since the last
                                                                                 review, Hortex made further
                                                                                 progress and exceeded its
                                                                                 export target of fresh fruits
                                                                                 and vegetables" In their final
                                                                                 Implementation Review
                                                                                 Mission Aide Memoire dated
                                                                                 November 7, 2002 in the
                                                                                 same way, the World Bank
                                                                                 eulogized Hortex
                                                                                 performance saying "during
                                                                                 the last three years of Hortex
                                                                                 operation, good progress has
                                                                                 been made in project
                                                                                 implementation,
                                                                                 establishment of its reputation
                                                                                 at home and a trademark
                                                                                 (logo) in the international
                                                                                 markets."
Sec. 7.6  Procurement Management           In section 8 lesson learnt:                                           No comment.
                                           Partnership Programmes­ is it true
                                           that Upazila grant are "not cost
                                           effective ?"
                                           Para 4.1 states they have shown
                                           low cost promise, last Para page 7
                                           states "modest impact" .
                                           So the observation not cost effective
                                           may be omitted.
Sec. 7.6  Financial Management             A "Computerized Financial                                             No comment.
                                           Management System in DAE" has
                                           been set up with the assistance of
                                           the same consultants who installed
                                           the system in HORTEX
                                           Foundation. The review team of
                                           ASIRP (Nov. 04 -- 28,2001)
                                           observed with satisfaction the
                                           advancement of computerized
                                           system in DAE. The installation of
                                           the system followed by trial test and
                                           demonstration was already in place.
Sec. 7.7  Overall Borrower Performance     Agreed.                                                               No comment.
Sec. 08   Partnership Programmes           The sentence may "Competitive                                         Needs further
                                           grant funding partnerships of ESP                                     clarification as
                                           in Bangladesh is not effective" may                                   proposal by DAE.
                                           be modified & needs further
                                           clarification. Moreover, contents of
                                           the para seems to be antagonistic
                                           with the previous sections where
                                           mission rated the progress as
                                           acceptable & satisfactory.
Sec. 08   Pilot Sub-Projects               Agreed.                                                               No comment.
Annex-1   Out put indicators:              Agreed.                                                               As proposed by
Column-3  The Actual/Latest Estimate.      The number of GO/NGOs                                                 DAE.
                                           Partnership programme at district
                                           level under DPIF would be 87
                                           (IDA Funded-26 & DFID
                                           Funded-61) and the partnership
                                           contracts at national level under
                                           NPIF is 19.
Annex-2   Project Financing by Component   The actual cost against GoB would     Against Hortex, no              As proposed by
Column-3  (in US$ million equivalent).     be US$ 0.37 million.                  co-financing is shown. This is  DAE.
                                                                                 not factual. As required under
                                                                                 DCA, Hortex made a
                                                                                 payment of Tk.26.34 lakhs in
                                                                                 local currency as co-financing
                                                                                 under the project against an
                                                                                 estimate of Tk.28.20 lakh in
                                                                                 the PP. This needs to be
                                                                                 reflected.
Annex-6   Implementation agency            In section 7.6 under Para 1 of page   Implementation agency           Endorsed The



                                                        - 47 -

Sec. 6.2  performance :"Unsatisfactory".    12, the overall performance of the   performance has been shown         views of DAE.
Page21                                      implementing agency by the           unsatisfactory, which is unjust
                                            mission has been stated as           and unfounded, as explained
                                            marginally satisfactory which is not earlier. It rightfully deserves to
                                            acceptable to us.                    be updated.
                                            In section 6.2 under Annex-6 of
                                            page 21 regarding performance by
                                            the implementing agency has been
                                            rated as unsatisfactory which seems
                                            to be contradictory. So the words "
                                            unsatisfactory" and "marginally"
                                            may be replaced by "satisfactory".




                                                        - 48 -

- 49 -

