Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3284 BD
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
HORTICULTURAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
Dated September 30, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3284 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and Horticultural Export Development Foundation, 
(hereinafter called Hortex).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People’s Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing  Rights 
(SDR3,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on conditions that Hortex agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and Hortex, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to Hortex on the terms and conditions set 
forth in said Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS Hortex, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Page  2
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Hortex declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for its part of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Hortex shall otherwise agree, Hortex shall carry out 
its part of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Hortex shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Part A of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Hortex shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and Hortex, a plan for the future 
operation of its part of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with Hortex on said plan.
Section 2.04. Hortex shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Hortex shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) Hortex shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of its part of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Hortex shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its part of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Hortex of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Hortex
Section 3.01. Hortex shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and agricultural practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Hortex shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and agricultural practices.
Section 3.03. Hortex shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Page  3
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Hortex shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
Hortex shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year,\0b(A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, Hortex shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, Hortex shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable Hortex, not later than January 1, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable 
to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)  (A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
Page  4
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, Hortex shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Hortex thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Hortex of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Hortex:
Hortex Foundation
3/1 Block B, Lalmatia, Dhaka -1207
Bangladesh
Telex:
642226 SETU BJ
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Hortex, may be 
taken or executed by the Managing Director or such other person or persons as the 
Managing Director shall designate in writing, and Hortex shall furnish to the 
Page  5
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mohsin Alikhan
Acting Country Director, Bangladesh
HORTICULTURAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT
     FOUNDATION 
By /s/ Abul Quasem
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
Hortex shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of its part of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, 2001 a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out its part of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out its part of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by May 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of its 
part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
