Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3284 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 30, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3284 BD 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1999, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and  
(B)
the Borrower hasintends to obtained from the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland (United Kingdom), acting through the Department for 
International Development (DfID) a grant (the DfID Grant) in an amount of British 
Pound Sterling  9,244,000  of which about $6,900,000 equivalent will be used to assist 
in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the DfID Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the United 
Kingdom on May 31, 1999; and 
(C)
the Borrower (i) has obtainedintends to obtain from the Food and 
Agricultural Organization (FAO) a grant (the FAO Grant) in an amount of $338,000 to 
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the FAO Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and FAO on 
June 30, 1999; and (ii) intends to obtain from FAO a second grant in the amount of 
$241,900 for South-South cooperation in the exchange of technical personnel, of which 
about $193,000 will be used to finance part of the Project;  
(D)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Horticultural Export 
Development Foundation (HORTEXHortex) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to HORTEX part of the proceeds of 
the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and  
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
Page  2
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and HORTEX;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through \0bDecember 
2, 1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:.
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
"12. ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
"DAE" means the Department of Agricultural Extension within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture; 
(b)
"HORTEX" means the Horticultural Export Development Foundation, a body 
corporate established and existing under the Bangladesh Companies Act, 1913, (amended 
in 1994); 
(c)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
HORTEX of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(d)
"Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and HORTEX pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules or 
agreements supplemental to the Subsidiary Grant Agreement;
(e)
"Trust Fund Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and FAO, with the concurrence of the Association under which FAO would 
provide agreed services, financed from the proceeds of the Credit, for assisting the 
Borrower in carrying out Part C of the Project, and would establish trust fund 
accounts for this purpose; 
(f)
NGOs" means non-governmental organizations established and operating in 
the Borrower’s territory; 
(g)
Extension Policy Implementation Coordinating Committee (EPICC), District 
Extension Partnerships Programming Committees (DEPCs), and Thana Agricultural 
Extension Coordinating Committees (TAECCs) mean committees established in 1997 at the 
National, District, and Thana levels respectively, each including representatives of 
DAE, other government agencies involved in extension, NGOs and the private sector; 
(h)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
Page  3
(i)
"FY" means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on July 1 and ending on 
June 30; and 
(j)
"TK" means Taka, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Taka two separate special deposit accounts (the DAE Special Account and the HORTEX 
Special Account) in commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of each respective Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2003 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 2010 and ending August 1, 2039. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on AugustAugust 1, 2019 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
Page  4
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall 
carry out Parts B, C and D of  the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project and (ii) without any limitation or 
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, 
shall cause HORTEX to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of HORTEX therein set forth with respect to Part A of 
the Project, shall take and cause to be taken all actions, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable 
HORTEX to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere such performance. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts B, C and D of the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to cCategory (1) of Schedule 1 to this Aagreement to HORTEX under a 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and HORTEX, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, which shall 
include, inter alia, those set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement and in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Associations, comply with its obligations under this Agreement, and accomplish the 
purpose of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or 
any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
Page  5
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying 
out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into trust fund agreements, 
satisfactory to the Association, under which FAO would provide agreed services with 
respect to those portions of Part C to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit and 
would establish trust fund accounts for this purpose.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of its part of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for its part of 
the Project in order to enable the Borrower, not later than January 1,20011, 2001 or 
such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for its 
part of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds 
for its part of the Project for the six-month period following the 
Page  6
period covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under its part of the Project 
and expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V  
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
HORTEX shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that HORTEX will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:  
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and  
(b)
the event specified in paragraphs (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
Page  7
(a)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the DfID Grant Agreement 
and the FAO Grant Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been 
fulfilled; and  
(b)
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and HORTEX and TK 5 million has been deposited by the Borrower into a 
revolving fund to be operated by HORTEX.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
HORTEX, and is legally binding upon HORTEX in accordance with its terms; and  
(b)
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and HORTEX and is legally binding upon the Borrower and HORTEX in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint 
Secretary, Joint Chief, Deputy Secretary, Deputy Chief, Senior Assistant Secretary, 
Assistant Secretary, Senior Assistant Chief, Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations 
Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
672796 SETU BJ
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ Khondkar Tajuddin Ahmed 
Page  8
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mohsin Alikhan
Acting Country Director, Bangladesh
South Asia Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Part A of the Project
(a)  Goods
   228,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 70% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(b)  Civil works
    76,000
90%
(c)  Consultants’ services 684,000
100%
            (including private auditors),
     training and international 
            travel
(d)  Operating costs
   684,000
100% in FY2000;FY99 and
FY2000; 95% in FY2001;
FY2001; and 90%
thereafter
(2)
Part B of the Project
(a)  Thana Partnerships Grants 
     under 
   836,000
 
50%
     Part B.1
(b)  District Partnerships 
     Grants
   456,000
            under Part B.2 in 
     the three 
     Districts of the 
     Borrower agreed
     agreed with the 
     Association
       (i)  goods 
70%
       (ii)  other than goods 
100%
(3) 
Part C of the Project
100%
       expenditures under Trust Fund 
       Agreements 
Page  9
(a) Part C1 and C2
  332,000
(b) Part C3
        345,000
(4) 
Unallocated
  159,000
TOTAL
      3,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term "operating costs" means salaries and allowances of HORTEX staff 
and Governing Board, costs of rental of facilities and equipment, local travel and 
vehicle maintenance and repair, office supplies and utilities, costs of pilot 
production demonstrations and export transportation, and others recurrent costs of 
HORTEX operations.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
37,000, may be made in respect of Category 1 on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1999; (b) under cCategory (3) (a), or 
(b) prior to approval by the Association of the Trust Fund Agreement pertaining to 
Parts C1 and C2, or C3 respectively and appointment  of f a Ssubproject Coordinators 
director for the respective at components. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures: (a) for goods and works 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) for training, travel 
and operating costs; and (c) for consultants’ services under contracts not exceeding 
the equivalent of $100,000 in the case of firms, and $50,000 in the case of 
individuals, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to achieve higher 
agricultural productivity and incomes through production intensification and 
diversification, and, to that effect, to test and refine various agricultural 
technology transfer programs designed to foster more demand-driven and locally 
responsive technology transfer methodologies, to provide relevant advice to farmers, 
and to increase horticultural exports.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectivees;:
Part A:
Support to Pioneering Horticultural Production and Export Activities
Provision of support though HORTEX to pioneering horticultural production and 
export activities through provision of catalytic technical services, logistical 
services (such as refrigerated transport), training, market intelligence, exhibitions, 
study tours, and seminars.
Part B:
Extension Partnerships Programs
Pilot programs for encouraging extension partnerships among DAE, NGOs and other 
government agencies, through:
(1)
Thana level partnerships programs under the control of TAECCs, including local 
representatives from DAE, NGOs, local government, and other government agencies;
(2)
District Level Partnership Grants, to be provided in twelve districts, on a 
Page  10
competitive basis, based upon proposals received from TAECCs; and 
(3)
National Partnerships Programs, for provision of services by NGOs as requested 
by TAECCs or DEPCs, to facilitate NGO/government agency/private sector cooperative 
extension activities..
Part C:
Small Scale Pilot Agricultural Technology Transfer Trial and 
Demonstration Programs
Trial and demonstration programs in (1) improved on-farm water management, (2) 
village level soil fertility management; and (3) crop forecasting and weather advice 
to farmers.
Part D:
Monitoring and Evaluation 
Monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the programs under Parts B and C of 
the Project through studies by DAE staff and by consultants, and equipment and 
technical assistance to strengthen DAE monitoring and evaluation capacity.
**
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule of this Section I. In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the 
Guidelines, the references to "Bank member countries" and "member country" shall be 
deemed to be references, respectively, to "Participating Countries" and "Participating 
Country."
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. The following provisions shall apply 
to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and 
civil works estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or more per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent for all goods and works, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
The provisions under the following subparagraph (c) shall apply to goods 
and works to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 1.
(c)
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines: 
Page  11
(i)
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely 
circulated national daily newspaper, at least 30 days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids;
(ii)
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are willing to pay the required fee;
(iii)
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
criteria disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and 
specified period agreed by the Association;
(iv)
bids shall be opened in public in one place, immediately after the 
deadline for submission of bids;
(v)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders;
(vi)
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualification was not carried 
out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and, if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm declared as the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity of 
registering, without let or hindrance; 
(vii)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders;
(viii)post bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or any other bidders;  
(xix)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
(x)
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Association's 
prior concurrence; 
(xi)
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in the bidding/contract documents;
(xii)
a bidder’s Bid Security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the specific 
contract under which it was furnished;  
(xiii)bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost; 
(xiv)
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed unless justified by 
exceptional circumstances; and
(xv)
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of 
the bids.
2.
International or National Shopping 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed US$200,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international/national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; and  
(b)
Minor civil works for Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 
equivalent, may be procured through obtaining 3 quotations from qualified national 
contractors. 
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies  Goods and services for pPart C of the project may 
be procured by FAO under a trust fund agreement in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Off-the-Shelf
Goods estimated to cost less than $1,500 may be procured by single source 
methods.
Page  12
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
Prior Review 
With respect to the first two contracts for goods or works procured under NCB 
procedures, and thereafter each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the following 
provisions of of the following Parts of this Section II of this Schedule.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country."
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single-Source Selection 
Services for Part C of the Project provided by FAO under trust fund agreements 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for Part A of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Page  13
Services for consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5.
Services of NGOs
Services of NGOs, not exceeding $30,000 per contract, for work under Part B of 
the Project may be procured under competitive grant procedures acceptable to pproved 
by the Association, as such procedures may be adjusted from time to time in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants Selection Planning 
1.
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, or amendments to contracts 
raising the contract value above $100,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, or amendments to 
contracts raising the contract value above US$50,000 equivalent, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of its part of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of its part of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of its part of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
and
(c)
review with the Association, by May 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of its 
part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
2.
In carrying out Partt B (1) (a) and B (2)(b), the Borrower shall employ policies 
and procedures for award and administration of grants acceptable to the Association.  
The Borrower shall annually review the effectiveness of these policies and procedures, 
based on the results of the prior years activities, and adjust such policies and 
Page  14
procedures, in consultation with the Association, based on the results of such review.
SCHEDULE 5 
Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Grant Agreement
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Subsidiary Grant Agreement 
shall, inter alia provide that:
(a)
For purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project,T the Borrower shall 
provide a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to HORTEX as a grant for purpose of 
carrying out Part A of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall provide to HORTEX as a grant adequate funds (not from 
the proceeds of the Credit) to finance duties and taxes on imported goods and 
consultant services, 30% o percent off the cost of goods procured off-the-shelf and 10 
percent of the expenditures incurred on account of civil works to be carried out under 
the Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall provide to HORTEX as a grant TK 5 million to establish 
a revolving fund for financing expenditures prior to receipt of reimbursements from 
the Credit.
(d)
The Borrower shall suspend or terminate the right of HORTEX to the use of 
the proceeds of the Credit upon: 
(i)
failure by HORTEX to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, or upon 
notice by the Association to the Borrower that it intends to 
exercise any of its remedies under Section 6.02 and 7.01 of the 
General Conditions or Article V of the Development Credit 
Agreement; or 
(ii)
upon notice by HORTEX that it intends to terminate the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement, or upon the actual termination of the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement, whichever occurs first.
(e)
HORTEX to charge for provision of inputs to contract farmers or 
entrepreneurs, after the first successful year of demonstrating a new productcrop in 
an area, at a level sufficient to cover the full cost of such inputs plus a service 
charge.
(f)
HORTEX to charge for the provision of logistical services (such as 
provision of refrigerated transport facilities) amounts which would be sufficient to 
cover operational costs and amortized capital costs assuming 80%  percent use of 
capacity.
(g)
Any HORTEX program beyond the current trial shipments, to support 
contracts for the export of products from the Chittagong Hill Tracts would, in accord 
with the Borrower’s policies for participation of tribal population in decision 
making, be taken in consultation with the respective councils in the relevant areas to 
support contracts for the export of products from the Chittagong Hill Tracts would be 
in accord with the Borrower’s policies for inclusion of tribal peoples in decision 
making regarding projects in their areas.
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 2 and 3 set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of DAE Special Account 
and Category 1 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
in respect of HORTEX Special Account.
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means in respect of each Special 
Page  15
Account, an amount equivalent to the dollar figure specified below for each such 
Special Account, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule: (i) DAE 
Special Account, TK9,600,000; (ii) HORTEX Special Account TK14,400,000, provided, 
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to TK4,800,000 in respect of the DAE Special 
Account and an amount equivalent to TK7,200,000 in respect of the HORTEX Special 
Account until (i) in respect of the DAE Special Account, the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from categories 2 and 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association with 
respect to these Categories pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 500,000, and (ii) in respect of the HORTEX 
Special Account, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from Category 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association with respect to this Category pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 600,000. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the respective Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower or HORTEX shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Sections 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement and of the Project Agreement, respectively, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Sections in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
Page  16
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
