Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14945-GRD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GRENADA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
NOVEMBER 29, 1995
Country Department III
Human Resources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUiVALENTS
Currency Unit = Eastern Canbbean Dollars (EC)
EC 1.00= US$
US$ 1.00= EC 2.70
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September - July
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CDB           Canrbbean Development Bank
CDU           Curriculum Development Unit
CEE           Common Entrance Examination
CEO           Chief Education Officer
CGCED         Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
CXC           Caribbean Examinations Council
EC$           Eastern Caribbean Dollars
EMU           Educational Materials Unit
EO            Education Officer
EPU           Education Planning and Statistics Unit
ET'X          Educational Testing and Examinations Unit
GCE           General Certificate of Education
ICB           International Competititive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
JSS           Junior Secondary School
LIB           Limited International Bidding
MOE           Ministry of Education
MOF           Ministry of Finance
NCB           National Competititive Bidding
OECS          Organization of the Eastern Caribbean States
OERS          OECS Education Reform Strategy
PAC           Project Advisory Committee
PEO           Principal Education Officer
PHRD          Policy and Human Resource Development (Japan Government Grant)
PIM           Project Implementation Manual
PMU           Project Management Unit
SAASS         St. Andrew's Anglican Secondary School
SBD           Standard Bidding Documents
SEO           Senior Education Officer
SCL           Single Currency Loan
SLC           School Leaving Certificate
TAMCC         T.A. Marryshow Community College
TTC           Teacher Training College
UWI           University of the West Indies



GRENADA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Table of Contents
LOAN  AND  CREDIT  AND  PROJECT  SU MMARY ......................................................  
BASIC DATA SHEET ....................................................                                                                    X V
1. BACKGROUND .....................................................1
2. SECTORAL CONTEXT .....................................................2
A. CURRENT EDUCATIONAL SITUATION ....................................................2
B. THE  ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK ...............................................4
3. SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY .....................................................                                                   6
A .  IssU ES . ...................................................                                                                               6
(1) Quality and Effectiveness of Teaching and Learning.                                      ....................................................6
(2) Efficiency of the Educational System ....................................................                                              11
(3) Equity ofAccess to Educational Opportunities ....................................................                                      12
B. GO VERNMENT SECTOPRAL POLICY AND FINANCING ....................................................                                             13
4. SECTORAL ASSISTANCE STRATEGY .................................................... 15
A. THE BANK'S ROLE AND STRATEGY ....................................................                                                            15
B. BANK  SECTOR EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED ....................................................                                            16
5. THE PROJECT ....................................................                                                                             18
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND CONCEPT .................................................... 18
B. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION ....................................................                                                           19
6. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN ....................................................                                                        29
A. PROJFCT COSTS ..................................................... 29
B. RECURRENT COSTS AND PROJECT SUSTAINABELITY ....................................................                                             30
C. FINANCING PLAN ....................................................                                                                         32
7. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................................................                                                                 33
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION .................................................... 33
B. INSTITTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS .................................................... 34
C. IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM  ....................................................                                                                34
D. PROCUREMENT ....................................................                                                                            34
E. DISBURSEMENTS AND ACCOUNTS ....................................................                                                             39
F. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, ACCOUNTING AND AuDITS ....................                                          ................................ 41
G. PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION  ................................... .                                                 ............... 41
(1) Project Performance Reporting ....................................................                                                     41
(2) Project Reviews ....................................................                                                                   42
H. PROJECT SUPERVISION .................................................... 42
1. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ....................................................                                                                   43



8. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS ............................................ 44
A. BENEFITs ............................................                                       44
B. RiSKS ............................................ 44
9. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........................ .................... 46
A. AGREEMENTS REACHED ............................................                             46
B. RECOMMENDATION ............................................                                 47
ANNEXES AND APPENDICES .....................                                                   48
This report is based on sector discussions over the period Februaiy- October 1995 between the Governmcnt and
the Bank and Association and CDB. A reconmaissance/identification mission of Febnrary 1995 was fbllowed by
a Bank preparation mission of April 1995. Some studies on the education sector in Grenada were undertaken by
international experts over the period June-October 1995. A June 1995 mission consisting of Mr. Ralph Romain
(Principal Education Specialist, HDD), and Mr. Marco Mantovanelli (LA3HR consultant) appraised the project.
Ms. Karen Lashman, who conducted the February identification mission, assisted in reviewing the Report. Ms.
Marie-Christine Theodore provided support in document production. Peer reviewers, Ms. Marlaine Lockheed
(HDD) and Mr. Richard Cambndge (SA2DR), reviewed the IEPS for the OECS Basic Education Project from
which this project was developed. The Department Director, Project Adviser and Sector Division Chief are
Messieurs Paul Isenman, Robert Crown, and Julian Schweitzer respectively.
GRENADA
.i.



GRENADA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
LOAN AND CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Government of Grenada
Implementing Agency:.      Ministry of Education
Beneficiary:               Ministry of Education
Poverty:                   Not applicable
Amount:                    Loan of US$3.80 million equivalent
Credit of SDR2.60 (US$3.80 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard amortization term grace period, and interest rate for fixed rate
US dollar single currency loans with an expected disbursement period of
3-6 years; and Credit repayment in 35 years including a grace period of
10 years, at standard IDA terms.
Commitment Fee:            For loan, 0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver; for credit 0.50% on undisbursed credit
balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:            IBRD/IDA US$7.6 million equivalent -- Government US$2.3 million
equivalent
Net Present Value:         Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No 14945 - GRD
Map:                       IBRD No. 27847
Project Identification
Number:                    GD-PA-43923
iii



BASIC DATA SHEET
See Amnex I
iv



GRENADA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
1.1    Grenada is the most southerly member country of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
(OECS), with an estimated population of 91,000 in 1993. The country has traditionally depended on
agriculture (nutmeg, mace, cocoa and bananas) and its beaches and scenery offer potential for tourism
development. In the period 1983-88, real GDP growth was about five percent. Because of reduced prices
for nutmegs (the main agricultural crop) and deteriorating public finances, this growth slowed over the
period 1989-91, arrears accumulated and public sector imbalances widened. In 1992, the Government
carried out a "home grown adjustment program" which improved the overall public sector balance and
reduced total arrears. The size of the civil service was reduced and some State enterprises were privatized.
By 1994, with improvement in fiscal performance and in the management of debt and arrears, Grenada was
considered creditworthy for Bank lending. The economy is projected to grow by 2-3% over the medium
term, limited by power and water shortages that constrain tourism development, a still fragile fiscal
situation, and low prices for nutmegs. Social indicators reflect relatively high standards of living, although
some pockets of poverty exist. CDB is conducting a poverty assessment and the results are expected early
in 1996. Environmental awareness is high. Basic economic and social data on the country are provided in
Annex 1.
1.2    The country faces a difficult period of economic transition that will depend largely on success in
developing its human resources so as to produce for the labor force persons with a good general education,
who can be trained and adapt themselves to take advantage of emerging opportunities in areas such as
information, banking and tourism and to be more productive in the traditional areas such as agriculture.
For this to be achieved, standards of education and learning must be raised significantly through a major
reform of the education sector, with special attention to enhancing the effectiveness and efficiency of the
education system, and the equity of access to educational opportunities.
1.3   In order to promote growth, the Govemment needs to (a) continue to increase public savings, by
simplifying the tax structure, and broadening the tax base, lowering domestic debt service, persevering with
the retrenchment program and avoiding general wage increases; (b) enhance private sector led growth by
increased investment in the power and water sectors and improvement in the incentive regime and
regulatory framework; and (c) address the issues in education which are principally (i) the weakness of
sector management and planning, (ii) qualitative shortcomings (particularly in primary and secondary
education) and (iii) the shortage of places in basic education, especially at the secondary level.
1



2. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Current Educational Situation
2.1    With strong Government commitment to education in Grenada, recurrent budgetary allocations to
the sector have been about 17 percent--somewhat more modest than the 22-25 percent level in St. Lucia,
but generally above world averages. During the austerity of the "home grown adjustment program" of
1992-94, the education sector suffered its share of budget cuts, especially in areas such as management and
maintenance that usually result in long term weaknesses. Yet, the system has its strengths. In the public
sector, there are 59 public primary schools (of which 16 are Government and the rest denominational), four
centers (for home economics and industrial arts) and two schools for the handicapped; the private sector
has 15 primary schools accommodating 617 children. These schools, therefore, accommodated 23,027
students overall in 1993-94 or about 95 percent of the 5-15 age group. Thus, the country has achieved
almost universal primary education. There are 75 pre-school centers (including some that share primary
school premises). There are also 18 public secondary schools (six government and 12 government-
assisted--including Anglican, Catholic, Seventh Day Adventist and Methodist) and one private secondary
school. These accommodated 7,205 students in 1993-94 or 78 percent of the estimated 9,220 in the 12-16
age cohort (Annex 2 Table 1). However, this enrollment included some 1,646 students who were 17+ years
of age and so the net enrollment ratio was only 60 percent.
2.2    The actual number of children enrolled in primary schools has been falling slightly but steadily in
recent years, partly because of absorption (although on a limited scale) of children at age 12+ into the
secondary schools, but mainly because of spasmodic emigration and a slowdown in population growth. It
is also believed that some children of school age are not enrolled, although these numbers are not
considerable. Declines are projected from 1996 onward in the 5-14 age group, following an increase
between 1991 and 1996.
2.3    There are inequities in access to learning opportunities. Many primary schools are seriously
overcrowded, particularly in and around St. George's (the capital city) and Grenville and this hampers
delivery of good quality education. The project preparatory school location planning exercise indicated that
there was no need to expand capacity at the primary level, but noted also that many of the existing places
are in an unsatisfactory state of repair. Serious access problems also exist at the secondary school level.
The distribution of secondary school places favors St. George's and this imposes high transport costs on
families in the more remote areas of the country.
2.4    As in the OECS countries and in the Caribbean generally, access to secondary school places is
govemed by a competitive Common Entrance Examination (CEE), commonly known as the 11 + exam,
given at the end of Grade 6. The stakes on this exam are exceptionally high, as perceived by students,
parents and teachers. "Succeeding" in the CEE -- gaining a secondary school place -- is the main drive
among primary teachers and students, particularly at the upper grade levels, thereby distorting teaching
practices away from mastery of the curriculum and toward the areas to be tested by the examination.
2



2.5    The number of children admitted to the first year of secondary schools corresponds to less than half
of the number of CEE candidates and to the number of available places rather than to any pass mark.'
Hence, the low transition rates from primary to secondary reflect constraints in the supply of places not in
the demand for them. In recent years that demand has been met by expanding existing secondary schools
and converting Junior secondary (three-year lower cycle) schools into five-year schools, so that, despite
fluctuations from year to year, an enrollment increase of 20.8 percent has occurred over the period 1980-
1994. (Annex 2, Table 2).
2.6    Large numbers of children each year have little choice after age 11 but to continue in all-age
primary schools (in a post primary program supplemented by practical subject centers for home economics
and industrial arts). These students account for 20 percent of the total primary enrollment. The shortages
of qualified teachers to serve these post-primary sections of primary schools, coupled with the lower
standards applied in the curriculum itself, suggest limited value-added to the education of youth in the
program. For most of these students, this schooling is the terminal point in their formal education. A
fortunate few receive a second chance in the 14+ examination known as the School Leaving Examination,
on the results of which they may be placed in available places at regular secondary schools,2 graduating
from the secondary school one year later than if they had entered through the CEE.
2.7    The repeater rate at secondary level is about 13 percent and is highest in the upper Forms (3-5).
The policy on grade repetition is not centrally controlled and some schools allow no repeating of Form 5;
however, some 23 percent of the secondary enrollment are beyond the age of 16. The dropout rate is low--
only 112 or 1.6 percent of enrollment dropped out in 1992-93, which translates into a completion rate of
about 92 percent, reflecting, in part, the great importance attached by society to such education. At
primary level, the dropout rate is negligible--less than 1.3 percent in 1992-93; however, the repeater rate is
high (10 percent), principally in the early grades and at the stage of the CEE and School Leaving
Certificate examinations.
2.8    Despite the progress made to date in expanding access to secondary education, the overall shortfall
in places remains significant. With the current cohort of secondary school age, the total number of
secondary places would have to be increased by 3,661 or almost 40 percent to secure universal access to
secondary education. Thus, even with the planned addition of 665 secondary places under this project,
universal coverage of this age group would not be attainable until the first decade of the next century unless
significant additional resources can be mobilized and efficiency measures adopted with respect to the
utilization of teachers and physical facilities.
'Only one secondary school does not always manage to fill all available places and this is because it is in so
remote area.
20f the 598 candidates who sat this exam from primary schools in 1994, 108 passed and 43 of these were placed
in 10 secondary schools. A further 28 were placed in the T.A. Marryshow Community College and the St.
Patrick's Training Center.
3



B. The Organizational Structure and Institutional Framework
2.9    Organizational Structure of the School System. As in other countries in the sub-region, the
education system is organized into four principal levels--pre-school, primary, secondary and tertiary
education (Annex 2. Chart 1: Structure of the School System).
2.10   For the purposes of this Report, Basic Education comprises the primary grades and the lower cycle
of secondary education (Grades 1-9). Pre-school education is voluntary and still in its early stages of
development. An estimated 3,600 children or about 50 percent of the 3-4 age group attend at least some
pre-school programs, which are privately financed, with the Government paying towards the cost of
temporary teaching and auxiliary staff3. Students commence their compulsory education cycle at five years
of age at the primnary level which is organized into seven classes called "grades" in Grenada, ending at
"Grade 7" which corresponds to Grade 6 in international terms4. For children not continuing to secondary
schools, the primary schools offer a senior primary section leading to the School Leaving Certificate.
2.11   Secondary schools offer a five-year course of study, organized into a lower cycle (Forms 1-3) and
an upper cycle (Forms 4-5). Upon completion of Form 5, students sit the Caribbean Examinations Council
(CXC) and/or General Certification of Education (GCE) Examination and those who perform well enough
have the option of either moving into tertiary education or, along with other graduates, going into select
jobs in the public and private sectors.
2.12   The country has one tertiary education institution--the T.A. Marryshow Comnmunity College
(TAMCC). TAMCC offerings include the GCE advance level program, associate degree courses in Arts
and Applied Arts and Science and Applied Science, Craftsmen and Technician certificates, courses in
Adult and Continuing Education and the Teacher's diploma. Students wishing to pursue more advanced
studies attend overseas institutions of higher learning. The UWI has an Extra-Mural center in St. George's
which offers a limited number of UWI courses, some of which count toward a degree.
2.13   The Institutional Framework.  Responsibility for educational policy and programs is vested in
the Ministry of Education (MOE). In addition to formulating education policy and standards, MOE
designs and oversees the operation of the school system, consistent with its mandate under the Education
Act (No. 13 of 1976). MOE also oversees the Library system.
2.14   Organizationally, under the Minister, the administrative head of the Ministry is the Permanent
Secretary. The discrete sections are: (i) Administration, (ii) Education, (iii) Public Library and (iv) the
National Commission for UNESCO (Annex 2, Chart 2: Existing Organigram of the Ministry of
Education). The Administration Section is responsible for all financial management (budgeting and
accounting) and for personnel administration as well as miscellaneous items, including Stores and Supplies.
The Education Section is managed by the Chief Education Officer (CEO), who is assisted by a team of
professional staff, including three Senior Education Officers (SEOs) for (1) Policy and Planning
(comprising Testing and Measurement, Examinations and Statistics); (2) Schools (under whom come the
school supervisory service and the schools) and (3) Curriculum (comprising curriculum design and
supervision and guidance and counseling). The CEO also oversees the unit responsible for maintenance of
the physical plant of schools. The overall administration is centralized in terns of personnel, resources and
3The 1995 Estimates provide a sum of ECS1.5 million for this purpose.
4This is because the infants (ages 5 and 6) in effect go through a kindergarten and a Grade I stage in the first
two years, but these are counted as two Grades in Grenada.
4



decision making, with limited discretionary authority assigned to the school level. During the structural
adjustment program, several posts were abolished in an already understaffed Head Office. A significant
role for the Church in education is formally exercised through denominational Boards, each of which has
school management responsibilities and the authority to propose to MOE a shortlist of candidates for the
post of principal in the respective denominational schools.
5



3. SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
A. Issues
(1) Quality and Effectiveness of Teaching and Learning
3.1    Management of the System.    The most serious obstacle to improvement in the sector lies in the
weakness of the MOE Head Office. The Ministry has survived and even offered some of leadership to the
school system only through the dedicated work of a small number of persons. Supporting a reform effort
will require significant strengthening of MOE staff at all levels. The school system is now under-managed.
Up-to-date education legislation is now being prepared to replace the existing Education Act. The new Act
and related regulations are urgently needed, but would require to be supported by the institutional capacity
to apply them effectively. Planning has been almost moribund since 1979. The detailed sector analysis
needed as a basis for sound sector planning has not as yet been done. The social sector planning unit
established in 1993 in the Ministry of Finance and Planning is as yet unable to assist in developing
education sector planning. However, sector development requires the benefit of a framework such as a well
considered plan. The various technical services in MOE (curriculum, statistics, testing etc.) lack basic
equipment and trained specialists and are grossly under-staffed. Strengthening school supervision to play
an important role in leading the system toward reform and greater efficiency will require appropriately
trained administrative and curriculum supervisors and a rational and duly applied system of annual
evaluation of teachers and principals that encourages good performance.5 In the administrative fields of
personnel and financial management, there is a similar weakness in the level (rank), numbers, training and
equipping of staff. In a sector that spends 17 percent of the national recurrent budget, systematic financial
analysis is necessary. Finally, overall, the Ministry is badly housed in buildings that offer little protection
against fire and the destruction of records and in rooms that are not always adequately ventilated and
illuminated. There is a serious shortage of storage space, modem office equipment and information
resources.
3.2    Student Achievement.  Educational testing to date has been conducted on a national basis only for
terminal examinations of attainment, with the results serving some screening purpose for admission to the
next level of education or, in the case of external examinations and some craft and technician exams, for
entry into jobs. No indicators exist to determine and compare, on a system-wide basis, the quality of
primary or secondary education within the respective cycle, either in individual schools or across schools.
Promotion is generally automatic, with no professionally designed test of achievement at the end of each
grade and, hence, no nationally valid indication of a student's mastery of subject matter until the end of the
primary cycle (when the CEE selects students for available secondary places on the basis of their score and
preference for particular schools) or at the end of the secondary cycle (when the CXC and GCE
examinations are taken).
3.3    Student scores on the CEE show weaknesses that are pronounced in some rural primary schools
and in some subject areas--spelling and the use of the dictionary and encyclopedia--as well as other core
areas such as science. Girls usually outperform boys in all subjects in the CEE; nine of the first ten places
5A new general evaluation system for the public service is now being prepared.
6



and 55 of the first 100 places in the order of merit were taken by girls in 1994. This under-performance of
boys is a source of concern.
3.4   Inadequate information exists to adequately assess the quality of secondary education. The
relatively high secondary school completion rates belie the significant obstacles to learning that many
encounter, which include a large proportion of untrained teachers and inadequate equipment and supplies in
key subject areas (such as the sciences) and the poor condition of some physical plant.
3.5    Student and parental preference for "traditional" secondary schools, which generally achieve the
highest average CXC scores, effectively streams children among schools according to their CEE scores.
From the 1994 CEE, the four prestigious St. George's schools received 76 of the first 100 students in the
order of merit, including one school that received 31; 1 I more went to the two prestigious Grenville schools
and the remaining 13 were shared among the other 12 schools. In one of these 12 schools, the highest
ranking entrant was 407th in the order of merit. The disparities in performance by secondary school in the
CXC reflects in some ways this lopsidedness in the sharing of the talented students at 11+. Three of the
prestigious St. George's schools had subject pass percentages in the 1994 CXC Examination of 72.5, 70
and 69, compared to an average of 52 for all of the Grenada public secondary schools and 31 and 32
percent in the lowest rated schools.
3.6    Performances in the CXC exam indicate unsatisfactory levels of student mastery of curricula
throughout the system, with notably weak performances in English, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry and
Biology.
3.7    Factors Contributini to Low Achievement.  To date, no systematic analysis has been
undertaken of the causes of low student performance. In the view of the MOE staff, however, the key
contributing factors include: (a) quantitative and qualitative problems with regard to major education
system inputs, particularly the teaching cadre, educational equipment and supplies, and facilities;
(b) inadequate supervision of instructional delivery by specialized curriculum officers and by principals;
(c) weak articulation of curricula and educational standards within and between grades; (d) distortion of the
primary curriculum by the pressure of competition for secondary school places; (e) weak institutional
capacity to plan, manage or monitor performance of the school system so that it can be adjusted in a timely
way to respond to the needs of students of wide ability ranges, and (f) the absence of training for school
principals.
3.8    Teacher Oualifications. The study of teacher training conducted during project preparation
stressed the need for urgent qualitative measures relating to teachers and teaching throughout basic
education. High proportions of unqualified teachers are engaged in the system--only 43 percent at primary
level are trained. At the secondary level, only 32.5 percent of the teachers have university degrees and most
of these have not been professionally trained. The situation is particularly critical at the primary level,
adversely affecting teaching and learning in the core subjects: English, mathematics, social studies and
science. As of June 1995, the Teacher Training Department of the T.A. Marryshow College had nine
tutors (including one Peace Corps person) none of whom was a specialist in Social Studies. The science
and language laboratories of the Department lack equipment and supplies and the library is short of audio-
visual aids and reading materials for both the trainees and the tutors. The Department offers induction
courses to new recruits into the teaching profession, on an in-service basis, in two Centers (St. George's
and Grenville). A Center in Carriacou has been inactive in recent years because of budgetary constraints.
3.9    The conclusion of observers within the system is that there is no visible difference between the
classroom performance of trained teachers and that of untrained ones--an observation that was made by
7



expert teams in St. Lucia as well. The Department at TAMCC ascribes this to the above difficulties under
which the Department functions and to:
* the difficult and distracting conditions under which the teachers teach;
* the fact that trainees enter the training program with such low levels of competence in basic
subjects (geography, science, mathematics and English) that much of the training energies are
absorbed in content instruction, to the partial neglect of professional development;
* the UWI curricular requirements that are not well related to realities in the schools, with too
much emphasis placed on research;
* the inability of the Ministry (for whom the teachers are being trained) to influence program
content, and
* the insufficiency of practice teaching in the training program.
3.10   The issue in primary teacher training is also quantitative. In 1995, there were only 361 trained
teachers (of whom 80 are mnale) in the total staff of 847. In 1995 there were only 85 students enrolled in
the full-time diploma program --46 in year 1 and 39 in year 2. The rate at which trained teachers are being
produced (less than 50 per year) needs to be significantly raised. There are over 200 persons in the
teaching service who have taken the diploma program and failed. These continue to receive in-service
training to help them pass the exam. Even if staffing needs remained stable and the annual output climbed
to 50, it would not be before the year 2009 that the service would be fully trained. With a 50 percent
increase in staff, the Department believes that it can double the intake; an increase to 12 would appear
feasible, especially if, with strengthening of the rules and methods of selection of persons for entry into the
profession, along with qualitative improvements in the program, the attrition rate among the full time
trainees can be reduced. Various measures have been considered to accelerate the production of trained
teachers, including the use of distance teaching and the addition of a pre-service training program. In the
light of the intended sector planning, it would be best to have the various options considered in the context
of the overall development of the sector.
3.11   Teacher training problems are compounded by several factors, including the limited outreach of the
teacher trainers and the limited availability of in-service training programs for teachers after their formal
training. In pursuit of increased professionalization of the teaching corps, over recent years the
Government has raised the entry requirements for admission to the training program. However, the only
CXC subject pass that is specifically identified as a pre-requisite for entry into teacher training program is
English. All new candidates for the teaching service would be required to have at least four CXC passes
including both English and mathematics. While this is a step in the right direction, even more rigorous
teacher training program admission requirements are required and these need to be incorporated into the
new Education Act and Regulations that are being prepared. Additionally, since the teachers entering
training are drawn from teachers already working in the system, complementary steps will need to be taken
to raise the entry level for recruitment into the teaching profession.
3.12   Throughout the system, teacher performance is also adversely affected by poor physical working
conditions. The lack of basic educational materials and equipment to support classroom teaching and
learning, and of minimum physical plant requirements, including electricity, water and sanitation facilities,
constitutes an obstacle to efficient performance. On a positive note, teachers' salaries, which were among
the poorest in the OECS, were increased in May 1995. However, the new salary scales offer little incentive
8



to degree holders to obtain advanced degrees or diplomas and place teacher trainers in very
disadvantageous position. The Government intends to review the salary scales and classification scheme to
ensure some incentives for persons to obtain advanced qualifications.
3.13   Performance Evaluation.     Educational research has shown that the quality of education is
highly correlated with the intensity of supervision and monitoring and feedback in the system. Grenada is
preparing measures to strengthen performance monitoring of the public servants generally. The institution
of regular, system-wide school performance review is necessary and although, some perfornance
evaluations of teachers and principals are conducted, and it is theoretically possible to follow up on these if
performance improvements do not occur, in practice, the system does not carry much weight and is not
rigorously applied. The lack of systematic performance evaluations hampers attainment of desired quality
improvements.
3.14   Curricula.    The Curriculum Unit, established in 1985, is charged with developing curricula
and teaching materials and overseeing the application of curricula in the schools. The unit is inadequately
equipped for all of these responsibilities. It contains an establishment of staff (one in each core subject and
two who are devoted to guidance counseling) none of whom has been specially trained in the fields covered
by the Unit--(i) development and supervision of curricula and syllabi and (ii) the preparation and
production of teaching materials. Nor does it have staff trained in the closely related field of educational
testing and measurement.
3.15   (i) Curriculum Development.  For some years, the Ministry has been attempting to rewrite the
syllabi for primary education. The pace has been slow, although some good achievements have been
recorded. For the design of curricula in an expeditious manner, trained curriculum development specialists
are needed in each of the core curricular areas-science, social studies, mathematics and English. With
regard to the actual curricula, at the primary level, analysis in other OECS countries has shown that syllabi
and teaching tend to focus predominantly on teaching of basic facts, with limited attention to developing
critical thinking skills or fostering student research and investigation, even in such core subjects as science.
Comments by educators in Grenada suggest that the Grenadian situation contains similar features.
Curriculum upgrading is needed in all core subjects. Expert analysis in Dominica and St. Lucia has also
indicated a serious problem in English which may be linked to the use of English "Creole" and French
"Creole". In Grenada, English is recognized as a weak area in primary and secondary schools and some
review of the language arts practices and policy needs to be undertaken, with special attention to the
potential in the early primary school years to build bridges between English and "Creole".
3.16   Curricula at both the primary and secondary levels have become overloaded. In an attempt to
respond to demands for more diversified courses, particularly in the technical and vocational areas, subjects
have been added in an ad hoc manner, without adequate attention to their cost implications or the integrity
of the whole curriculum. Ad hoc decisions of MOE also have adverse effects on the efficiency of the
Curriculum Unit. The Science curriculum specialist is saddled with responsibility for Family Life, Aids
Prevention, Health Education and so on, as such subjects are added to the curriculum as separate subjects
rather than as integral parts of the relevant syllabi. New initiatives such as music, art and agriculture
distort the emphasis that is due to developing the core subjects. As a result, primary schools are
insufficiently focused on the basic, core subjects and secondary schools sometimes offer uneconomical
course options to students, with small average class sizes in such subject areas. A review of the
organization of the secondary school in terms of the efficient arrangement of the curriculum, deployment of
staff and use of facilities is needed to ensure that appropriate measures are adopted to place the reform
effort on a financially sustainable basis. The curricula need to be coordinated as between levels--primary
9



and secondary--and to be consolidated to avoid the tendency toward proliferation of subjects and the
consequent high cost of too fragmented a curriculum, especially at the secondary level.
3.17   (ii) Instructional Materials:    The Ministry has a standardized list of approved school books.
These are produced by the major British and some Caribbean publishers. The cost of books is met by the
parents who are stated to be generally unable to supply all the required books. In regard to preparing and
producing curriculum guides and teaching materials to assist teachers, the Curriculum Unit has serious
constraints of staff, equipment and supplies. Moreover, no officer is trained in textbook or reading
materials production. Supplementary reading materials and various forms of teaching apparatus are
urgently needed to support teachers in the early grades if standards of student and teacher performance are
to be raised. Expert review in other OECS countries suggests that it would be feasible to establish a
nucleus of a unit for preparing and producing such materials to supplement what can be purchased in the
stores, to determine Government's procurement policy on such materials and to contribute to any sub-
regional effort in production of such materials, especially at the primary level.
3.18   Beyond simply reading materials, the teachers also require to be supported by regular provision of
instructional equipment, materials and supplies. The supply of these items is extremely limited at present.
Basic materials for teaching mathematics, science and social studies are absent and teachers are not
supplied with the basic textbooks and often have to purchase them for their teaching functions. Thus, the
impoverished state of the schools reduces the chances of efficient teaching and learning.
3.19   To fulfill its significant potential to improve curricula and the availability of supportive educational
materials, particularly at the primary level, and thus contribute to desired improvements in the quality of
education, MOE requires: (i) upgrading, as well as a modest expansion of its technical staff, with special
attention to building institutional capacity in educational materials preparation and production, including
editing and publishing, the latter of which will assist the Ministry to become more market-wise in its
contracting processes; (ii) furniture, equipment and supplies to permit it to undertake desk top publishing,
as appropriate, as well as advance the publishing readiness of material it produces, thereby reducing costs
of extemal publication and manufacturing; (iii) improved methods of selection of secondary textbooks.
3.20   (iii) Testing and Measurement. The Ministry plans of developing standardized tests. The CEE is
designed in Grenada but scored in Barbados by the Caribbean Examinations Council (CXC) because of the
lack of the necessary computer facilities in Grenada. The need exists for a professionally designed testing
system that facilitates the development of norms and standards over the basic cycle (Grades 1-9, i.e., up to
Form 3 of the secondary school). Such a system would need to test students within the primary and
secondary cycles rather than only at the end of each cycle, thus enabling problems of learning and teaching
to be diagnosed in time for corrective measures to be taken and to inform efforts in teacher training and
guidance, curriculum design, materials preparation, school supervision and testing itself. It would also
facilitate research into the scale and nature of such problems as the wide gender disparities in the CEE and
CXC performances.
3.21   The administration of external examinations also needs to be strengthened, especially with the
recent increase in work resulting from the change in the CXC examination to a more school-based mode.
The needs include adequate office and storage space, office equipment, computers and transport facilities.
3.22   State of Physical Plant. As the school mapping survey concluded, the current state of much of the
physical plant in schools is not conducive to adequate teaching or learning. A thorough study of the state
of school plant is underway and on the basis of the findings, a program of renovation, repair and
rehabilitation will be drawn up. Many primary schools were constructed for non-school purposes, some
10



were constructed with unsuitable materials, some have been inadequately protected from the ravages of
weather, ternites and normal wear and tear and others are simply unsafe. There has been minimal
attention to repair of facilities over the past decade. On the basis of the findings of the on-going survey, a
program of rehabilitation will be prepared that will be phased over the project implementation period. The
study has also proposed prototype school building designs that would, inter alia, help to minimize the
maintenance problem.
3.23   The current schools maintenance unit, transferred from the Ministry of Works to MOE in the
1980s is inadequately funded. This unit attempts to repair Government (and some Assisted) schools, using
a permanent staff of 12 of its own skilled construction workers, hiring daily paid workers at the community
level and entering into contracts with small contractors. What is urgently needed is some method of
ensuring the allocation of a due proportion of the sector resources to maintenance purposes, along with the
most efficient use of these resources.
3.24   Beyond pervasive disrepair, the configuration of many schools--often the open hall type--does not
facilitate normal teaching, let alone adoption of innovative approaches, such as team or group teaching.
Staff rooms, where they exist, are cramped, serving far more teachers than their original design envisaged.
Classroom separation only by movable blackboards results in high levels of noise and distraction for
students and teachers. Generally, the primary schools are short of libraries and staff rooms, their toilets are
often in a state of disrepair and few are properly fenced.
(2) Efficiency of the Educational System
3.25   The current actual average teacher to student ratios for public schools are 1:27 at the primary
level and 1: 19 at the secondary level. These averages cover a range among the primary schools of between
1:8 and 1:35 (1994), and among secondary schools of between 1:12.3 and 1:24.4. Attthe primary level, the
ratio exceeds the reasonable level of 1:30-35, as well as the official standard of 1:35 for a qualified teacher
and 1:25 for an untrained teacher. At the secondary level, a ratio of 1:25 would be more appropriate in
schools without a sixth Form. Extensive research has shown that, except at the extremes, lower teacher to
student ratios do not adversely affect either the quality of education provided or the levels of learning and
achievement.
3.26   The relatively high current ratios reflect the absence of close monitoring of costs and efficiency,
and lack of cost-conscious detailed planning and programniing in relation to how curricula are organized at
the school level and how the teachers are recruited and deployed. At the primary level, there will be a
continuing decline in enrollments over the next few years, as well as geographical shifts in population and,
at secondary level, some increase in enrollments and a better distribution of places around the country.
Thus, three major changes are indicated--(i) the consolidation of curricula especially at secondary levels to
optimize the use of teaching staff, (ii) rationalization of teaching resources which should include adjusting
teacher-to-student ratios to more economical levels and may include transferring some teachers from
primary to secondary schools, reducing the rate of recruitment of new teachers and adopting new strategies
for teacher training, aimed at attaining a 100 percent trained service, and (iii) equalizing the level of
staffing for individual schools with due attention to the special needs of small schools.
3.27   The Appendix to Annex 3 sets out the implications of adjusting teacher-to-student ratios at
primary and secondary levels. Without a firm policy with respect to ensuring that school expenditure is
balanced as between salary and non-salary expenditures, the yield from the educational investments has
11



steadily declined. The high proportion of the recurrent education budget which is expended to meet salary
and other personal emoluments (representing over 95 percent of recurrent allocations to primary and
secondary schools in the 1995 Estimates) seriously constrains resource availability for other key
educational inputs, particularly improved management, educational equipment and supplies, and the
maintenance of school plant and equipment. This proportion needs to be brought down to a more
reasonable level of less than 90 percent to produce a more efficient mix of resources for effective teaching.
3.28   The implications of not effecting these changes to the ratios are serious. Qualitative and
institutional improvements such as those to be supported under the Basic Education Reform Project will
require to be financed by new resources. The Government will therefore have to raise the education sector
share of the national budget by EC$2.0+ million--equivalent to eight percent of the total primary and
secondary school budget or six percent of the sector budget or one percent of the national recurrent budget.
Such a change is highly unfeasible given the current major fiscal constraints. It would be equally unwise to
attempt such changes in ratios without a concomitant improvement in the services received by teachers
from head office and in the situation regarding supplies and maintenance at the school level.
(3) Equity of Access to Educational Opportunities
3.29   Such gender inequalities in access to education as exist in Grenada, as elsewhere in the OECS,
result not from any laws or regulations but from the gender disparities in student achievement, commencing
at the primary level, with girls outperforming boys. Girls comprised 59.3% of public secondary enrollment
in 19946. Neither the underlying causes nor the long term consequences of this phenomenon are known, but
to the extent that it represents some form of under performance on the part of boys, it warrants carefu
study, along with a study of the overall unsatisfactory perfonnance of students generally.
3.30   Further, the poorer families face special geographic constraints to access to good quality education.
The heavy urban, particularly St. George's, concentration of secondary schools works to the disadvantage
of poor, rural families. At the same time, the unsatisfactory CEE performance of many students attending
the weaker primary schools restricts their access to secondary education, which is becoming increasingly
important for effective labor force entry.
3.31   While public education is provided free, with no tuition fee, other annual education-related
expenditures which must be borne by the household are considerable. These include: uniforms and school
bus transport, which can average over US$300 equivalent per student per academic year (or about 12
percent of per capita GNP); textbooks and other educational materials the outlays for which have been
estimated to range from around US$80 per student at the primary level to US$250 equivalent at the
secondary level; and any other charges levied at the school level. With regard to textbooks, the high
average costs are attributable largely to two factors: (a) the large number of textbooks required per subject,
with overlap in material estimated to quite considerable; and (b) inefficiencies in procedures used for
procuring textbooks and other educational materials, which results in prices exceeding international market
prices.
6'his imbalance is not new. Girls have outnumbered boys in Grenadian secondary enrollments since 1970
(which is as far back as the statistics go), and over the years the gap has simply widened.
12



B. Government Sectoral Policy and Financing
3.32 Education Policy. National development policy for the education sector has been quite clearly
elaborated in various documents. The Ministry of Finance statement in May 19947 emphasizes provision
of skills to the work force, improving access to, and quality of, secondary education, devoting a larger
share of resources to basic education and, under the proposed project, developing curricula, upgrading
facilities and strengthening teacher training. A parallel Paper by the Ministry of Education' outlines the
specific priorities as follows:
* developing local capacity for research;
* institutional development (including developing local capacity for policy analysis, review and
formulation, sector analysis, identifying, preparing, monitoring, and evaluating programs and
projects and collecting data and generating information);
* reform of the education and training system, including:
-- reducing inequalities in access to educational opportunities caused by geography and
economic circumstances, with special attention to children in remote mral areas;
-- improvement in internal and external efficiency (reduced student attrition and improved
relationship between curricula and the job market);
* expanding access to education and designing and applying more appropriate curricula;
* provision of learning materials and nutritional support; and
* promoting educational quality, including the relevance of curricula to preparing students for
higher levels and the job market.
3.33   The programs and projects envisaged include technical assistance for school mapping and a sector
survey, training in planning, sector analysis and statistics, better equipping of management and
reorganizing of the management structure. Finally, a draft education plan has been prepared by MOE but
has not been adopted by Government. However, this plan was not based on systematic sector analysis.
3.34   The current weaknesses in the administration suggest the need to increase the number of senior
level staff, to establish a planning function and a project implementation capacity and to add the role of
internal audit and financial analysis. Discrete separate units are advisable for (i) developing and
supervising curricula, (ii) testing and measurement and (iii) educational materials, as the expertise required
in each of these three areas, despite their common threads, is quite unique. Overall, considerable training in
all of these fields is needed. The existing structure as well as the proposed changes being considered are
shown in Annex 2, Chart 2 and Annex 3, Chart I respectively.
3.35   Sector Financing. Annual recurrent sector outlays prior to the structural adjustment program
amounted to 18-19% of the national recurrent budget9. The present level of 16.6% represents some decline
in the share; however, in the current fiscal circumstances, the likelihood of any large increase is slim. What
7From Stabilization to Sustainable Growth. The Medium Term Economic Strategy Paver (MTESP) 1994-1996
8Ministrv of Education and Information (Grenada): "Framework for the Develoyment of Educational
Programmes and Proiects" May 1994.
9In 1989, 18.78%; in 1990, 19.27%; in 1991, 19.33%.
13



is needed over the next few years is to work within the available resources to lay the basis for efficient
schools and good sector management.
3.36   According to the 1995 Estimates, the sub-sector shares of the sector budget were as follows:
Sub-sector                                                    Amount EC$    Percent of sector total
. . . . . . . . ..... ..... ..... ... .   ......  .   . .........................................................................................................._....
Administration                                                  3,007,125         9.11
Pre-primary                                                      1,468,170        4.45
Primary (including Special Education)                           16,189,702        49.02
Secondary (including Skills Training)                           7,876,653         23.85
Tertiary (TAMCC, UWI, Island Scholarships)                      4,481,029         13.57
TOTAL                                                           33,022,687       100.0
National Total Recurrent Budget              199,084,200--(sector share of national total = 16.6
percent)
3.37   In the absence of a proper Plan for the sector, it is impossible to forecast the evolution of this intra-
sectoral distribution which, in view of the volatile demographic patterns, will be subject to important
changes as the system develops.
3.38    Modest variations exist in the per student recurrent expenditure by level of education. Public
expenditure per student for 1995 is expected to be roughly EC$700 (US$260) at primary, EC$1,093
(US$400) at secondary and EC$3,958 (US$1,466) at TAMCC (which includes traditional secondary
Grades 12 and 13).
3.39    Capital investment in the Education Sector has been heavily externally financed over the period
1992-1995, principally by the World Food Program and by the Bank and CDB (Cr. 1785-CRG), and has
constituted around seven percent of the Government's capital budget, which is consistent with the OECS
regional average. (Annex 3).
14



4. SECTORAL ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. The Bank's Role and Strategy
4.1   The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the OERCS countries, including Grenada (Report No.
14295-LAC dated April 10, 1995), falls within the parameters of the Strategy for the OECS as a whole.
The Bank strategy involves (a) reliance on the coordinating role of the Caribbean group for Cooperation in
Economic Development (CGCED) and close links to CDB and, (b) economic and sector work and financial
assistance to support country priorities. In recognition of the small size of the economies, the World Bank
Group provides its lending on a 50/50 IDA/lBRD blend. The Bank remains a strong supporter of country
efforts at economic diversification, developing the private sector and strengthening the analytical capacities
of the public sector and refocusing its role. The support of human resource development, infrastructure
development, natural resource management, and environmental protection are seen as essential to the
process of economic diversification toward such areas as tourism, high value agriculture products and new
export services, which offer some opportunity to alleviate unemployment and poverty.
4.2    The proposed project fully supports the CAS targeting the priority area of human resource
development, catalyzing an education sector adjustment process to improve efficiency of public resource
use and promoting reform that is consistent with the reforms being adopted elsewhere in the OECS sub-
region. Following the experience in St. Lucia, where the Bank and CDB worked closely from project
preparation through planned implementation and supervision, the subsequent phase of the OECS program
will be carried out in the same cooperative way, but with CDB concentrating on St. Kitts & Nevis and St.
Vincent and the Grenadines, while the Bank focuses on Dominica and Grenada.
4.3    To further promote regional collaboration, project preparatory work has drawn principally on
Caribbean technical expertise. The use of a common core of consultants across the OECS countries has
promoted exchange of ideas among countries. Moreover, such project preparation has been carried out in
close consultation with the OECS Secretariat, building on its extensive work to formulate and promote
rapid implementation of an OECS Education Reform Strategy (OERS), to which the OECS Governments
are committed. The project emphasis on sector planning and institutional development, qualitative
improvement of basic education, and expansion of access to secondary education reflects the priority
actions identified in the OERS.
4.4    The OERS envisages activities at both national and regional levels. Unexpected delays have
occurred in establishment of the regional machinery, however, at their meeting in Montserrat in November
1993, the OECS Ministers of Education agreed that the national govermments should proceed with their
own urgently needed education investment programs, consistent with the Reform objectives. This proposed
project is in keeping with that decision and consistent with priority sector development needs identified in
the Bank report, "Access, Quality and Efficiency in Caribbean Education: A Regional Study," prepared at
the request of member govermments discussed widely in the region, and formally presented at the June 1992
CGCED meeting. That meeting also requested direct Bank technical and financial support to accelerate
human resource development in this region.
15



B. Bank Sector Experience and Lessons Learned
4.5   The Bank has had limited sector experience in Grenada. The IDA-financed OECS Regional
Vocational and Technical Education Project, Credit 1785-CRG, in the amount of SDR 4.8 rnillion (US$
6.5 million equivalent) with a total project cost of US$ 13.5 million equivalent, was co-financed by the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and CDB. The Credit was approved by the Board in 1987,
and became effective in 1987, and the Credit Account was closed on June 30, 1994. While national
coordinators were appointed by each of the five participating OECS Governnents, CDB served as project
executing agency. As a result, the OECS Governments, including Grenada, did not gain direct experience
with Bank-financed project execution, procurement, disbursement, and other procedures. The Bank has
also been involved in the recently approved lending to education in St. Lucia, Loan 3837-SLU and Credit
2676-SLU (for the Basic Education Reform Project) which were approved in January 1995.
4.6    An Implementation Completion Report (ICR)'0 has been prepared for the Regional Vocational and
Technical Education Project. It is clearly too early to assess fully the impact of the investment. Review to
date indicates that the overall performance of the project was mixed. Notable achievements include a
substantial increase in technical and vocational education capacity in the participating countries. Project
investments also led to extensive overseas training of technical and vocational teachers for the respective
education systems. The pre-vocational curricula developed under project auspices, though developed only
for the first year of study and introduced too late during the project implementation to be fully evaluated,
hold promise of providing, with possible adjustments, a solid orientation to technical fields.
4.7    Notwithstanding actual and potential contributions, the project also experienced significant
problems. Many of the civil works experienced substantial delays in start-up and completion of
construction, leading to price increases and creating the need for long-term storage of equipment and
furniture delivered according to the original implementation schedule. The new and rehabilitated facilities
were also not well maintained. The quality and quantity of procured instructional equipment were a
problem and there was insufficient attention to its commissioning and utilization. Many of the problems
relating to safety and security of equipment and civil works ultimately were successfully addressed by
means of an Action Plan designed and implemented by the Bank and CDB. Shortfalls in execution of other
major project activities nevertheless hampered the full achievement of project objectives. For example, the
project laid the groundwork for labor market information systems to provide needed links and information
flows between technical/vocational training and the labor market; and three countries produced labor
bulletins. However, the lack of direct project financing for this, as well as other institutional development
aspects, coupled with shortages of staff at the country-level, hampered actual establishment of the planned
systems, and the conduct of the annual labor surveys on which they depend. Weak consultant reports, and
insufficient Government commitment or incentives, led to abandonment of envisaged cost recovery and
savings measures intended to ensure program sustainability. Attempts were made to establish the
envisaged Regional Training Board that was intended to coordinate technical/vocational programs across
the OECS, building on experience gained by the project in establishing National Boards. A few regional
meetings were held; however, with insufficient commitment to such a Board, and insufficient project
resources to build the requisite policy constituency, the results were less than was anticipated.
'0 Report No 14404 Implementation Comoletion Report. Eastern Caribbean States. Fourth Canbbean
Develooment Bank. Regional Vocational and Technical Education Proiect (Credit 1785-CRG). April 28. 1995.
Human Resources Division, Country Department III. Latin America and the Canbbean Region.
16



4.8    Lessons Learned. Review of the relevant completion and audit reports of this OECS project, as
well as of education projects in Jamaica (Second and Third Education Projects, respectively Loan 727-JM
and Loan 2070-JM), Barbados (First Education and Training Project, Loan 1642-BAR), and Haiti (Third
Education Project, Credit 1305-HA) reveals that it is essential to: (a) link project objectives to the broader
sector and macro policy objectives to enhance overall commitment to, and hence success in execution of,
the project; (b) carefully evaluate local procurement and project implementation capacities to ensure that
adequate and timely institutional support is available for the smooth operation of the project; (c) ensure on
an annual basis that Govermment budgets provide the requisite project financing so that the planned pace
and breadth of project activities can be sustained, and the project completed according to schedule; (d)
involve all major concerned parties in an education reform process (i.e., the Ministry staff, principals,
teachers and teachers unions, and parents and community groups) from the early stages of project design;
and (e) ensure that the policy environment within which the project will operate is supportive of project
objectives and facilitates the needed systemic and institutional reforms.
4.9    These lessons have been taken into account in the design of this project. The project objectives are
drawn from the MOE Framework Paper of May 1994, the Grenada Provisional Education Plan,
recommendations of the OECS Education Reform Strategy Paper which was endorsed by all OECS
member Governments, and the Bank's report "Access, Quality and Efficiency in Caribbean Education: A
Regional Study" which was discussed with all Caribbean governments. The objectives are also consistent
with the CDB Human Resource Development Sector Policy Paper of November 1993.
4.10   Preparatory work was undertaken, under a program of comparative studies relative to the sector
situation in St. Lucia which is to the benefit of both countries. These studies were financed by a Japanese
P'HRD Grant to St. Lucia. These studies included a review of teacher training and a school location
planning exercise. A survey of schools and their rehabilitation needs has been undertaken which
concentrates on the schools identified by the school location planning exercise as deficient. Another study
is being conducted in secondary school organization (Annex 4-Preparatory Studies).
4.11   The preparatory phase has included consultation with all major entities in the sector, including the
management and staff of MOE, the teacher training department of TAMCC, Ministry of Works, private
sector employers and the Grenada Union of Teachers. The MOE and Ministry of Finance maintained frank
and open dialogue on investment, policy and institutional reform requirements as well as facilitating the
access of the Bank missions to persons and materials. As civil works represent some of 63 percent of total
project cost, attention was given in the project preparatory phase to developing prototype designs which
take into account local building standards and experiences, and environmental (including climatic) and
other factors. Emphasis also was placed on preparation of preliminary drawings for all facilities that
would be financed under the project by a respected international architectural firm familiar with the Bank.
This was intended to preclude the significant civil works problems encountered under the earlier Vocational
and Technical Education Project in which excessive reliance was placed on the local Ministries of Public
Works, which proved to have limited institutional capacity to guide this process. The selection and
methods for procurement of educational equipment and furniture have been carefully assessed to ensure
that detailed technical specifications are developed with participation of end users, high quality-low cost
sources are identified and tapped, and comprehensive plans exist for operationalizing and pilot testing new
equipment, and training teachers in their appropriate use. All these measures should considerably reduce
the risk of repeating the serious problems in these areas encountered in the earlier OECS education project.
17



5. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Concept
5.1    The proposed Basic Education Reform Project responds to a request from the Government of
Grenada to assist it in its efforts to reform its education system. The decision to focus on the basic
education cycle (Grades 1-9) arose out of regional discussions over the period 1992-93 (para 4.9).
Agreement on the scope of a possible project were reached in the course of dialogue in 1995 among
Govermment, Bank and CDB staff. The actual project content was elaborated over the period February-
October 1995 in discussions between the Government and the Bank.
5.2    The overall project goal is to accelerate human resource development so that the requisite
manpower can be produced to support the desired national economic transition. The project represents the
first stage of a major reform of basic education, aimed at improved efficiency and effectiveness of the
education system and at enhancing the quality of, and equity of access to, basic education. Thus, the
project objectives are to (a) strengthen the planning and institutional capacity of the MOE to guide and
carry out the long-term development of the sector, while enabling it to initiate urgent measures to address
system-wide qualitative problems and expansion needs at the primary and secondary levels, and (b) serve
as a catalyst for a major adjustment process, focused on moving toward more reasonable primary and
secondary teacher to student ratios, in line with ratios of countries in similar economic and social
circumstances. Such adjustment is critical to ensure that already relatively high levels of resource
allocations to public education respond more effectively to current and projected needs, including increased
financing for system management and planning, more instructional equipment and supplies and proper
maintenance of school facilities--all of which are now significantly underfinanced. The planned adjustment
is crucial to ensure the financial sustainability of the reform initiatives being launched. An analysis of the
possible phasing and impact of this adjustment process is provided in Annex 3, Appendix. The specific
project objectives are threefold:
(i)   to strengthen management in the sector, as well as educational planning and
central planning, particularly in the social sectors.
(ii)   to improve the quality of basic education, and
(iii)   to expand access to secondary education and rehabilitate primary and secondary
school facilities.
5.3    The project is based on the Government's sector development policy. At Loan/Credit Negotiations,
agreement will be reached on the content of an Education Strategy Letter from the Government to IBRD
and 1DA that would:
(a)    outline the Ministry's strategy for strengthening the management and planning of the
sector, including
(i)   reorganization of the structure of the Ministry
(ii)   the schedule of establishing new units and reinforcing existing units with agreed
functions and responsibilities
(iii)    accelerated action on the Educational Planning Unit (EPU) and the Project
Management Unit (PMU) to create and staff them with professionals with agreed
qualifications;
18



(b)   indicate the government's plans and programs with respect to the adjustmnent of teacher to
student ratios and to adjust the ratio of allocations in the schools as between salary and
non salary expenditures in parallel with to strengthening of management and improvernent
in the provision of instructional supplies and maintenance services to schools. (Paras 3.26
to 3.28):
(c)    elaborate the parallel policies and actions that the Ministry would adopt to give full effect
to the reform including, inter alia:
(i)    policies on raising the standards for recruitment into the teaching profession and
the teacher training programs, and the incorporation of these new standards into
the Education law (Act and Regulations) being prepared;
(ii)   the strengthening of technical services to schools with a view to improving the
quality and efficiency of the education provided, such services to include
educational testing and measurement, curriculum supervision, educational
materials and improved supervisions services for support and guidance of
teachers;
(iii)   the conduct and utilization of studies financed under the project;
(iv)   the guarantee of public ownership of, and access to, any public school constructed
under the project on church lands;
(v)    ensuring greater equity in the provision of secondary education over the country as
a whole;
(vi)   the revision of the classification and compensation of teachers so as to encourage
the pursuit of advanced (or post graduate) training by rewarding those who have
successfully pursued such training; and
(vii)    ensuring that by September 1998 at least the full time equivalent of 12 tutors are
allocated to the Teacher Education Department of TAMCC from the overall staff
Establishment provided for TAMCC.
B. Detailed Project Description
5.4    The project comprises three major components:
(a)    Strensthening Management and Planninz. This component would:
* help to reorganize the managernent of the school system, upgrade staff, and improve
coordination among key MOE operating units;
* build capacity in sector planning and analysis and formulate a long-term sector
development plan;
* strengthen central planning so that it could better assist and support educational
planning;
* develop an integrated education data system comprising student, school, financial and
personnel information to facilitate improved sector analysis, administration and
management and policy making;
* establish a permanent project development and management capacity within the MOE;
including increased capacity in procuring school supplies and maintenance of physical
plant;
* strengthen financial management; and
19



* finance special studies to assist in fonnulating future policy and program developments;
(b)    Improving the Quality of Basic Education. This component would enhance the quality of
teaching and learning, through upgrading basic teacher training and strengthening in-
service training for teachers (with special attention to science, mathematics and language
arts) and, concurrently, ensuring their more appropriate utilization and productivity of
teachers through improved supervision and management; a better supply of instructional
materials, improved curricula (especially in core subjects); establishing an educational
testing and measurement capacity to monitor student and system performance; and
building capacity in cost-effective methods of preparing, selecting, producing, procuring
and distributing educational materials;
(c)    Expansion ofAccess to Schools. This component would (i) increase secondary places in
the most under-served districts to reduce overcrowding and long distance travel and
facilitate access to educational opportunities, (ii) replace primary schools that are now
housed in unsatisfactory buildings and (iii) provide funding for urgently needed
rehabilitation of selected schools.
Strengthening Management and Planning Component
(US$1.7 million equivalent, or 19 percent of total base costs).
5.5    MOE needs to pursue its review of its organization, procedures and functions with a view to
rationalizing the use of existing human and financial resources and improving its overall efficiency in
guiding the education system. As an urgent, interim measure to facilitate improved education planning and
directly support project implementation, MOE would reorganize its educational planning and development
functions under an Educational Planning and Development Section. The new section will comprise two
units--an Education Planning and Statistics Unit (EPU) and a Project Management Unit (PMU). The
proposed new organizational structure of the MOE is illustrated in Annex 3, Chart 1
5.6    Senior Management.  In order to assist the MOE to better rationalize and utilize sector
resources, to identify ways of modernizing education system administration consistent with the evolution of
the sector, including revision, as appropriate, of its laws and regulations, and to incorporate these strategies
in the long term sector development plan, the project would provide:
(a)    Expert services (6 months) to assist the MOE management in refining and implementing
reforms, as needed, in its organizational structure and administrative procedures;
(b)    Study tours (4 months) for two senior staff to review education reforrn processes in other
countries and attend relevant seminars and courses in such areas as effective schools and
education policy analysis;
(c)    Civil works for office space", and
(d)    Office equipment and supplies, and literature and reference material for professional
updating on educational developments worldwide."'
Office space is included to accommodate the entire head office of MOE, including new units. Office space for
the various units is detailed in Annex 5. Table 1.
20



5.7    Financial Management. To assist in orienting management of the sector toward grater emphasis on
efficiency and to provide continuing analysis of cost effectiveness, budget formats and productivity on a
regular basis throughout the Education system, and advising the Ministry on improving its efficiency
generally, a financial analyst would be employed. The analyst would also serve an internal audit function
within MOE and train staff in accounting, budgeting and expenditure control and the use of computers in
financial management. The project would finance:
(a)    one fellowship (1 staff year) for one-year of advanced training in financial management
and analysis and in efficiency studies and the use of computers in budgeting, expenditure
control and accounting; and
(b)    related office furniture, equipment and supplies.
5.8    Planning.     To meet the challenges presented by the education reform process, facilitate
introduction of timely adjustments to the system, and foster closer interaction of education systems across
the OECS, the project would assist in establishing the Educational Planning & Statistics Unit (EPU) of
MOE, one of the first tasks of which would be preparation of a long-term sector development plan for the
period 1996-2005. This Plan would serve as the franework for capital investments in the sector.
5.9    The EPU would include Statistics not merely as an adjunct to planning, but as a service to the
sector as well and as an integral part of the planning process. The project would assist in launching the
first phase of development of an integrated education data system to collect, collate, analyze and
disseminate statistical information on the sector and assist other units of MOE in investigation and
research. A computerized data base would be instituted (including information on students, teachers, and
schools as well as financial records and expenditures and non-confidential personnel records) to support
improved management, policy making and research. The data collection and analysis systems to be adopted
would respond to MOE management needs, including necessary linkages to other data systems at the
national level. The data system would be compatible with the planned OECS education reporting system,
thus facilitating exchange of information between and among OECS member countries. For the support of
the education sector planning efforts, the Planning Division in the Ministry of Finance would also be
strengthened.
5.10   To these ends, the project would finance:
(a)    Fellowships (4 staff years) for four persons to pursue one-year advanced training
programs, one in educational planning one in statistics, one in economic planning and one
in social sector planning; each of the first two would also have a short overseas attachment
to an appropriate planning unit.
(b)    (i) Expert services of six months' duration, concentrated in the first two years of project
implementation, to assist the EPU to identify and analyze key sub-sectoral and sectoral
issues, establish approaches to long range planning and lay the groundwork for the long-
tern sector plan, and
12 Relevant literature and reading materials needed for all institutional strengthening and quality improvement
components are included under this area of project support. These materials would be centrally managed for
optimal organizing and accessibility.
21



(ii) Expert services of four months' duration concentrated in the second year of
implementation to assist the Planning Division in economic planning generally and in
improving links between central and sector planning
(c)    Related office furniture, equipment and supplies, computers and related software and
printers, and equipment maintenance; and
(d)    Local training'3, through a series of workshops on education planning principles and use
and collection of statistics for (i) school supervisory staff and selected principals to
facilitate their understanding, participation and cooperation in the planning process and (ii)
principals and other staff at the school level with the same aim.
(e)    Select planning and policy-related studies'4 and surveys, to be carried out under the overall
coordination of the EPU, in association with other relevant units of MOE and the
Government generally, including:
educational costs and financing; school location in relation to population distribution;
education and training implications of economic and social development and labor market
demands (including the relationship of primary and secondary curricular trends to the
requirements of tertiary education and the labor market); teacher effectiveness, impact of
teacher training, teacher attrition; impact analysis of the school supervision and teacher
performance assessment systems; longitudinal studies of students, studies of learning,
performance disparities by school, gender etc.; the impact of reading materials on student
achievement; effectiveness of school maintenance strategies; preparatory studies relating to
a possible follow-on project and other studies.
Tlhe intention of MOE to carry out the agreed project-supported planning and policy-related studies would
be indicated in the Education Strategy Letter.
5.11   Proiect Management and Development. The PMU would be established as a permanent entity
within the MOE and will be responsible for (I) coordination of project implementation; (2) project
monitoring and evaluation; (3) preparation of the requisite six monthly and mid-term project reports; and
(4) implementation of the MOE development program. The PMU will incorporate the existing units
responsible for (i) maintenance of school facilities and (ii) the procurement and distribution of school
furniture, equipment, materials and supplies. The PMU would be headed by a full-time Project Manager,
assisted by a full-time Procurement Officer to oversee procurement, and a full-time accountant to manage
project accounts, and other support staff. To the extent possible, administrative and operating procedures
to be adopted by the PMU for execution of the Basic Education Reform Project would become the modus
operandi of the MOE in general maintenance operations and procurement of stores and supplies.
5.12   To support project management objectives, the project would finance:
(a)    Five (5) months of study tours for key PMU staff (manager, procurement officer,
accountant) to gain experience and skills in areas relevant to their responsibilities in the
13 In general, where local training is to be financed, eligible expenditures would include fees or honoraria for
trainers, travel and any necessary per diem allowances, costs of preparing, producing and procuring training
materials and transport costs.
4 For studies conducted under the project, eligible expenditures would include costs of consulting services,
travel and transport, necessary materials and supplies and expenses of producing (typing and printing) reports.
22



Unit, such as review of operations of Education Project Management Units elsewhere in
the Caribbean (e.g. Barbados, Jamaica and Trinidad & Tobago), and/or to attend World
Bank or CDB seminars on topics such as disbursements, accounting, procurement, etc.,
and for short-term attachment of the Procurement Officer to a suitable procurement agency
for training purposes;
(b)    Expert services (10 months) to include: eight months of services of a Project Management
Expert to assist in project coordination and in setting up the PMU and establishing its
procedures; and two months of services of a Procurement Expert to assist the PMU team
at critical points in the procurement process;
(c)    Related furniture, equipment and supplies, including computers, related software, printers,
photocopier, etc., and two vans, one for the maintenance service and one for the
distribution of instructional materials and supplies, and
(d)    Studies of project evaluation, including the preparation of the Implementation Completion
Report and studies of efficiency in the maintenance of school buildings, and the
procurement and distribution of school supplies.
Qualitative Improvement of Basic Education Component (US$ 2.2 million equivalent, or 26 percent of
total base costs)
5.13   The project assigns high priority to improving the quality of primary education, particularly in the
core subject areas. This component, encompassing improvement of major educational inputs, is expected
to lay the foundation for building permanent institutional capacity to promote quality improvement in a
coordinated way and to monitor and diagnose problems in regard to educational quality.
5.14   Substantial improvements in examination performance are expected to accrue within the medium
term from the quality-oriented project investments at the primary and secondary levels.
5.15   To contribute to enhanced educational quality objectives, as well as provide a basis for the more
effective participation of Grenada in the OECS Education Reform Strategy initiative, the project will
support five closely integrated and inter-dependent areas--(l) teacher training, (2) school supervision, (3)
curriculum development, (4) educational materials and (5) educational testing and measurement.
5.16   Teacher Training.    This sub-component seeks to improve teacher training at the basic and in-
service levels and, thus, contribute to improved teaching (and ultimately learning) and to expand the
number of graduate secondary teachers who are pedagogically trained. To this end the project would
finance four principal types of investments:
(a)    (i) Four Fellowships (4 staff years) for trained teachers, who hold degrees in the relevant
subject areas, to be trained as teacher educators--one candidate for each of the four core
subject areas, i.e., science, mathematics, language arts and social studies, and
(ii) Six Fellowships (6 staff years) to secondary teachers, who hold a university degree but
have not had pedagogical training, to enable them to pursue such training at UWI;
(b)    equipment for the teacher training department of TAMCC for science and language
laboratories and materials and equipment for the Resource Center;
23



(c)    Conduct of in-service training programs for primary school teachers on a systematic basis,
drawing upon the services of qualified staff of MOE as needed;
(i)   to raise to an acceptable level the competence of trained and untrained teachers in
primary schools in the four core subject areas; the programn would take full
advantage of suitable existing materials such as those produced by OCOD.
Overall, it is projected that these programs will serve about 400 teachers over the
period 1996-2000;
(ii)   to improve the pedagogical skills of trained and untrained teachers;
(iii)   to orient and train teachers and principals in areas essential to their improved
functioning in the classroom and in school management, such as test construction,
use of reading materials, organization of the curriculum at the school level,
utilization of staff and facilities, curriculum changes.
The scope of this program and the budget for this would be agreed upon in advance with the Bank on a
year-to-year basis, as part of the annual project programming exercise.
(d)    Studies of teacher attrition and effectiveness and the impact of training of teacher training.
5.17   MOE (EPU in collaboration with TAMCC) would examine current proposals to accelerate the
elimination of the backlog of untrained teachers in the system by the year 2002. These proposals include
the use of distance teaching methods and the introduction of pre-service training (to complement the current
practice of drawing the intake into the full-time training program exclusively from the ranks of serving
teachers). Changes, if any, would be included in the long-range plan to be prepared for the sector. MOE
would also conduct studies of teacher effectiveness and attrition and the impact of the training program on
teacher performance. In-service training would be conducted in consultation with the Grenada Union of
Teachers which has shown interest in the professional development of teachers.
5.18   As part of the effort to professionalize the teaching service, TAMCC would require all new
entrants into the two year diploma training program after 1998 to have at least four GCE "O" level or
CXC equivalent passes, including English, Mathematics, a Social Studies subject and a Science subject.
Moreover, by the year 2000, all teachers in the primary schools who have not secured at least four CXC or
GCE "O" level passes in each of the four core subject areas will be reassigned either to other suitable
public service jobs or, if they have demonstrated special ability to work with young children, to the Pre-
School system. The TAMCC Teacher Training Department would need to expand its staff of tutors to 12
to cover current responsibilities.
5.19   School Supervision.   The project seeks to build the capacity of the school supervisory service to
better monitor and assist the schools in such key areas as: (a) performance assessment of teachers,
principals and schools, and (b) in-service training and orientation of teachers and principals in school
management concepts and effective school operations. To support these objectives, the project would
provide:
(a)    Fellowships (total of two staff years) for two persons each to pursue a one-year advanced
training program in school supervision, with particular attention to training in methods of
promoting school effectiveness, coupled with brief attachments to relevant external
agencies;
(b)    Furniture, equipment and supplies, including computers and software,
24



(c)    Civil works for office space; and
(d)    Local training, including:
(i)    periodic training courses for supervisors and principals to keep them abreast of
system developments/reforms in planning, curriculum, testing, educational
materials and teacher training, thereby helping to build the requisite support
system for the reform process; and
(ii)   training bv supervisors and other specialized MOE staff, as required, for
principals and teachers on the above topics, with similar objectives; and
(iii)   training of school principals and vice principals in school management and
organization.
5.20   Curriculum Development.      To provide the requisite technical expertise to continually review
and revise, as appropriate, the syllabi for the primary and lower secondary curricula, with special attention
to the core subjects--mathematics, language arts, social studies and science--and to streamline the curricula,
the project would strengthen the Curriculum Development Unit (CDU), by providing:
(a)    Fellowships (4 staff years) for four persons to pursue one-year advanced level training
programs in curriculum design, research, evaluation and supervision, one in each of the
four core subject areas;
(b)    Civil Works for Office space;
(c)    Supplementary office furniture, equipment and supplies, including computers, software,
equipment maintenance;
(d)    Local training, via (workshops) for MOE staff, principals, TAMCC tutors and teachers to
be conducted by the returned fellows, and
(e)    Studies relating to effectiveness of syllabi and curricula
5.21   To support improved teaching of syllabi at the school level, the project would finance:
(a)    Science kits (priority science equipment) and related storage units for this equipment for
up to 60 primary schools, to further enhance science teaching;
(b)    Social studies kits and mathematics kits for up to 60 primary schools;
(c)    Supplementary instructional supplies, equipment and materials for select secondary
schools, especially in science, on the basis of lists of schools and equipment to be agreed
with the Bank and Association in advance.
At least one kit in each subject area would be supplied to the Teacher Training department of
TAMCC for demonstration purposes.
5.22   Production and Procurement of Educational Materials.  The project also would strengthen the
capacity of MOE to prepare and produce educational materials (including textbooks, especially for the
early grades, supplementary materials, teacher support materials, etc.) and to procure educational
25



materials. The impact of textbooks on student achievement is well documented and understood. With
expert assistance, MOE would review cost-effective options regarding procurement, preparation,
publication, manufacturing and distribution of textbooks and supporting materials, with a view to
maximizing local (particularly private sector) participation in these processes, as appropriate. MOE would
also adopt improved methods of textbook selection, standardizing and streamlining the number of textbooks
per subject, to the extent feasible, as well as exploring additional measures to ease the financial burden of
textbook purchase on parents. Educational materials, especially textbooks, are needed especially in multi-
grade teaching situations. Teachers now have to purchase textbooks for their use on the job. Many
students are without their full complement of textbooks for reasons of financial capacity. This sub-
component would set MOE on the path to finding feasible ways of addressing the quality and cost of
textbooks and their equitable distribution.
5.23   Specifically, the project would finance:
(a)    Fellowships (two staff years) for two degree holders each to pursue a one-year program of
advanced training, one in general editing and publishing and the other in art editing and
publishing, with subsequent attachments to appropriate publishing houses;
(b)    Expert services (eight months) for two specialists to include: (i) six months of assistance to
help the MOE to determine its policy and role in regard to preparing, publishing and
distributing educational materials and to evaluate and adopt, as appropriate, alternative
methods of procuring materials, and (ii) two months of assistance to advise on educational
materials production and desk-top publishing. The experts would train local staff in
publishing and production tasks respectively;
(c)    Civil Works for office space;
(d)    Office furniture, equipment and supplies, including paper, to support expanded and
improved manuscript development, word processing and desk top publishing, etc., and
equipment maintenance;
(e)    Supplementary instructional equipment, materials and supplies, including text books in the
core subjects, in about 10 selected primary schools with preference given to schools which
are performing poorly in the CEE and SLC and to schools where multi-grade teaching is
being adopted to cope with the adjustment in teacher to student ratios, on the basis of lists
of schools and materials to be supplied, such lists to be agreed in advance with the Bank
and the Association.
(f)    A supply of basic textbooks for use by teachers of Grades 1-9 in each primary and
secondary school;
(g)    Local training in publishing and production tasks by the experts, and in writing and
illustrating by the returned fellows; and
(h)    Studies concerning the supply of educational materials and their impact on learning and
teaching.
5.24   Educational Testing and Measurement. Systematic and scientific evaluation of student
performance is essential in the educational process to guide both the student and the teacher as well as the
26



management of the system as to areas of strength and weakness so that remedial steps can be taken in a
timely manner. To improve the current system of terminal exams and to broaden it to cover testing within
the primary and secondary cycles, an Educational Testing and Examinations (ETX) Unit would be
established within MOE. The principal functions of the Unit would be to: 1) evaluate and modify, as
appropriate, current terminal examinations given at the end of primary and senior primary education, i.e.,
the Common Entrance Examination and the School Leaving Certificate Examination; 2) develop, pilot test,
and introduce new exams to be given nationwide at designated points (particularly two years before the
CEE) in the primary cycle and at Form 3 of the secondary school, to better measure student and school
perfomnance; 3) develop national norms and desired achievement standards; and 4) conduct research on
achievement and learning.
5.25   To directly support the new ETX Unit, the project would provide:
(a)    Two fellowships (total of 2 staff years) for persons to pursue advanced studies in
Educational Testing and Measurement; and to serve on a suitable short-term attachment
subsequent to training (possibly at the Caribbean Examinations Council--CXC); one of the
fellows should have a strong mathematics/science background and the other a language
arts or social science background; one of them should be strong in psychology;
(b)    Expert services (6 months) to assist ETX at key points;
(c)    Civil works for office space to include especially secure working space (a walk-in vault);
(d)    Office furniture, equipment and supplies for data analysis, word processing, scoring
(including optical scanning), desk-top publishing, and printing;
(e)    Funding for studies, including pilot testing of new tests, establishment of norms and
standards of achievement and for school evaluation (including school-based continuous
assessment), and analysis and dissemination of results of tests and examinations,
development of curriculum evaluation methods, studies of significant disparities in student
achievement by school, district, gender and any other important factor, and the initiation of
longitudinal studies, and
(f)    Local on-the-job training, including item writing workshops as well as orientation seminars
for principals and teachers in the interpretation and constructive use of test scores.
Expansion of Access to Schools Component (US$4.7 million equivalent, or 55 percent of total base
costs)
5.26   The project would expand access to basic (in particular, secondary) education and assist the MOE
to rehabilitate selected primary schools in urgent need of such action. A school mapping exercise,
conducted with expert assistance in June 1995, identified serious shortfalls in secondary school places and
the need for a more equitable geographic distribution of such places; however, the study confirmed that,
overall, an expansion of enrollment capacity of the primary school system was not necessary. The project
would include provision for an increase of at least 525 secondary places (one new school), and a modest
expansion of about 140 places at an existing secondary school, both of the schools being located outside St.
George's. This additional space, which would accommodate about seven percent of the 12-16 age group,
coupled with better utilization of space in existing secondary schools, is expected to permit primary to
secondary transition rates to rise to around 68 percent by the Year 2000. The project would also provide
27



for reconstruction of two existing Assisted primary schools that are now housed in unsuitable
accommodation. The new primary school buildings and the secondary school expansion will be
constructed on lands which now belong to the two churches concerned (Catholic and Anglican
respectively).
5.27   To these ends, the project would finance:
(a)    Civil works, furniture and equipment, and equipment maintenance for one new secondary
school in Westerhall (for which a suitable site has been selected), to increase coverage in
an un-served area, and expansion and improvement of St. Andrew's Anglican Secondary
School (SAASS) in Grenville, and
(b)    Civil Works for replacement of two existing primary schools (St. John's RC School in
Guoyave and St. Theresa's RC School in St. David's) and supplementary furniture and
equipment;
(c)    Rehabilitation of selected primary and secondary schools with urgent needs according to a
programn to be agreed in the light of the priorities indicated in the ongoing inventory of
school facilities, subject to a ceiling of US$100,000 equivalent for any one school.
The schedule of accommodation of the works to be undertaken under (a) and (b) above is provided
in Annex 5, Appendix.
5.28   To complement project-financed activities, the Government, via the MOE, would undertake the
training of select school staff in preventive maintenance and mobilization of community support for
maintenance. The Government would ensure either (a) public access to any public school constructed on
church lands or (b) public ownership or lease of the lands for the construction of such schools.
28



6. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Project Costs
6.1     The total project cost is estimated at US$9.9 million equivalent, including duties and taxes
(US$0.6 million equivalent) physical contingencies and price increases. The foreign exchange component
represents US$7.6 million equivalent, or 77 percent of total project cost. A summary of project costs by
major components is provided in Table 6.1. As a percentage of base costs, financing for the three major
components is as follows: Management and Planning, 19 percent, lmproving Educational Quality, 26
percent, and Expansion of Access, 55 percent. Table 6.2 provides project cost by key categories of
expenditure, disaggregated by investrnent and recurrent costs. Detailed cost tables are provided in Annex
6, Table 1.
6.2     The cost estimates are based on prices as of June 1995. To the base cost of the civil works, 12
percent has been added to cover the costs of professional consultant services, to meet the needs for
architectural design and tender preparation and contract administration.
6.3     ContinRency Allowances.           Total contingencies of US$1.4 million equivalent represent 16
percent of baseline project cost. These include physical contingencies of US$0.9 million equivalent,
averaging 10 percent across the discrete components. Price contingencies (US$0.5 million equivalent),
represent six percent of project baseline cost, and are based on the following assumptions: (a) a local
inflation rate of 3.0 percent in 1995, and 3.6 percent per year thereafter; and (b) price increases for foreign
costs, estimated in US dollars, of 3.3 percent in 1995, and 2.7 percent for the remaining four years of
project implementation. Cost calculations also assume a constant exchange rate of EC$2.7 to US$ 1.00 for
the five-year project implementation period.
Table 6.1:  Summary Cost Table by Component
Grenada
Basic Education Projct
Campone,enb Project Cost Summary
%      % Total
(EC$ 000)              (US$ '000)       Foreign    Bae
Loal  Foreign   Total   Local Forelgn  Total  Excange    CiU
A. Strengthening Management and Planning                   817   3,681   4,498    303   1,363   1.666       82        19
B. Improving Educatimal Quality                            952   4,920   5,871    352   1,822  2,175        84       25
C. Expansion and Rehabilitaticn of School Places          3,438   9,275  12,713   1,273  3,435  4,709       73        55
Total BASELlINE COSIS                                     5,207   17,876  23,083   1,928  6,621   8,549      77       100
Physical Contingencies                                   647   1.750   2,397    239    648   U8           73        10
Price Contingencies                                      302     935   1,237    120    371    491         76         6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       6,155  20,562  26,717  2,288  7,640  9,928         77       116
29



Table 6.2: Summary Cost Table by Expenditures Accounts
Grenada
Basic Education Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
%    % Total
(ECS '000)              (USS '000)        Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total Exchange  Costs
1. Investment Costs
Civil Works                               4,029    9,402   13,431   1,492   3,482   4,974      70      5
Goods                                       345    3,432    3,777     128   1,271   1,399      91      1
Training                                    338      338     675    125    125    250          50
Technical Assistance                        258    4,422    4,681     96   1,638   1,734       94      2
Studies                                     146      146      292     54      54    108        50
Total Investment Costs                      5,116   17,740   22,856   1,895   6,570   8,465      78      9
2. Total Recurrent Costs                       91      136     227      34      50      84       60
Total BASELINE COSTS                         5,207   17,876   23,083   1,928   6,621   8,549     77    10
Physical Contingencies                      647    1,750    2,397    239    648    888         73      1
Price Contingencies                         302      935    1,237    120    371    491         76
Total PROJECT COSTS                          6,155   20,562   26,717   2,288   7,640   9,928     77    11
B. Recurrent Costs and Project Sustainability
6.4    Incremental Recurrent Costs.   New recurrent costs to be generated by this project are estimated
to be about US$0.77 million equivalent by the end of the decade in current prices. Detailed estimates of
recurrent costs to be generated by the project are presented in Annex 6 Appendix. The new costs are
attributable mainly to: (a) increased allocations required to pay additional staff to operate the key units of
the MOE involved in the education reform process; (b) additional allowances for school supplies and
materials and for maintenance of school plant; (c) operating expenditures for new secondary school places,
and (d) maintenance costs for the equipment in the new MOE offices. However, these costs are not all
incremental because they are largely offset by the savings generated from the adjustment in the teacher-to-
student ratios. The overall recurrent budget of MOE is expected to grow by less than one percent per year
over the project implementation period, and this growth is attributable solely to modest growth in the non
project subsectors.
6.5    These incremental costs will be offset by the US$0.8 million equivalent in savings projected to be
generated by that year from the downward adjustments in the teacher to student ratios planned for the
1995-2000 period (Annex 3 Appendix and Annex 6 Appendix). This underscores the importance of rapid
implementation of, and adherence to, such an adjustment process.
6.6    Project Sustainabilitv.  The proposed project is consistent with development priorities enunciated
by the govermnent and MOE; it is also in harmony with the OECS Reform Strategy. The planned
qualitative improvements and expansion of access to secondary education are widely viewed as essential to
achieve desired economic growth and social development objectives. Requisite Government financing for
the project, including its contribution of US$1.7 million equivalent (net of taxes) to the project costs over
30



the five year period and incremental debt service associated therewith, can be met, as they represent less
than I percent of the 1994 GDP. Further, the project will generate a net decrease of US$0.1 million in
recurrent expenditure in respect of the subsectors directly affected by the project (Table 5 of Annex3,
Appendix) Overall, the project, taking into account the adjustment measures proposed, would result in a
decline of the number of persons employed in the sector and in the personal emoluments budget for the
sector.
Table 6.3     Average Annual Fiscal Implication of the Proposed Basic Education Project
(In Percent of GDP)
1996-2000              2001-2010
Estimated Incremental Cost                          0.0                     0.0
Incremental Debt Service                            .02                     .11
Total Incremental Cost                              .02                      .11
Memorandum item:
Public Sector Current Surlus                        2.0                     2.5
6.7    Grenada is eligible for IBRD borrowing under Single Currency Loan (SCL) terms because: (i) it
has no unconverted VLR82 loans, and (ii) the proposed loan does not exceeds US$100 millions, although
it represents 100 percent of IBRD lending program for FY 1996. Presented with the choice of loan
product, the Government of Grenada decided on the fixed exchange rate US dollar SCL option. This
choice was based on the effort of eliminating exchange rate volatility (the EC dollar is pegged to the US
dollar) and minimizing interest rate uncertainty for a social sector project such as the proposed one
6.8    The technical assistance program included in this project has been designed to maximize
development of local expertise and capacity in order to sustain project benefits well into the future. The
mix of expert services and fellowships, structured to complement one another, emphasizes staff capacity
building. Orientation seminars and study tours have been included to familiarize senior staff with key
aspects of educational reform. Fellows will be selected with attention to their capacity to benefit from the
respective training program and the program will be tailored as far as possible to their job needs in Grenada
and be complemented in several cases by short attachments to relevant agencies or entities abroad. .
Eligibility criteria for all project-supported training will be specified in the Project Implementation Manual.
These fellowship recipients will be drawn largely from the public service (teaching and the civil service).
Their job experience will sharpen awareness of their own training needs. Where a suitable training
program exists within UWI (which has offered to design courses to suit the needs) this would be given
preference on grounds of economy, relevance to country circumstances and enhanced scope for
harmonizing the education systems of the OECS. In keeping with normal Government policy, all fellows
will be bonded for a duration of time pro-rated with the length of their training. Upon completion of
training and return to Grenada, all fellows will be expected to produce reports on their training experience
and to conduct seminars to disseminate their newly acquired knowledge to others. Most of the expert
services will be provided in a series of short term consultancies, with these services timed in order that: (a)
while local staff remain in direct control of operations, they will receive external assistance at certain
critical junctures; and (b) the tenure of fellowships and expert service periods are optimally synchronized.
Finally, all experts will be required to train staff and to prepare manuals to help guide staff in how specific
key tasks should be organized and programmed.
31



C. Financing Plan
6.9   The proposed project would be financed by an IBRD Loan and an IDA Credit totaling US$7.6
million equivalent, representing 77 percent of the total project cost. The combined Loan and Credit would
cover 100 percent of total foreign exchange investment expenditure and 50 percent of local exchange
investment expenditure for goods. The Government would finance US$1.7 million equivalent or 1 00
percent of all local exchange investment costs (net of taxes), except for goods financed at 50 percent of
their local exchange investrnent costs, and 100 percent of local and foreign exchange recurrent costs.
6.10   Table 6.3 provides a summary of the project financing plan. Annex 6 Table 2 includes the detailed
financing plan by project implementation year, and by component. For Project implementation, the
phasing of the Government financing and the Government's inclusion of the required amounts in the
Annual Estimates of Expenditure will be identified as a Government obligation in both the Education
Strategy Letter and the PIM.
Table 6.4    Financing Plan
US$ Million   Share
.,,,,,,,,,,(,i,,,,l,,dIII. igcontiiencies and taxes)
G'Jovernment                                                 2.3     23
IBRD/IDA                                                     7.6     77
TOTAL                                                        9.9    100
6.11   Retroactive financing of up to SDR 512,000 (US$0.76 million equivalent), or 10 percent of
combined IBRD and IDA project financing, would be provided to reimburse the Government for eligible
expenditures incurred after October 1, 1995, to enable the Government to immediately commence requisite
steps to expedite the reform process, to include:
(a)    equipping of the newly established Project Management Unit, training of its staff in such
general areas as procurement and Bank-specific procedures, and provision of
(i)   study tours to visit other project units in the Caribbean and
(i)   expert services to assist in operationalizing the Unit;
(b)    architectural design work and tenders preparation for the civil works program; and
(c)    preparation of specifications for the educational equipment and furniture to be procured
under the project. This retroactive financing is required to permnit these important outlays
to be eligible for consideration for immediate reimbursement upon Loan and Credit
Effectiveness.
32



7. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management and Coordination
7.1   The project would be executed by the MOE through the creation of a Project Managemnent Unit
(PMU) with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and the Association, and with at least
three full-time professional personnel -- a Project Manager, a Procurement Officer, and an Accountant --
with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank and Association, assisted by sufficient numbers of support
staff.
7.2   In implemeting the project, the PMU and other entities involved in project execution would be
guided by a Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The PIM will include, inter alia the following main
areas:
(a)    a summary of the technical content of the components and sub-components of the project;
(b)    organizational arrangements, including specific relationships, responsibilities and linkages
between distinct entities of the MOE and the PMU relating to project execution;
(c)    operational procedures to be followed in project implementation, including: criteria for
rehabilitation of primary schools; eligibility for, and processing requirements relating to,
project-supported training (fellowships, in-service local training and study tours); planning
and policy-related studies;
(d)    disbursement and procurement arrangements, including the standard bidding documents to
be used for works and goods, and standard consultant contracts and IBRD and IDA
review;
(e)   financial management and control arrangements, including management of the Project
Account and Special Account, processing of withdrawal applications, and Terms of
Reference (TORs) for internal and external project audits and time table for submission of
Annual Audit reports to IBRD and IDA;
(f)   the implementation schedule for the project and the project monitoring and evaluation
indicators to guide assessment of project implementation performance during the Annual
and Mid-Term Project Reviews; and
(g)    TORs for the professional staff of the PMU and all experts to be employed under the
project;
(h)   the obligations of the Government at project completion, including preparation of the ICR
and plans for the future of the project.
7.3    As a condition of Loan and Credit Effectiveness, the Government will be expected to have ensured
that the PIM had been issued, in terms satisfactory to the Bank and Association, and provided appropriate
assurances that the Manual is in full force and effect. The Credit and Loan Agreements indicate that,
subject to the specific provisions of these Agreements, the PIM would be binding on the Government.
33



B. Institutional Arrangements
7.4    As a source of advice and assistance during project implementation, a Project Advisory Committee
(PAC) would be established with representation from the MOE (with the Project Manager serving as
Secretary), and from the Ministries responsible for the portfolios of finance and public works. The PAC
will meet periodically to review implementation performance and will be convened, as needed, to address
any urgent matters which might arise over the course of project execution. To ensure achievement of
project objectives, the MOE will need to collaborate closely with several other government entities,
including the Ministry of Finance, a representative of which will countersign all disbursement applications
for the project.
C. Implementation Program
7.5    The project will be implemented over the five-year period 1996-2000. A Surmmary Implementation
Program, by component and sub-component, is presented in Annex 7 Table 1. The project Completion
Date would be December 31, 2000, and the Loan and Credit Closing Dates would be June 30, 2001. Civil
works execution, overseas fellowships, and provision of expert services are heavily concentrated over the
first two years of project implementation in order to ensure that these key inputs are rapidly completed so
that the education reform process can be launched as expeditiously as possible. Thus, as highlighted in
Annex 6 Table IC, US$6.3 million equivalent or 63 percent of total project cost is expected to be incurred
over the initial 24 months of project execution.
7.6    As would be confirmed in the PIM, not later than six months after the Closing Dates, or such later
dates as may be agreed for this purpose, Government will prepare and finnish to the Bank and Association
a plan of such scope and detail as IBRD and IDA may reasonably request, for the future operation of the
Project, will exchange views with IBRD and IDA on such plan, and will carry out such plan, taking into
account IBRD and IDA comments on it.
D. Procurement
7.7    The Bank has received the Government's Store Rules and Financial Rules. Officials have stated
that the guidelines of the Government conform to those of the Bank and other external agencies, such as
CDB and the European Union. While civil works under Bank-financed projects in the education sector in
many countries have usually been procured with only minor problems, the procurement of instructional
equipment materials and supplies has proven difficult. Some of the more common and costly problems that
occur during the procurement process for such items in various countries include:
(a)   limited technical knowledge of optimum types and sources of educational equipment,
materials and supplies and, hence, difficulty in writing precise and appropriate technical
specifications;
34



(b)   inexperience in packaging contracts to generate potential economies of scale regarding
purchase prices;
(c)    difficulties in appropriately timing the placement of orders in order to synchronize delivery
dates with the actual time that the given goods will be required, particularly to coincide
with the state of readiness of civil works;
(d)   limitations in the capacity to conduct the technical evaluation of bids;
(e)    failure to take advantage in bidding documents of opportunities for domestic preference
acceptable to the Bank;
(f)   insufficient attention to inspection of goods and bills of lading upon arrival of procured
items; and
(g)   the virtual neglect of enforcement of insurance and warranty clauses.
In varying degrees many of these problems were encountered under the OECS Regional vocational and
Technical Education Project (Credit 1785 CRG).
7.8    Several steps have been taken to minimize the risk of such problems occurring in this project.
First, at (or prior to) commencement of project implementation, the full time Procurement Officer of the
PMU, will receive intensive, practical training, and attend relevant Bank-sponsored seminars. Second,
specialized expert services will be provided at critical points in the procurement process, particularly in the
first stages of project implementation, to assist as well as to further train the Procurement Officer in areas
such as bidding technical specifications, processing and evaluation. The designation of a full-time
Procurement Officer to the PMU responds directly to the experience gained in the OECS Regional
Vocational and Technical Education Project (Credit 1785-CRG), in particular the need for constant,
careful attention to detailed selection and specifications of goods (i.e., furniture and educational and related
equipment and materials) to be purchased, and to contracting procedures, ensuring: (a) upstream,
compliance with Bank guidelines for selection of consultants and consulting firms, and procurement of civil
works and goods; and (b) downstream, that acquired goods meet specifications and that equipment is
appropriately and safely installed and utilized.
7.9    To both guide and expedite the procurement process, specification lists for goods to be procured
with project financing, and bidding documents for the procurement of civil works and goods based on
standard Bank documents, will be prepared according to the Implementation Program. To further advance
preparation of civil works, architectural designs will be completed with retroactive financing, in order to
permit initiation of the actual bidding process immediately upon declaration of Loan and Credit
Effectiveness. Procurement procedures to be followed for all major categories of expenditures to be
financed by IBRD and IDA are described below and summarized in Table 7.1.
35



Table 7.1:       Procurernet Arran=ement
Grenada
Basic Education Reform Project
Procurement Arrangements - Non ICB/NCB Aggregated as Other
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
International    National
Competitive   Competitive
Bidding       Bidding     Other  N.B.F.   Total
Civil Works
Construction /a                                      4.0          1.0      1.0        -      6.0
(2.8)        (0.7)    (0.7)             (4.2)
Goods
Equipment and Furniture
Computers and Software. /b                                        -      0.2        -      0.2
(0.2)             (0.2)
Other Goods: /c
Other Equipment, Vehicles, Furnitures             0.2             -      1.2        -      1.4
Books and educ. materials, supplies              (0.2)                 (1.0)              (1.3)
Technical Assistance
Works Design/Eng./SPN /d                               -            -      0.6         -     0.6
(0.6)             (0.6)
Experts /d                                                                 0.5        -      0.5
(0.5)             (0.5)
Fellowships /e                                         -            -      0.8         -     0.8
(0.8)             (0.8)
Studies If                                             -            -      0.1        -      0.1
(0.1)             (0.1)
Training lf                                            -            -      0.3         -     0.3
(0.1)             (0.1)
Maintenance
Equipment                                              -            -        -      0.1      0.1
Total                                                  4.2           1.0      4.6      0.1      9.9
(3.0)        (0.7)    (3.9)             (7.6)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRDIIDA
Exvlanation of the methods used under the cateeorY 'Other':
\a Lump-sum fixed price contracts consistent with Bank Guidelines for contracts valued at less than US$100,000
\b Limited International Bidding
\c International Shopping & Limited International Bidding
\d According to Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
\e Procedure satisfactory to the Bank
\f According to Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants and Local Shopping Procedures
36



Civil Works
7.10 Civil works to be procured with project financing (expected to total US$6.0 million equivalent,
including contingencies) consist of the following:
(i)   one new secondary school of 525 places in Westerha11 and the upgrading and
expansion by 140 places of the SAASS secondary school;
(ii)   the replacement of two primary schools, one of 600 places and the other of 245
places and;
(iii)   rehabilitation of selected primary and secondary schools, and
(iv)    new office space for MOE management and technical units.
7.11  In view of the small value of all such works, the Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) to be
used for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be "Procurement of Works - Smaller Contracts"
and these same documents, modified as necessary, would be used for National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
All civil works contracts valued at US$0.5 million and above would be awarded on the basis of ICB,
consistent with IBRD and IDA guidelines."5 Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or
more, but less than the equivalent of US$0.5 million per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
US$1.0 million, may be procured on the basis of NCB. Civil works, (including works for rehabilitation of
selected schools), estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to US$1.0 million may, consistent with IBRD and IDA guidelines, be procured under
lumpsum, fixed price contracts, awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified
contractors in response to a witten invitation and made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation and has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. All school
rehabilitation works would require full documentation to include: certification by the MOE that the works
were of a priority nature, consistent with the findings of the school facilities inventory; an approved budget
for the subject work; review by the consultants for civil works of designs and/or bidding documents prior to
initiating any such works, and certification by the consultants for civil works that the work was efficiently,
fully and satisfactorily completed; and appropriate documentation of national shopping procedures applied
in the selection of contractors, all of which documentation would be maintained for review by IBRD and
IDA supervision missions. No individual school would normally be expected to receive rehabilitation
works in excess of an aggregate amount of US$100,000 equivalent.
Goods
7.12   School and Office Equipment (estimated to cost US$385,000 equivalent, including contingencies),
Furniture (US$244,000), Vehicles (US$92,000), Books and other educational materials (US$331,000) and
Office Sup,lies (US$273,000)--a total of US$1.4 million equivalent, including contingencies- would be
grouped into packages as far as practicable and procured in the following manner consistent with Bank
Guidelines:
(a)   contract packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more may be procured
through ICB;
5 All references in this Report to Bank Guidelines on procurement are related to the Bank publication:
Guidelines. Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. The World Bank, January 1995.
37



(b)    contract packages estimated to cost more than US$15,000 but less than US$50,000
equivalent and US$900,000 or less in the aggregate may be procured through international
shopping procedures, and
(c)    contract packages estimated to cost less than US$15,000 equivalent and less than
US$300,000 in the aggregate may be procured through national shopping procedures.
7.13   Computer Hardware and Software (estimated to cost US$209,000 equivalent, including
contingencies) would be grouped into packages as far as practicable and procured in the following manner
consistent with Bank Guidelines:
(a)    Contract packages estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or more may be procured through LIB;
exceptionally, and with previous Bank no objection, packages of small value may be procured through
shopping procedures.
7.14   With regard to vehicles and computers, bidding lists of eligible bidders would include only
manufacturers who have established maintenance and service facilities in Grenada or in neighboring
countries.
Technical Assistance
7.15  (a)    Professional service contracts (expected to total US$629,000 equivalent including
contingencies) for architectural design, tendering, and supervision/administration of contracts relating to the
execution of civil works would be procured according to Bank guidelines for the use of consultants.'6
7.16  (b)    Expert Services (expected to total US$453,000 equivalent, including contingencies), to
include contracts for consultants and consulting firms, would be procured in accordance with the World
Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. Details of project-financed Expert Services (excluding
professional services for civil works) and Fellowships are provided in Annex 7 Table 2.
7.17  (c)    Fellowships (expected to total US$793,000 equivalent including contingencies) would be
awarded only to persons suitably qualified to enter upon the agreed training programs, following
government selection procedures acceptable to the Bank.
7.18  (d)    Local Traininz (expected to total US$278,000 equivalent including contingencies) would
be arranged by the specialized service of MOE concerned and the PMU. Trainers would be selected in
consultation between the concerned section of MOE and the PMU.
7.19  (e)    For Studies (expected to total US$121,000 equivalent, including contingencies), the PMU
and the concerned department of MOE would consult on the selection of consulting services and the PMU
would procure these in keeping with IBRD and IDA gtuidelines. For procurement of any necessary
materials, in view of the small amounts involved, national shopping would be used.
16 Guidehnes.Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agencv. The
World Bank, August 1981.
38



IBRD and IDA Review
7.20   Government assurances would be obtained and incorporated in the PIM that: (a) prior to initiating
any civil works or acquisition of goods to be procured through ICB or LIB, and for those civil works to be
procured via NCB, it will submit to the Bank for its prior review all relevant documentation; (b) with
regard to consultants and consulting firms, all proposed contracts and related terms of reference, short lists
of candidates, proposed fees, etc. would be submitted for prior IBRD and IDA review to ensure consistency
with Bank guidelines on use of consultants; and (c) prior to the award of any fellowship it will submit to
the Bank and IDA for its review, to ensure consistency with project objectives, the names and resumes of
all short listed candidates, the proposed training program and training institution, the proposed duration of
training, and the estimated cost. The budget for local training and for studies would be agreed with the
Bank in advance of initiating such activities and all relevant documentation concerning expenditures on
agreed studies and training would be retained for review by Bank/IDA supervision missions. The level of
prior review coverage as a percentage of Bank financed contracts would be approximately 60 percent of
goods and works and 100 percent of consultant contracts.
E. Disbursements and Accounts
7.21   The proposed amount of lending -- Credit of SDR 2.6 million (US$3.8 million equivalent) and a
Loan of US$3.8 million equivalent-- would be disbursed over a five-year period, typical of other IBRD
and IDA-supported social sector projects. Annex 7, Table 3 presents the disbursement forecast for the
Loan and Credit, by semester and by financier. The Loan and Credit are expected to be fully disbursed
over 10 semesters, commencing immediately at Loan and Credit Effectiveness with the disbursement for
retroactive financing and the initial disbursement into the project Special Account. To facilitate timely
project implementation, the Government would establish, mnaintain and operate, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IBRD and IDA, a Special Account in US dollars at a bank acceptable to IBRD and IDA in
Grenada. The Authorized allocation for the Special Account would be US$0.5 million equivalent, with an
initial deposit to be made of US$0.25 million equivalent, and such allocation to remain limited to an
amount equivalent to US$0.25 million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account,
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association, shall be equal
to or exceed the equivalent of US$ 1.0 million. As the PIM would indicate: (a) the Special Account would
be managed by the PMU of the MOE, with all disbursements made under authorized signatures from
designated representatives of both the Ministry of Finance and the PMU and (b) withdrawal applications
for replenishment of the Special Account would be prepared by the PMU in accordance with Bank policies
and procedures.
7.22   The Government would open a Project Account in a bank acceptable to IBRD and IDA and deposit
into such account an amount equivalent to not less than US$250,000, for purposes of financing the
implementation of civil works to be carried out under the project, and maintain a positive balance in such
account over the implementation period, in the amounts stipulated in the Development Credit Agreement,
during which period all civil works are expected to be fully executed.
7.23   Table 7.2 contains the projected Loan and Credit disbursement plan. Disbursements would be
effected against the following expenditure categories, by percentage of IBRD and IDA financing: (a) civil
works, for construction of the new secondary at Westerhall school and the facilities at the existing
39



secondary school in Grenville, the office space for MOE and the relocated primary schools and for
professional fees related thereto for design, tender preparation and contract administration--72 percent of
total cost; (b) civil works for rehabilitation of selected primary and secondary schools and professional fees
related thereto--72 percent of total cost, subject to a maximum not to exceed US$ 100,000 per contract;
(c) goods, including all equipment, furniture, educational materials, including textbooks, computers and
software, and supplies and miscellaneous-I 00 percent of foreign expenditures and 50 percent of local
expenditures; (d) technical assistance, including expert services --100 percent of eligible expenditures,
fellowships--95 percent of eligible expenditures, and (e) training and studies-50 percent of total cost.
Table 7.2:      Loan and credit Disbursement Allocation
Suggested Aiocation of
Loan and Credit Proceeds
IBRD Loan   IDA Credk (T*)            Disbursenent
(USS '000)     (SDRs '000)             Percentage
1. Civil Works
A. Construction and Prof. Fees (*)                   1,760.0         1,180.0             72 percent of total cost
B. Renov./Repair of Schools and Prof. Fees             356.0          238.0              72 percent of total cost
100 percent of foreign expenditure
2. Goods                                               697.0          467.0   and 50 percent of local expenditure
3. Consultants' services                               216.0          145.0   100 percent of eligible expenditure
4. Fellowships                                         359.0          240.0    95 percent of eligible expenditure
5. Studies and local training                           96.5           65.0    50 percent of eligible expenditure
6. UnaLocated                                          341.5          265.0
otal                                                  3,826.0         2,600.0
C construction of one new secondary School in Westerhall, the upgrading and expansion of the SAAS secondary school,
the replacement of two primary schools, and new office space for MOE management and technical units
- SDRJUS$ = 1.49385
7.24    Withdrawal applications for civil works with a contract value of US$100,000 equivalent or more,
and goods with a contract value of US$50,000 equivalent or more, would be supported by fill
documentation. Disbursements for all contracts for goods and civil works of less than the above respective
amounts, including works associated with the rehabilitation and repair of primary schools, would be made
on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) certified by the PMU. Supporting documentation for
these latter expenditures would be retained by the PMU and be readily available for periodic review by
IBRD and IDA supervision missions.
40



F. Financial Management, Accounting and Audits
7.25   The existing financial management system in MOE would require strengthening over the medium-
tern in order to support the modernization of the administration of the MOE. Improvements are needed in
accounting and budgeting and in financial analysis and planning. To these ends, the project supports
overseas graduate training of a person in financial management and analysis, as well as the establishment
of an integrated, computerized education data system, that would include financial records. With respect to
project accounts, the Project Implementation Manual will delineate financial management and control
procedures, and provide TORs for intemal and extemal audits, satisfactory to IBRD and IDA.
7.26   The MOE would keep separate accounts for project incurred expenditures according to the
proposed Charts of Accounts (as detailed in Schedule I of the Loan and Credit Agreements) and prepare a
monthly statement of expenditures. This procedure will facilitate the preparation of withdrawal
applications preparation and expedite the disbursement process. Annual audits of all project accounts,
including the Special Account, will be undertaken by an independent auditor. Initially, it is proposed that
this independent auditor be the Government's Director of Audit. Audit reports under TORs satisfactory to
IBRD and IDA would be prepared and submitted to the Bank and Association not later than four months
after the end of each fiscal year, i.e., not later than April 30. Should the Government Audit Department at
any time prove to be unable to carry out such audits in a timely fashion, the use of a private sector firm
would be required by the Bank and the Association. For this latter purpose, the project includes funding
for any necessary technical assistance.
G. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
(1) Project Performance Reporting
7.27   Overall responsibility for monitoring, evaluation and reporting of project perfbrmance would be
assigned to the PMU. The PMU also would be responsible for preparation of the Borrower's section of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) that would be transmitted to the IBRD and IDA not later than
six months after the Closing Date. To ensure and expedite fulfillment of periodic reporting requirements
relating to project implementation status, and to facilitate the conduct of regular project supervision
missions, in keeping with the procedures to be included in the PIM, (a) consolidated project progress
reports (starting in 1996) would be prepared by the PMU each six months, i.e., on March 31 and
September 30 each year, and would be distributed to IBRD and IDA; and (b) the September 30 report
would serve as the basis for an annual in depth review of project performance to be carried out jointly by
the Government, IBRD and IDA.
7.28   The annual September 30 project status report will include: (i) a summary of the project
performance over the past year, including agreed project monitoring and evaluation indicators, as are
delineated in Annex 7 Table 5; and (ii) a detailed work program and budget (that would include planned
contracting of expert services and initiation of planning and policy-related studies over the given year) for
the forthcoming year of project implementation, including a realistic implementation schedule and targets
for moving the project toward its successful completion. The Project Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
will be delineated in the PIM.
41



(2) Project Reviews
7.29   Annual reviews of project performance would take place no later than November 30 each calendar
year 1997-2000 between the IBRD and IDA and Government. As part of such Annual Review, the MOE
may be asked to prepare an action plan, satisfactory to IBRD and IDA, to make adjustments in project
implementation, as the review process may indicate to be needed to achieve project objectives. In such
case, the Government should furnish this action plan to IBRD/IDA no later than one month after
conclusion of the respective review, and shall thereafter carry out such action plan in accordance with its
terms. A joint Mid-Term Review of the performance of the Basic Education Reform Project and the
education reform process which it supports would be undertaken not later than September 30, 1998. For
such review, the PMU would prepare, and jointly IBRD, IDA and the Government (and, possibly, CDB)
would review a sumnnary report containing an assessment of: (a) the overall implementation performance
of the project during its first two-and-one-half years in terms of its progress toward achieving the agreed
project objectives, targets and indicators; (b) the adequacy of available and planned project financing; (c)
compliance with IBRD and IDA procurement and disbursement requirements, and (d) the outcome of the
annual audit reports. Subsequent to this review, a plan of action to guide the successful completion of the
project will be prepared.
H. Project Supervision
7.30   During supervision missions, which will be timed so as to follow closely upon the half yearly
reports, the Bank and Association will:
(a)   review the achievements in project implementation against the Monitoring and Evaluation
indicators as set out in Annex 7 Table 5 and covered in the half yearly report;
(b)    assist in resolving problems that have emerged since the previous supervision mission;
(c)    discuss any changes in policy or the functioning of the sector that have a bearing on the
project and project implementation and;
(d)   review selected documents retained in project files pertaining to procurement of goods and
works.
In particular, as the following activities are ongoing, the supervision missions will pay special attention to:
(i)   the adjustment of teacher to student ratios, the changes in the ratio of salary to non
salary expenditures, and the application of resources to school maintenance and
supplies;
(ii)   the preparation and processing of the long range sector plan;
(iii)   the strengthening of management and planning in MOE, including project
management capacity;
(iv)    the program of studies, and
(v)    the quality of expert services provided.
7.31   As this project will be a first effort of the kind in the sector in the country and the investment is
front loaded, the visits of supervision missions will be more frequent in the early stages: every four months
42



in the first year of implementation, every six months thereafter, each visit involving a total of about 3 staff
days. Other ad hoc missions or a longer stay in the field may be necessary for the resolution of specific
problems that may arise.
I. Environmental Impact
7.32   The proposed project does not represent environmental risks. It is expected to be assigned a "C"
environmental classification.
43



8. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
8.33   Proiect Benefits   The principal benefit to be derived from the proposed project is its contribution
to building institutional capacity, particularly at the MOE headquarters, to manage the systems efficiently,
to plan and develop the sector in a cost effective manner, and in cooperation with a reinforced central
planning division to monitor performance of the school system and diagnose and address problems relating
to educational quality. As such, the project would lay the groundwork for effective absorption of future
investments. The project would similarly strengthen management at the school level. The project would
promote increased collaboration between key public and private sector entities involved in the education
sector at the national and regional level; and would be consistent with the OECS Education Reform
Strategy, hence facilitating cooperation with other OECS countries embarking on this process, in particular
in such areas as achievement testing, integrated education data systems, and expansion and upgrading of
educational materials production in which there is common interest. Such cooperation is important because
of the small size of the pool of talent available within each country. Major improvements are expected in
the quality of education provided throughout the compulsory cycle and, hence, in student achievement and
employment potential, from the range of investments directed at expanding and improving the educational
system--trained teachers, modernized and streamlined curricula, more and appropriate educational
materials, professional and more frequent educational testing and measurement, and better maintained
school plant. Improved quality of primary education is expected to help ensure that many more students
will be prepared to benefit fully from secondary education, as access to it increases. The project would
also significantly increase educational opportunities, particularly for youth from the more remote areas.
Some 1500-2000 children are expected to benefit from project support for the provision of textbooks to
disadvantages school. An additional 665 children or about 7% of the secondary school age cohort will have
access to secondary education as a result of project-financed civil works
B. Risks
8.34   The principal risks associated with this project relate to:
(i) the inadequate institutional capacity to carry out the education reform process, including possible failure
to augment the MOE with requisite additional qualified staff; (ii) unavailability of sufficient Government
financing in the difficult fiscal situation to sustain reforms and in view of the vulnerability of the country to
economic shocks and natural disasters; (iii) failure to adjust, and/or to closely monitor compliance with
adjusted, teacher to student ratios in primary and secondary schools; (iv) reluctance to adopt regional,
collaborative approaches, given their inherent delays, even when these may represent the most efficient and
effective long-term approaches, and (v) PMU problems in meeting the administrative demands presented
by heavy front loading of implementation over the first two years, given limited experience with
implementing Bank-financed projects. To minimize potential institutional failures, strong emphasis is
placed on sector planning and institutional strengthening, including extensive staff upgrading via both
44



overseas and local training, and Government assurances that the MOE personnel complement will be
expanded to ensure that expertise exists to fulfill its broad education sector development mandate.
8.35   Given vulnerabilities of this small economy to external factors and shocks, Government project
financing has been kept within easily met ranges at present and projected GDP, and has been concentrated
on investments, that heavily involve local costs i.e., equipment maintenance and the local cost portion of
civil works. Incremental recurrent costs generated by project components, which often hamper
achievement of education sector reforns, will be largely offset by resources to be released from adjusting
teacher to student ratios over the project implementation period. Presentation of a schedule for this
adjustment program will be included in the Education Policy Letter. Minimization of financial risks is
achieved through the choice of loan product by the Government: fixed rate US dollar SCL (para. 6.7).
Moreover, the project places emphasis on the early preparation of a long term sector development plan
which would serve as a vehicle for achieving national consensus on the principal directions of sector
development into the next decade. Finally, the monitoring system and annual evaluations will permit to
adopt timely adjustments in project implementation needed to achieve project objectives.
8.36   To actively promote inter-country collaboration, high priority will continue to be assigned to
pooling technical resources, encouraging use of Caribbean expertise, sharing of experiences, and
developing regional interventions, where appropriate and feasible. Experience gained in preparing and
launching the St. Lucia education will continue to be drawn upon. Several measures are being taken to
facilitate smooth, timely project implementation, amid front loading of investments, including: (a)
advancing start-up of crucial activities, e.g., architectural designs and equipment and furniture specification
lists, to be carried out before Effectiveness; (b) training of PMU staff in key management areas prior to
project commencement, to be facilitated by retroactive financing; and (c) provision of 8 months of Project
Management expert services to support the PMU over the initial months of project execution.
45



9. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
9.1   Formal agreement was reached at negotiations as follows:
(e)   as a condition of Loan/Credit Effectiveness, the Govermment will have:
(i)   transmitted to the Bank and IDA the Education Strategy Letter
satisfactory to the Bank and Association (para. 5.3);
(ii)   established the EPU and PMU and staffed them with professionals with
qualifications satisfactory to the Association and the Bank;
(iii)   adopted the PIM satisfactory to the Bank and Association (paras 7.2 -
7.3);
(iv)    opened a Project Account and deposited therein an amount equivalent to
not less than US$250,000 (para 7.24).
(f)   the Government would carry out the Project in accordance with the PIM;
(g)   the Government would maintain a quarterly balance in the Project Account
equivalent to its funding requirements for the next three months;
(h)   a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the project would be
prepared by the Government at the end of March and September of each
year during project implementation, beginning in 1996;
(i)   the Government would review the March report with the Bank and
Association during May of each year of project implementation and
thereafter take such measures as required to ensure efficient completion of
the project and achievement of project objectives;
(j)   the Government would establish and maintain the ETX and CDU with
functions, responsibilities and staffing satisfactory to the Bank and
Association;
(k)   the Government would comply with the teacher to student ratios set forth
in the Education Strategy letter, and
46



(1)    a Project Advisory Committee comprising a representative of each of the
ministries responsible for public works and finance as well as for education
to advise the PMU during project implementation.
B. Recommendation
9.2   With the above agreements and assurances, the Project would constitute a suitable basis
for a Loan of US$ 3.8 million equivalent and a Credit of SDR 2.6 million to Grenada.
47



ANNEXES AND APPENDICES
48



Basic Data Sheet       Annex 1
GRENADA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Basic Data Sheet
A.      General Country Data                                           Year            SQurc
1. Population Estimate (thousand)                    91        1993            c
2. Population Projection (thousand)                  n.a
3. GNP per Capita (US$)                           2,321        1994            b
4. GNP per Capita -- Real Growth Rate (S)           2.5         1994           b
5. Urban Population (as % of Total)                  n.a
B.      Social Indicators
1. Crude birth rate (per 1,000)                     n.a
2. Crude death rate (per 1,000)                      n.a
3. Average Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)     -0.1       1989-93         c
4. Total Fertility Rate (births per woman)           2.4        1992           c
5. Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)     29         1992           c
6. Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                  71         1992           c
7. Female Labor Force (% of total)                   n.a
C.     Education Data
1. Net Enrollment Rates (% of age group enrolled)
Primary                                            95         1993           d
Secondary                                          63         1993           d
Higher                                             n.a
2. Efficiency Data
Student/Teacher Ratio (public schools)
Primary                                     27:1        1993           d
Secondary                                   19:1        1993           d
Dropout Rates (% per year)
Primary                                      1.2        1993           d
Secondary                                    1.6        1993           d
Repetition Rates
Primary                                        1        1992           d
Secondary                                    13         1993           d
Illiteracy Rates
Female                                       n.a
Total                                        n.a
3. Expenditure Data
Total Public Education Spending as a % of GNP     5.1        1993            e
Total Public Recurrent Education Spending as
a % of Central Govt budget                   16.6        1995            e
Shares of Public Recurrent Education Expenditures
Primary                                      49         1995           e
Secondary                                    24         1995           e
Higher                                       14         1995            e
Other                                         13        1995           e
b: OECS Country Assistance Strategy Paper 1995
c: The World bank Atlas 1995
d: 1992-93/Ministry of Education and Information Basic Educational Statistics
e: Govemment's Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure 1995
49



Enrollment Ratios:    Annex 2
Table I
GRENADA: PROPOSRD BASIC FDU-CAON PROJECT
Enolgt n         d Um nrolm    atio
Estimated            Numbers enrolled in School                           Enrollment Ratio
Popuabion
Age Group       in Age
Group 1992
Primary   Secondary   Terniary   Total                  Net (%)             Gros (%)
5-11            16,241         17,673        203        -      17,876     109 (primary);
110 (overall)
12-15            7,588         4,602       4,235        -      8,837
5-15           23,829         22,275       4,438       -      26,713      93 (primary);
112 (overall)
12-16            9.220         4,888       5,375        -     10,263      58 (secondary);
111 (overall)
5-16            25,461         22,561      5,578        -     28,148      111 (overall)
17+                                9       1,646       770     2,425
TOTAL                          22,570      7,224       770    30,564
Primary                                                                                         138 (5-11 age group);
95 (5-15 age group)
Secondary                                                                  58 (12-16 age group)    78 (12-16 age group)
Source: MOE
No: The figures on the population in the age group have been projected on the basis of the data
supplied by the Central Statistical Office; the data on enrollments come from the MOE statistical
unit. For the yeqr 1992-93, it is unclear why the enrollment figures exceed population figures in
the relevant age groups. The global figures given in para 2.1 refer to 1993-94.
On enrollment, the Law requires the attendance of all children between the ages of five
and sixteen. The primary school is not supposed to (but does) contain persons outside that age
bracket. The picture in primary schools is also confused because the schools are not supposed to
report these extra persons in the statistics but they sometimes do. Moreover, the distinction
between the pre-school that operates in the premises of several primary schools and the primary
school itself is not always clear.
50



Growth of Secondary School System:   Annex 2
Table 2
GRENADA: RASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Growth of Secondary School System
Year                                  Data on Secondary Schools and Junior Secondary Schools (1SS)
Number      New                Converted from ISS    Total Secondaay       Intake from CEE        Intake as % of
to 5-year                  Enrollment                                 candidates
1970/1     14          Hillsborough JSS                                     3230
1971/2     15          Waltham ISS                                          4470
1972/3     16          Boca JSS                                             4773
1973/4     16                                                               4872
1974/5     16                                                               4775
1975/6     16                                                               5067
1976/7     17          Grenville ISS                                        5053                  260                  8.1
1977/8     17                                                               5642                  277                  8.9
1978/9     18          Happy Hill JSS                                       6050                  302                 10.3
1979/80    18                              Happy Hill                       5712                  360                 12.9
1980/1     18                                                               5961                 1032                 32.5
1981/2     18                                                               6287                 1156                 38.5
1982/3     18          Grenvile 5-Yr       JSS absorbed by 5-               6335                 1137                 36.8
Yr
1983/4     18                              Boca                             6686                 1183                 36.6
1984/5     18                              Waltham (becomes                 6508                 1206                 37.8
St. Mark's)
1985/6     18                              Hillsborough                     6421                 1156                 39.4
1986/7     18                                                               6437                 1240                 42.1
1987/8     18                                                               6457                 1251                 53.2
1988/9     18                                                               6395                 1258                 46.3
1989/90    18                                                               6599                 1258                 45.4
1990/1     18                                                               6843                 1333                   46
1991/2     18                                                               7078                 1278                   43
1992/3     18                                                               7310                 1272                 43.7
1993/4     18                                                                n.a.                1305                 43.1
1994/5     18                                                               7205                 1322                 41.6
Source: MOE
51



Chart 1               Annex 2
Grenada
Basic Education Reform Project
Structure of the School System
CXCIGCE
\abar M       CotnuLabor Market
=t=   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  9 ~~~~~~~                           Insiitutinsy
Pie-School                                                  4                                                                     4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sho
CEE                ~~~~Senior Pnrimry                       Certificatc 
l Cyce                   o    y yeTAMCC or Voc.                      TAMCC Tech/          GCE
H  L j                         ~~~~~~~Trg Cerkte.             Acdmi                A
Skills Training Ctr.                                                TAMCC Teacher
Education
UWI Schoo Of
Labor Market                                  Continuing Studics
PrinmryCycle                                                            Secdmy Cycle                                        Tertiuy Cycle
Age: 5-11                                                                Agc: 12-16                                          Age: 17+
52



Chart 2                 Annex 2
Qumkaf FdsIIg Oipuium of Mstry of Edh,cakm
-   Pnmuwi Secrtay
cmO                            Pith Ibiby                     Senkw A&sistant Soeitay     Gauada Naknal comuision for UNESMI
SEO                                                             Aissmia Seactiuy            Lsaf of 3
Rbihcy and MmZi~                                                       Ady*iWionid
Testi% and                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Evzeivuie Ofliker
Staff of 4
E g at          M      e fELia 1, n"
Exm*n&m OffcmSafo 
c Officer
r  Offcr                  -       ,
&L    Staff                                                   Sm orA    ecinvecer
Staff of 13
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LLi 1oiq ard Pl          _, Abii                   st
Stfhofi                                                        StaffOf9
_rw Avoidlave Office           A Eis     w oclietf
LPfioxiju arn Teadmns
.s                                                  L(le*k ii
O fficldurn                                                           Staff of 5
CxrkiAtum Dvdopmmt Office
Staff of 4
La"= ad QRNEUYJhW
Staff of 2
53



Annex 3
Chart 1
Grenada - Proposed Organigramme for the Ministry of Education
MINISTER 
[  emnent Secretary|
Grenada National   |         CEO                Financiai Analyst                             SAS
Commission for UNESCO                             lntemal auditor
Staff of 3-2
PEO                                    PEO                              PEo                        Administrative Unit
L  Planning and Dev.  |            |        Schools       |          L  TechnicTl Services  (         L      Staff of 9
ProjecteManagementnUng    t SEO                         SEO                            anSEO  2                  SAS
Staff of 12   ||Secondary Schools  ||        Pfimary Schools      Cucuu  Dev Utafo   (CD          Executive OMfcer
j-Typist~~~~~~~yps
- Project Manager              |                                          CurricukirnSpecialists        Persotnfnel Unit
- Procurement Officer                     TO ypist                                                        Safo 
- Accounting Officer                    Staffof ISEr
- Maintenance Of ficer                  STcybis                     _  E      Oc.Me OetrS
SecretCry              A                            - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(saEditr   (ithl SEOIMU)o
-SEdupportinlbngU|-ahnOetrI4 Staff                                                                            of 8
Plrniver  Oies-2                                                     E.Tstaff of 7xm                 Sr.| Executive Officer
ClrkSaitclofcr-                                                                                       Typist
Secreitar                                                               - EdTorst2ingOfcr(2cl. SEO) |NainlDu   vdnc
Educationai Planning Uni                               ~~~~~~- Testoing Assistants (2)  FominanScretaa
Staff of 5                                        ~~~~- Exacms  Opertor I           Stf o
- Typist                    LSafo 
-Statistical Officers -2                                   Staff of 9                Clerks Cler
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TypitvTpis
-TesthinegOffIersator.EO  N=inlrAodn
-(ExamsdUrit EMU
54



Annex 3
Table 1
GRENADA: BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Distribution of Recurrent Expenditures
(1995 Estimates)
Teaching          Non       Travel      Supplies Maintenance          Grants &            Total         % of Total
Staff (Nos.)    Teaching    Office &                                       Other
Staff    General
Pre Primary      1,488,557        48,616           -                          -                -        1,537,173                4.6
(159)
Primary         13,366,158 2    418,952            -       449,450      356,018 Y        586,216       15,176,794               45.9
(838)          (50)
Special            309,888             -           -  (included in            -                 -         309,888                0.9
Education             (18)                               above)
Secondary        6,712,032 X    556,349               (included in            -          442,944        7,711,325               23.3
(62)                above)
Skills             237,792                            (included in                                        237,792                0.7
Training              (13)                               above)
Tertiary                                                                                                4,475,889  i            13.6
Admin. &                        1,840,522   1,597,427                                    105,000 i      3,542,949               10.6
Central
Non                                                                                                       140,000 f
Categorized
Sub Total   22,144,427     2,864,439   1,597,427       449,450      356,018         1,134,160      33,131,810              100.0
Library                                                                                                   471,58S
Information                                                                                               194,300
TOTAL        33,797,698
Source: Government's Estimates of Revenues and Expenditures, 1995.
I/ Includes approximately 6.7% of total for relief teachers
2'Includes SI 00,000 for part time workers on maintenance
Includes approximately 5.4% of total fbr relief teachers
Includes TAMCC, Grant to UWI and UWI Extra Mural, Island Scholarships
Honoraria for examination invigilators
6/No purpose indicated in the Estimates for this sum.
55



Annex 3
Table 2
GRENADA: BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Capital Expenditure Estimates for Education (in EC$)
Sub-Sector                            1992 (a)*    1993 (b)*    1994 (a)      1995 (b)
Pre-School                              28,590        17,500    259,645       300,000
Primary                               1,250,000    2,351,410    1,559,447    5,131,953
Secondary                                   ---          ---    262,467       347,000
Technical/                             370,540        38,800     131,000       18,000
Vocational
Tertiary (TAMCC)                            ---    2,408,510         ---          ---
Administration                              ---       36,000
Sector Total                          1,659,130    5,009,720    2,934,942   6,309,627
Total National Capital Budget        25,129,790    69,947,518        ---   95,269,344
Sector Total as % of National Total        6.6           7.2         ---          6.6
*(a) Actual Provisional; (b) Estimates
56



Proposed Sector Budget Adjustment Annex 3, Appendix
GRENADA:
PROPOSED BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
WORKING PAPER--REALLOCATION OF SECTOR BUDGETARY PROVISIONS
1.     In the education sector in Grenada, there are two overriding efficiency issues-one concerning the
efficiency of management and the other the efficiency of the schools:
(a)    the absence of sufficient specialized management staff to lead and guide the schools and
(b)    the low share of school budgets spent on non-salary items.
The management deficiency is masked by persistent, hard work of a few, but a broader and better staffed
effort is needed to sustain reform and, ironically, to keep costs within reasonable bounds. Low non-salary
expenditure seriously affects teacher morale and student performance.
2.     The Governments financial effort on behalf of education falls within the lower end of a reasonable
range (1 5%--25%) of the national recurrent budget; the sector share is budgeted to be 16.6% in 1995 and
will probably rise slightly over the medium term. In the current fiscal situation, the immediate solution to
financial deficiencies in education seems to lie in an intra-sectoral reallocation of the sector budget rather
than in an increase in the sector share of the national budget.
3.     This Working Paper examines how resources might be found within the existing budget, to
strengthen sector management and more effectively furnish the schools with the furniture, equipment,
materials and supplies as well as the maintenance services that are essential to good teaching.
4.     Adjustment of Teacherstudent Ratios. There is a widespread tendency to equate high teacher to
student ratios with high quality in education, although research has shown that teacher: student ratios, except
at the extremes, bear little relationship to student performance. Examples, in Grenada and elsewhere, show
that the "best" public schools do not generally have the highest ratios; but they are the best managed.
5.     The current teacher to student ratios in Grenada are far more generous than those in other countries
in similar, worse or better economic circumstances' and the Grenada ratios are likely to increase if left
'Dat from a sample of counsies according to the UNESCO Statisdcal Yearbook 1993:
Country           Per Capita GNP (USS) 1992 (World    Primary Students Per Teacher  Secondary Sbtdents Per Teacher
Bank Data]
Year        No.          Year            No.
Cameroon                                820          1990          51         1989              32
Gabon                                   4450         1991          44         1991              32
Zimbabwe                                520          1992          38         1990              27
Jamaica                                 1340         1990          37         1985              31
Trinidad & Tobago                       3940         1990          26         1990              20
Koma                                    6790         1992          33         1992              24
Philippines                             770          1991          33         1991              32
Grenada(MOE data)                      2321          1994          27         1994              19
57



Proposed Sector Budget Adjustment Annex 3, Appendix
alone. Furthermore, there appear to be no firn standards--ratios are not now uniform within the school
system. The current actual average ratios nation-wide are 1:26.8 at primary level and 1:19.3 at secondary.
However, the breakdown by school in 1994 shows that the range in the primary schools was between 1:8
and 1:34 and, in the secondary schools, between 1:12.3 and 1:24.42
6.      It therefore appears necessary for the Ministry to establish realistic standards and then apply them
judiciousiv. These standards should be flexible, taking into account the special circumstances of small
schools which, even with multi-grade teaching, clustering and so on, will need higher ratios than large
schools. A national average ratio of 1:30 at primary level and 1:25 at secondary (1:20 if 6th forms are
involved) is not unreasonable as a medium term goal, with a longer term (say 10 year) objective of 1:35 and
1:25 respectively. A ratio of 1:30 overall will still enable the small schools to be taken care of.3
7.      Decisions on staff:student ratios and the organization of schools and curricula are only part of a
complex of decisions on delivering educational services, all of which have important financial implications
when applied system-wide. This complex needs to be carefully thought out and based on policies and
standards arrived at carefully and in full awareness of the financial-cum-educational implications. The
system-wide financial impact of even small changes in ratios is considerable. Schools should therefore be
(a) guided on their staffing needs in view of the limited resources available, (b) helped to use staff
efficiently and (c) advised on economic altematives in organizing curricula and time-tables. For this crucial
leadership role, the Ministry needs more trained, senior staff.
2These are very wide ranges and there is no clear explanation for them. Among the 59 primary schools in March 1994, while the average
was 1:26.8, on the high side there were schools with 1:8, 1:14, and 1:17 and, on the low side, nine schools with 1:30 or less (i.e. I to 31 and
32); at the secondary level, there were schools with 12.3, 12.4, 12.7 and 14.5 students per teacher on the one hand and others with 22.5,
23.0, 23.4, 23.8, and 24.4 students per tacher. Thus, the data at both levels showed ratios about twice as high in the most generously
staffed school as in the least generously staffed.
3E.g., for an average nation-wide ratio of 1:31, actual ratios by primary school might be as follows:
Enrollment   Standard Ratio               Impact as applied to existing system:
Schools            Enrollment   Req'd teachers
>90         1:20                                2                   III               6
90-120       1:22                               2                   198              9
121-179     1:24                                5                   693             29
180-256     1:27                                7                  1510             56
257-344      1:30                               9                  2752              92
345-495      1:32                              24                  7194             224
496+         1:33                              10                 10554             319
Total        1:31.3                            59                 23012             735
For further reductions, the larger schools can move down to 1:35.
58



Proposed Sector Budget Adjustment Annex 3, Appendix
8.      The 1995 budget for salaries constitutes 95.6% of the total Primary sub-sector allocation4 and 95%
of the Government Secondary School budget. Thus, the availability of funds for other urgent needs of the
schools--supplies, materials, repairs of physical plant, testing, supervision, training etc.--to provide the
environment in which principals, teachers and students can perform at an optimal level is seriously
circumscribed. Shifting funds from salaries to these other school purposes would bring a balanced and
more productive mix of resources to bear on teaching.
9.      No drastic measures would be needed in order to achieve that adjustment. A phased reduction in
ratios would obviate the need to retrench teachers, but it would reduce sharply the recruitrnent of new ones
over the next few years, unless a major migration of teachers into new openings in the private sector occurs
to lift attrition rates above the normal three percent. This slowdown in recruitment will provide an
opportunity for consolidation--to improve the average qualifications of serving teachers and to build higher
standards of performance. It is important to begin this slowdown in recruitment immediately because the
primary enrollment is in the process of slow decline which will continue for the next few years.
10.     TABLE I sets out the implications of such phasing.
TABLE 1.   ADJUSTMENT OF TEACHERSTUDENT RATIOS
Part 1. The Demand for Teachers
Year       Primary Enrollment   Students per   Teachers Needed     Normal 3%           Transfers (to      New
Teacher        & in place         Attrition   secondary & admin.)    recruits
1993-4     23027 (actual)             26.8               861               25                   -            1
1995-6     22600 (projected)          27.0               837               25                    6           4
1996       22200                      27.4               810               24                    6           7
1997       21800                      27.7               787               24                    6           2
1998       21400                      28.2               759               24                    6           2
1999       21000                      28.7               731               22                    4           5
2000       20600                      29.0               710               22                    1           -
Secondary                                                                      Transfers
Enrollment                                                                    to Admin.
1994-5     7205 (actual)              19.3               373               11                   -            9
1995-6     7300 (projected)            19.7              371               11                    8          11
1996       7400                       20.4               363               11                    6          16
1997       7750                       21.4               362               11                    2          12
1998       7900                       21.9              361                11                    1           5
1999       7990                       22.6              354                11                    1           3
2000       8100                       23.5               345               11                    I           -
'There is an additional 1.66% for school feeding and 2.7% for supplies; it is to be determined what is covered under 'supplies' and to which
schools (secondary? special? practical centres? preprimary? primary?) this applies.
59



Proposed Sector Budget Adjustment Annex 3, Appendix
Table I Part 2. Annual Savings at constant 1995 EC dollars
Total Salaries    No. of  Average per     Staff and salaries at   Staff and salaries at   Net Saving
1995 Estimates5   Teachers      teacher    current ratios in 2000    adjusted ratios in
in                                           2000
Estimates6
No.      Salaries    No.      Salaries
Prim=ar          12,471,414        838        14,882     769    11,444,258    710   10,556,220     878,038
Secondary         6,337,488        368        17,221     420     7,232,820    345    5,951,245    1.291,575
TOTAL            18,808,902       1206        15,598    1189    18,677,078    1061   16,610,791    2,169,613
Table I Part 3. Growth of Annual Savings Over the Period 1995-2001
Year                   Salary Costs by Cuffent      Salary Costs by Revised                  Net Saving
Standards                    Standards
Primary     Secondary        Primary      Secondary
1996                  12,322,296      6,595,643     12,054,420      6,251,223                   612,296
1997                  12,099,066      6,905,621     11,712,134      6,234,002                 1,058,551
1998                  11,890,718      7,043,389     11,295,438      6,216,781                 1,421,888
1999                  11,652,606      7,129,494     10,878,742      6,096,234                 1,807,124
2000                   11,444,258     7,232,820     10,566,220      5,941,245                 2,169,613
11.    As Table I indicates, such an adjustment can yield, by 2000-0 1, some EC$2.17m. in "savings"
that could be used to:
(a)     strengthen sector management; and
(b)     improve direct support to the schools in terms of furniture, equipment, materials and
supplies and maintenance of physical plant.
The essential corollary of such saving would be guarantees of equivalent transfers into the school system
in these productive elements of the system. Without such parallel measures, educational standards will
decline even further and the frustration levels among the teachers will rise.
Strengthening Sector Management.
12.    Although Grenada is a small country, it does need a range of services to conduct a viable
education system; with careful use of staff, it can afford that range. The additional staff required at Head
Office to strengthen and improve operations and of estimate of cost are listed in the TABLE.
5These estimates were calculated on the basis of the April 1995 salaries. No adjustment is made to bring the
figures in tune with the May 1995 regrading of pay scales. The effect of retaining the pre-regrading salaries is,
however, negligible in terms of the calculation of impact. Once the overall financial change generated by the
regrading has been determined, it should be a simple matter of making the required percentage change in the
figures.
6   Althought the number of teachers in the Estimates differs from MOE's official data, the average teacher salary
is a good approximnation of what actually a teacher is paid on an annual basis.
60



Proposed Sector Budget Adjustment Annex 3, Appendix
TABLE 2.   NEW UNITS, STAFF AND COSTS (In EC$OOOS)
OFFICE/POST                             Saiary   Travel    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99   FY2000
ECS000s   Off. +
Gen.
CEO*
PEO (3) (Schools; Tech.Services;           28      12.5       40      80    121.5    121.5       121.5
Planning & Development)
SEO Primary (one exists)                 26.5      12.5       20      39       39        39        39
SEO Secondary (one additional)
SEO Planning (EPU)*                      26.5      12.5
Statistician (EPU)*                      26.5      12.5
Statistical Assistant                    22.5      8.5        25      31       31        31        31
Planning Assistant*
Project Manager (PMU)                      28      14.5     40.0    42.5      42.5     42.5       42.5
Procurement Off. (PMU)                     26      12.5       38     38.5     38.5     38.5      38.5
Project Accountant (PMU)                   26      12.5       38     38.5     38.5     38.5       38.5
Coordinator School Maintenance*
Maintenance Officers (2)                   18      12.5       15      61        61       61        61
SEO Testing (ETX)                        26.5      12.5       15      30        39       39        39
Testing Officer (ETX)*                     25      12.5       -        -        -         -         -
Testing Assistants (2) (ETX)             22.5        8        -       22        55       61        61
Examinations Officer*
Asst. Examinations Officer*
MachineOperator(ETXandEMU)                 10       16        -        13       26       26        26
SEO Educ.Materials (EMU)                 26.5      12.5       -       20        39       39        39
Other Editor (EMU)                       26.5      12.5       -        15     38.5     38.5       38.5
Editorial Assistants (EMU) (2)           22.5      12.5       -        10       60       60        70
Graphic Artist (EMU)                      I18        8        -        10      26        26        26
Financial Analyst (Admin.)                 26       9.0       -       20        35       35        35
Senior Clerks (Admin.) (2)                 19        5        12      48        48       48        48
SEO Curriculum (CDU)*
Curriculum Officers (CDU)                  25      12.5       -       40       75        75        75
(2 additional)
Typists (5) (various units)                15        5        40      60        80      /00       /00
Clerks (3 ) (Various units)                1]        4        14      30       45        45        45
Chauffeurs (2)                             10        8        20      36        36       36        36
TOTAL                                                        317    694.5    974.5   1000.5    1010.5
*Position exists
13.     The preliminary estimate7 of recurrent cost is EC$ 1.01 million (US$374,300). This would provide
about 35 more positions, the exact number depending on identifying overlaps with existing staffing and
rationalizing posts. At least 19 of the technical positions can be filled by persons drawn from the teaching
service, either to fill a new post or to replace a person promoted to a new post, thus opening up a career to
them. This expenditure will help eliminate waste and promote efficiency through (i) improved supervision
and control and (ii) readier design of appropriate policies to deal with emerging situations. It will
simultaneously build the infrastructure for sustained sector reform and development. The work of these
units would be supported by improved and modernized equipping of offices and personnel training. These
measures should raise the productivity of the management as well as the level of efficiency in the schools.
7To be finalized in the light of existing staff numbers in each category.
61



Proposed Sector Budget Adjustment  Annex 3, Appendix
Improving Direct Support to the Schools.
14.    TABLE 3 sets out the increased amounts required in the recurrent budgets for non-salary purposes
at primary and secondary levels (para. 6) and a possible phasing in of these changes
TABLE 3    ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR DIRECT SCHOOL SUPPORT:
SUPPLIES & MATERIALS AND OPERATIONS & MAINTENANCE
Year        Supplies & Materials                    Operations & Maintenance                Total
Primary           Secondary            Prinmary           Secondary
Amount ECSOOO       Amount ECSOOO      Amount ECS000s      Amount ECSOOOs
1996*                      -0-                 -0-                 -0-                 -0-        -0-
1997*                      -O-                 4                   4                   4          4.
1998*                      50                  -0-                 40                  4          40
1999                      150                   70                150                  50        420
2000                      370                  180                150                 200         900
2001                      460                  240                200                 300        1200
* In these years, investment in supplies and maintenance will be coming from the project and the Ministry's regular budget.
(see Table 4)
15.    The current per student allocations would be raised. This would be done gradually in order to
permit management capacity and institutional procedures to be built up in procuring and managing the
goods and services to be provided. The project would assist in this capacity building by absorbing of the
existing Stores and Supplies and the Maintenance Units into the PMU where they would be better supported
professionally, and better equipped to undertake sector-wide procurement of furniture, equipment, materials
and supplies and the maintenance of buildings and equipment. The adjustment being proposed here would
assure them of regular recurrent funding.
16.    The funding in 1993-94 was, and by the year 2000 is projected to be, as follows:
Table 3/B
Year               Primary Level (in ECS)                         Secondary Level (in ECS)
Supplies Materials   Operations M'tenance      Supplies Materials    Operations/ Mtenance
Per student           Per student              Per student             Per student
1993           13                    12                       15                      -0-
1994           1 5                    12                      16                      -0-
2000           34                     21                      37                      25
This will permit the schools to have a basic supply of equipment, materials and apparatus and a limited
number of books.
62



Proposed Sector Budget Adjustment   Annex 3, Appendix
Reallocation of Savings.
17.     The reallocation of annual savings (TABLE 4) will not only meet the needs indicated in regard to
management strengthening and school supplies; it will leave modest sumns for in-service training and
upgrading of teachers and other activities tending toward improved quality of teaching (Annex 6, the
Appendix).
TABLE 4    REALLOCATION OF SAVINGS (in EC$000s)
Year         Additional Allocations                                                           Savings            Amount of
Available from    Savings in excess
adjustment of     of Allocations
ratios_d/
To Management            To Supplies &     To Operations &          Total
Strengthening_a/           Materials_b/    Maintenance c/
1996                         317                   (381)               (316)            317               612                 295
1997                         695                   (308)               (583)            695               1,59                354
1998                         975                   (157)            40 (597)           1,013             1,422                409
1999                        1,011                    220           200 (613)           1,421             1,807                386
2000                        1,011                    550           350 {630}           1,911             2,170                259
2001                        1,011                    700                 500           2,201             2,472                271
_a/See TABLE 2 for details.
b/ Amounts shown here are additional to the 1994 provision which was $456,272 for Supplies & Materials. The project capital investments for
school rehabilitation are shown in {}.
_c/ Amounts shown here are additional to the 1994 provision which was S283,817 for Maintenance & Repair.
_d/ See Table I Part 3 for details.
18.     The adjustment will have an important impact both on the MOE and national recurrent budgets
and on the overall public service establishment. Table 5 presents the projected evolution of the sector
budget; this will need to be refined in the light of (a) some rationalizing of existing posts and duties and
(b) the proposed long range plan that will be prepared under the project. Under this set of projections,
with modest annual growth rates in some sub-sectors--skills training (10%), tertiary (2%) and Pre-
Primary and Special Education (5%)--the overall growth of the sector can be accommodated within
about 16-17% of the national recurrent budget, assuming that the latter grows at about 2% per annum.
The sector share would decline from  16.6%  in 1995 to 16.1%  in 2000.8
5These projections accept much of the status quo in the system. This should not be taken to mean that all of this is endorsed. For
example, the proposed secondary school study that will be undertaken in September-October of 1995 will doubtless result in
recommendations touching the budget for the sub-sector.
63



Proposed Sector Budget Adjustment Annex 3, Appendix
TABLE 5   PROJECTED EVOLUTION OF MOE RECUERRNT BUDGET
1995-2000 (in EC$000s)
1995 (actual       1996         1997          1998         1999          2000  Sub-Sector %
Estimates)                                                                         of Total
Year 2000
Pre-Primary            1,537         1,614       1,695         1,780         1,869         1,962           5.6
Primary Teacher       12.471        12.322      12.099        11,891        11,652        11,444          32.4
Salaries V
Primary Other          2,706         2,841       2,983         3,192         3,320         3,511           9.9
Costs
Secondary              6,377        6,251,       6,234         6,216         6,096         6,045          17.1
Teacher Salaries
Secondary Other        1,374         1,443       1,501         1,651        11,816         1,906            5.4
Costs
Special                  310          326          342           359          377            396            1.1
Education
SkillsTrg                238          262          288           317           348           382            1.1
Tertiary               4,476         4,566       4,657         4,750         4,845         4,942           14.0
Admin. &               3.683         4,001      4,3790         4,690         4,730         4,730           13.4
Central1
TOTAL"                33,132        33,626      34,189        34,846        35,053        35,318           100
(%of National)         (16.6)        (16.6)      (16.5)        (16.5)        (16.3)        (16.1)
National             199,084       203,065     207,126       211,269       215,494       219,804
Recurrent
Budget
Source:  1995 figures calculated from data in Grenada - Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure for the Year 1995. Grenada
Govemment Printer 1995.
Excludes temporary teachers; these are placed in the category "Other". The same is true for Secondary Teacher salaries.
These projections are taken from Table I Part 3.
Based on Table 2 da.
V       Recurrent MOE Budget excluding Library and Information
19.    The adjustment will increase the posts at the Head Office of MOE, subject to the refining of the
structure and procedures that is expected to be completed under the proposed project. However, it would
reduce, rather than increase, the number of public service posts generally. The total number of posts
directly affected by the adjustment would be as shown in Table 6.
64



Proposed Sector Budget Adjustment Annex 3, Appendix
TABLE 6:        NO. OF POSTS IN MOE - TRENDS 1995-2000
Administration         Teachers in     Teachers in    Non Teaching         Total
Primary      Secondary  Staff in Primary
Schools        Schools   and Secondary
Schools
1995                      93  "               837            371             112           1,413
1996                     110                  810            363             114           1,397
1997                     123                  787            362             115           1,386
1998                     124                  759            361             115           1,359
1999                     124                  731            354             115           1,324
2000                     124                  710             345            115            1,300
Change                    31                 (127             (26              3            (119
1995-2000
IL This total includes 11 persons skilled in construction trades who work full time in the schools maintenance Unit
who should be phased out or transferred to Ministry of Works leaving MOE to contract for these services where they
are needed. For the purposes of this table, however, these posts are retained.
Minor increases in posts should occur in the pre primary, skills training, tertiary and special education.
20.    Despite the increase in the number of central administration positions, the overall sector
establishment would decline by some 111 positions over the five year period. This decline would
produce benefits in the labor market, since it releases funds for improved supplies of educational
materials to schools and maintenance services that will stimulate activity in the construction industry, the
book trade and other distributive trades; however, these additional employment opportunities cannot be
quantified at this stage.
21.    The adjustment program would therefore produce the following important benefits:
(a)     it will provide for better planning and for more efficient management and accountability
of a sector that absorbs an appreciable share of the national budget;
(b)     while maintaining teacher to student ratios at a reasonable and affordable level, it would
lead to a more productive use of available resources through improved provision of
educational materials, regular maintenance of school facilities and enhanced training,
supervision and technical support of teachers in curricula, testing and materials; it would
also rationalize the teacher to students ratios across schools and eliminate inequities;
(c)     the overall burden of the sector on the national budget would be maintained at its current
level or slightly reduced, and
(d)     it would be in line with the Government's effort to reduce the public personnel
establishment and stimulate private sector development and job creation.
65



Project Preparatory Studies Annex 4
GRENADA: BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
PROJECT PREPARATORY STUDIES
Area of Study                 Responsibility                Status
Teacher Training              UNESCO staff member (Dr.      Draft report completed.
Winsome Gordon)
School Location Planning      Consultants (Messrs. Rene     Draft report completed
Corradine and Marcellus
Albertin)
Inventory of School buildings    Architectural Firm (Watkins,    On-going
Phillips, Bynoe and Partners)
Prototype designs for schools    Firm as above              On-going
Sketch designs for all project  Firm as above               On-going; all sites identified and found
construction                                                suitable.
Secondary School Organization   Messrs. Layne and Ariasingam    Conducted in November 1995
and Management
66



Schedule of Accommodation (MOE) Annex 5
GRENADA: BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Table 1
SCHEDULES OF ACCOMMODATION FOR PROPOSED NEW CONSTRUCTION
MOE HEAD OFFICE (areas in sq.ft)
Nov 6, 1995
UNIT                                  Office                                                       Proposed Area
Senior Management                     Minister                                                              280
Minister's Advisory Staff                                             180
Penn. Secretary                                                       160
Chief Education Officer (CEO)                                         140
PEO (P&D)                                                             100
PEO (Schools)                                                         100
PEO (Technical Services)                                              100
4 Secretaries & Waiting Area                                          350
Financial Analyst                                                      80
National Commission for UNESCO-Secy-Gen                                90
Exec. Asst.                                                            60
Secretary                                                              50
Documentation Center                                                  400
Subtotal                                                             1,690
Administrauve Staff                   Sr. Asst. Secretary                                                     80
Asst. Secretary (3)                                                   240
Sr. Exec. Officer                                                      80
Exec. Officer (2)                                                      140
Support staff (Clerks/Typists etc.) (19)                             1,100
Filing Space                                                          100
Drug Avoidance Unit (90 Officer + 50 Sec.)                            140
Subtotal                                                             1,880
Educ. Planning Unit                   Planning Officer (SEO)                                                  90
Statistician                                                           90
Planning & Statistics Assts. (2)                                      140
Typist & Filing                                                        80
Subtotal                                                              400
67



Schedule of Accommodation (MOE) Annex 5
UNIT                                 Office                                                      Proposed Ar
Proiect Magenmw Unit                 Promect Manger                                                         90
Accouna                                                               80
Procurement Officer                                                   80
Buildings Officer                                                     80
Prourment & Accounting Asst. (2)                                     120
Mainenance Supervisors (2)                                           120
Typist & Waiting Area                                                  0
Storeroom                                                            600
Subtotal                                                           1,250
Testing & Exams                      Testing Officers O2) (incl. SEO)                                      180
Testing Asst.                                                         70
Machine Room & Operutor                                              200
Vault                                                                240
Clerk/typist                                                          so
Examinations Section                                                 260
Subtotal                                                           1,000
Crriclum Developmet                  SEO Curriculum                                                         90
Curriculum Supervisors (9)                                           720
Clerk/Typist                                                          so
Curriculum Asst.                                                      70
Subtotal                                                             930
Reading MaeTrials                    Editors (2) (incl SEO)                                                180
Art Ed. Asst (Graphic Artist)                                         s0
Two Editorial Assistns                                               140
Production Area & Mahine Operator                                    240
Typist                                                                50
Carrels for pan-time Writers                                         100
Subtotal                                                             7
Scbool Supervision                   SEO Primary & SEO Secondary                                           180
Educ Officers & Asst. EOs (14)                                     1,120
Early Childhood Unit                                                 480
Scuetay & Waiting                                                     80
Subtotal                                                           1,S60
Commua                               Ablution                                                              440
Canteen (modest food prepartion hcilities; space                     620
adaptable for meetings outside lunch hour)
68



Schedule of Accommodatdon (MOE) Annex 5
uNrr                            Office                                                        PmAea
Mceung Room (500. 200)                                      7
Guage Space (Open Covered)                                 2,000
Subtoa                                                     3,760
SUBTaTAL                                                                                   13,50
Wal & Circiona  25%                                                                        3,390
TOTAL B   Arm                                                                             1i6,0
69



Schedule of Accommodation for School Construction Annex 5, Appendix
GRENADA: BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
SCHEDULES OF ACCOMMODATION FOR SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION
1.    NEW SECONDARY SCHOOL ---Westerhall (525 places)
Assumptions: General secondary school, co-educational (curriculum as indicated in Tables
below). Total of places--525 places (3 streams--15 classes (35 each).
SPACE REQUIREMENTS (in sq.ft.)                                        20,900
(a)    Administrative:                                                  1,300
(Principal 120; Staff (21) 480; Stores 100;
Ablution 220; Bursar/Secretary 240; Rest area ("sick bay") 140.
(b)    Teachiny:                                                       12,535
Classrooms--15 @ 525 =7,875; Home Economics 1,000; Science
1,660 (Chem/Physics 720, Biology/Agriculture 720, Prep, 220);
Industrial Arts, 1000; Agriculture shed, 400;
(c)    Communal:                                                        2,060
(Ablution 900; Canteen 400; Library 760)
Sub-total                                                15,895
(d)    Walls & Circulation at 25%                                       3,974
(e)    Open Covered area                                                1,000
TOTAL                                                                  20,869
70



Schedule of Accommodation for School Construction Annex S, Appendix
Table 1.    WORKSHEET: SCHEDULE OF ACCOMMODATION
PERIODS BY SUBJECT
Westerhall Secondary School (35 periods/week, 45 mins. each; 525 students; 15 forms)
Subjects        Fonn I       Form 2        Fonn 3         Form 4         Forn 5      Weekly       Period Distribution
Periods
Req'd
(a)  (b)    (a)  (b)       (a)    (b)     (a)   (b)      (a)   (b)               Class   Lab    Prac.
rooms           Room
Eng. Lang.       5   15        5    15       5     15       5    15       5    15         75       75
Eng Lit.         2    6        2     6       2      6       5     5       5      5        28       28
Mathematics      6    18       5   15        5     15       5    15       5    15         78       78
Geography                                                   5     5       5      5        10        10
History                                                     5     5       5      5        10        10
Soc. Studies     5   15        5   15        5     15       5    10       5    10         65       65
Physics                                                     5     5       5      5        10               10
Chemisuy                                                    5     5       5      5        10               10
Biology                                                     5     5       5      5        10               10
Int. Sci.'       5   15        5    15       5     15       5     5       5      5        55        15     30       10
Phys. Educ.      3    9        2     6       2      6       -     -              -        21                       21
FamilyLife       1    3        1    3        1      3                                      9         9
Music            2    6        3    9        2      6                                     21       21
Home Econ.       2    6        2    6        2      6       -     -       -      -        18         5              13
Food/Nutrit.                                                5     5       5      5        10                        10
Cloth./Text.                                                5     5       5      5        10                        10
Spanish          2    2        2    2        3      3       5     5       5      5        17        17
French           2    4        3    6        3      6       5    10       5    10         36       36
Ind. Arts        2    6       2    6        2       6                                     18                       18
Tech. Draw
Bldg Tech.                                                  5     5       5      5        10                        10
Total Periods    35           35            35             70            70              521      369      60      92
Spaces Required                                                                                     15      2       4
Use factor at 35 periods per week.                                                               70 %    86%   below
Note (a) = no. of periods; Note (b) = no. of classes x no. of periods.
Specialist Teaching Spaces               Periods          Use Factor
Science labs--Chem/Phys; Biol/Agric.      60              86%
(a) Home Ec. 1; (b) Ind. Arts 1.         (a) 33 (b) 28    (a) 94% (b) 80%
Covered Area (Phys. Ed.)                   18             51%
Agricultural Plot & Shed                   10             29%
'.Includes Agriculture in Forms 1-3.
71



Schedule of Accommodation for School Construction Annex 5, Appendix
Table 2. WORKSHEET FOR DETERMINING TEACHER NEEDS
Total                     Distribution of Periods by teacher specialization
Subject        Periods
English   Maths  Music    Sci.  Home   French          Ind.     Soc.      Phys
Ec.              Arts  Studies       Ed.
Eng. Lang           75         75
Eng. Lit.           28        28
Maths               78                  78
Chemistry           10                                   10
Physics             10                                  10
Biology             10                                   10
Int. Sci.           55                                  54                          1
History             10                                                                      10
Geography           10                                                                       10
Soc. Studies        65                                                                      65
French              36                                                    36
Spanish             17                                                    17
Family Life          9                           3                6
Phys. Ed.           21                                                                                 21
Music               21                          21
Home Ec.            18                                           18
Food/Nutrit         10                                           10
Cloth/Tex.          10                                           10
Ind. Arts           18                                                             18
Bldg tech.          10                                                             10
Total              521        103       78      24      84       44       53       29       85         21
Teachers           21           4        3       1        3       2        2        1        3          1
Required
Average                        26       26      24      28      24        27       29       28        21
Teacher
Load
2Includes one for library and Remedial Reading. Bearing in mind current practice and the desired goals in regard to
teacher to student ratios, the school should be allowed approximately the following staff as the intake grows:
Year I--8 teachers (105 students); Year 2-- 13 teachers (210 students); Year 3-- 17 teachers (315 students);
Year 4--21 teachers (420 students) and Year 5-21 teachers (525 students). If more students for example
CXC repeaters from other schools are admitted in the early years (recognizing that the whole school has
been constructed by 1997), additional staff should be employed; however, in order to avoid retrenchment,
the ratio should not exceed I teacher to 25 students.
72



Schedule of Accommodation for School Construction Annex 5, Appendix
2.     EXPANSION OF SECONDARY SCHOOL--St Andrev/s Anglican
SPACE REQUIREMENTS OF EXTENSION3 (in sq.ft.)
(a)    Teaching:                                                                4,360
Typing Room, 700; Science Labs (2), 1660;
Industrial Arts, 1000; Home Economics, 1000;
(b)    Communal:                                                                3,000
Ablution--500; Library--720; Staff Room--720;
Admin--300; Tuckshop 760
Sub-total                                                                7,360
(c)    Walls & Circulation ( 25%                                                1,840
(d)    TOTAL                                                                    9,200
3.     PRIMARY SCHOOL-- St. John's R.C. (Assumed requirement-600 places; as per school
mapping study, no expansion is envisaged). Areas in sq.ft.:
Principal's Office & Waiting                                              100
Staff (20)                                                                400
Classrooms (20 @ 400)                                                    8,000
Ablution Area                                                             400
Library                                                                   480
Subtotal                                                         19,380
Walls & Circ. (25%)2,345
TOTAL                                                                   11,725
4.     PRIMARY SCHOOL-- St. Theresa's R.C. (Assumed requirement--245 places). Areas in sq.ft.:
Principal's Office                                                         80
Staff (7)                                                                 160
Classrooms (7 c 400)                                                    2,800
Ablution Area                                                             180
Library                                                                   340
Subtotal                                                         3,560
Walls & Circ. (25%)                                                       890
TOTAL                                                                   4,450
3.This is an extension by 140 places (4 classrooms). The four existing spaces being liberated by the provision of
new facilities are: (1) typing room, (2) staff room, (3) tuckshop, and (4) the administrationAlibrary area.
73



Project Cost Annex 6
Table IA
Grenada
Basic Eduication Project
Componns Project Cod Su qUMY
%     % Total
(EC$ '000)           (US$ '000)      Foreign    Base
Loca  ForcAp  Total  Local Forag  Totdal Excange   Costs
A. Stre#ghening M angemd and Planuing
Al. Senior Management                                522   1,671   2,193    193   619   812        76        9
A2. Planning and Developnient                        128    882   1,010    47   327   374          87        4
A3. ProjectManagement                                140    976   1,116    52   361   413          87        5
A4. Finonei Managennt                                28    153    181    10    57    67           84        1
Subtotal A. Stegthening Management and Plaing         817   3,681   4,498   303  1,363  1,666       82        19
B. Imnroving Eiucatonl Quality
BI. TeacherTraining                                  265   1,170   1,435    98   433   531         82        6
B2. School Supervision                               219    674    894    81   250   331           75        4
B3. Curriculum Development                           150    835    985    55   309   365           85        4
B4. Educational Materials                            162   1,300   1,462    60   482   542         89        6
B5. Testing and Measurement                          156    940   1,095    58   348   406          86        5
Subol B. Imwing E&afional Quality                      952   4,920   5,871   352  1,822  2,175       84       25
C. Expando an Rehabilitao of School Places
Cl. Primary Schools                                  912  2,365   3,277   338   876  1,214         72       14
C2. Secondary Schools                              1,826  5,116   6,942   676  1,895  2,571        74       30
C3. Primary and Secondary School Maintenance         701   1,794  2,495   260   664   924          72       11
Subtol C. Expasin and Rehlitatio of School Places   3,438   9,275  12,713  1,273  3,435  4,709      73        55
oal BASELINE COSS                                   5,207  17,876 23,083  1,928  6,621  8,549       77      100
Physical Contingencies                               647   1,750  2,397   239   648   888          73       10
Price Contingencies                                  302    935   1,237   120   371   491          76        6
otal PROJECT COSTS                                  6,155  20,562  26,717  2,288  7,640  9,928      77      116
74



Project Cost Annex 6
Table 1B
Gienada
Basic Education Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(ECS '000)                 (USS '000)          Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
Investment Costs
Civil Works
Construction of office Space                   895     2,087     2,982      331     773    1,104        70       13
Construction and Expansion of Schools        2,474     5,772     8,246      916   2,138    3,054        70       36
Renov./Repair of Schools                       661     1,542     2,203      245     571      816        70       10
Subtotal Civil Works                            4,029    9,402    13,431    1.492    3,482    4.974       70       58
Goods
Equipment and Furniture
Computers, Printers and Software              26       500       526       10     185      195        95        2
Other Equipment                               48       904       951       18     335      352        95        4
Vehicles                                      11       218       230        4      81       85        95        1
Furniture                                    186       414       601      69      153      222        69        3
Subtotal Equipment and Furniture               272     2,036     2,307      101     754      855        88       10
Books&Educat.Materials                          41       777       817       15     288      303        95        4
Supplies and Miscell.                           33       620       653       12     230      242        95        3
Subtotal Goods                                   345      3,432    3,777      128    1,271    1,399       91       16
Training                                         338       338       675      125      125     250        50        3
Technical Assistance
Works Design/Eng./SPN                          161     1,451     1,612       60     537      597        90        7
Experts                                           -    1,128     1,128        -     418      418       100        5
Fellowships                                     97     1,844     1,941       36     683      719        95        8
Subtotal Technical Assistance                    258     4,422     4,681       96    1,638    1,734       94       20
Studies                                          146       146       292       54       54     108        50        1
Total Investment Costs                            5,116    17,740    22,856    1,895    6,570   8,465       78       99
Recurrent Costs
Maintenance
Equipment                                       91       136       227       34       50      84        60        1
Total Recurrent Costs                                91       136      227       34       50       84        60        1
otal BASELINE COSTS                              5,207    17,876    23,083    1,928    6,621    8,549       77      100
Physical Contingencies                           647      1,750    2,397      239      648     888        73       10
Price Contingencies                              302       935     1,237      120      371     491        76        6
otal PROJECT COSTS                               6,155    20,562    26,717   2,288    7,640   9,928         77      116
75



Project Cost Annex 6
Table IC
Grenada
Basic Education Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Induding Contingencies
(USS '000)
Totals Induding Contingencies
1996    1997    1m       1999    2000    Total
A. Strengthening Management and Planning
Al. Senior Management                                               859      45        8       7        7     925
A2. Planning and Development                                        203     152       20       18      18     411
A3. Project Management                                              343      54       21       19      20     457
A4. Financial Management                                             34      24        7       5        5      74
Subtotal A. Strengthening Management and Planning                   1,439     274       55      49       50    1,867
B. Improving Educational Quality
Bl1. Teacher Training                                               137     113      149      114      79     593
B2. School Supervision                                              262      46       29       18      18      374
B3. Curriculum Development                                          206      120      52       14      14      405
B4. Educational Materials                                           322      148      73      27       28     597
B5. Testing and Measurement                                         282      69       58       19      19     447
Subtotal B. Improving Educational Quality                           1,210     497      361      191     158   2,416
C. Expansion and Rehabilitation of School Places
Cl. Primary Schools                                                   -     234      801     448        -   1,484
C2. Secondary Schools                                               445    1,808     753       12      12   3,030
C3. Primary and Secondary School Maintenance                        127     243      248     254      260   1,132
Subtotal C. Expansion and Rehabilitation of School Places             572   2,286    1,802     714      272   5,645
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                  3,220   3,057   2,218      953      480   9,928
76



Project Cost Annex 6
Table ID
Gmia
Basic F    iu P"ea
Expemllhe Armounts by Coupmneols - Totals lIudlog Condngmcs
(USS '000)
C. Expandon and
ltelaaldon of Scbod
A. Srasgtn  Manam nt ad PlnnIng                                                                                          C3. Prlury
A2.                                                     B. Impoving Edcational Qualty                                    and
planning        A3.           A4.        Rl.                     B3.          B4.      BS. Tedlng    Cl.        C2.     SCOnday
Al. Sesdor      and         Projet       Fncal   Te            B2. Sool  Caurlcumn  Educalonal           and      Prlnry Seodary    School
Managbnt D,vdopmneni   fanageint  Mansaea t _D Taining  Supervlo   Deveopuncst   Materials  Mena.ten  School   Schools  Maliseakne   Total
LaDetnni Ccua
Ckvl Works
Cansaucca of office Spee                        677            39            121            8        -          181          90           76            97            1-                 -    ,289
Canucti   and Expansia ofSchools                   -            -                                            -                              -            -   1,325      2,395                 3,719
Renov.1tepair of Schools                                                                                                                   -             -        -         -        1,014   1,014
suhloalCkvilWorks                                 677            39            121           8                    181          90           76            97    1,325     2,395        1,014   6,022
Gooda
Eq dpoeni and FVnir
Compers, Priniers and Softwe                   35            23             20           7        15            -           19          44            47        -         -            -     209
Okr Equipomcn                                  4             4             11           2        60           14            3          12            44       5        227                  385
Vehicles                                         -            -            64             -        -            -            -                        28        -         -            -      92
Fwumitme                                        9            25            10             I        -           15           13          15            12       16       128            -     244
ubdo4l EquIpmn anDd Furniue                      48            51            105           10       74           29           34          70           132      21        355            -     930
hooks&Educat.Materials                            5             6              5            -       19            7          99          186             6        -          -           -     331
Supplies ad MiCell.                              26            25             37           13       30           24           Is          68            34        -         -            -     273
SubtotalGoods                                      78            81            147           23      123           60          149         324           171      21        355            -   1,534
Trning                                               -           27              -           2       155           39           18          24            13                                     278
Tecbnald Asi_anc
Worku Dsign/Eng./SPN                             71             4             13            1        -           19           9            8            10     138        250          106     629
Expcis                                           65           109            127            -        -                         -          87            66       -          -            -     453
Fellowships                                      21           128            27           29       292           59         119           58            59       -          -            -     793
Subtotal TechnlcadiA                              157           241            166           30      292           78          128         153           135      138       250          106   1,876
Studies                                            I1            17             11           9        17           11           11          11            11        -         -           II     121
Toalnvesuaul Costs                                   923          405            445           72      587          370          396         589           429    1,484     2,999         1,132   9,832
Recurret CoUs
Maintnanm
EquipuEni                                         2             5             12           2         6            4           9            8            18        -        30            -      97
Tobl Rewrenat Cost                                     2            5             12            2        6            4            9           8            18        -        30            -      97
ToIa1PROJECTCOSTS                                    925          411            457           74       593          374         405          597           447    1.484     3,030        1,132   9,928
Taxes                                              68             4             12            1         -          18            9           8            10      132       239          101     602
Foreign Exchangec                                 701           358            398          62       484          281         342          530           383   1.067      2,223          811   7,640
77



Financing Plan          Annex 6
Table 2A
Gada
Basic Eduation Project
Componens by Fmanes
(US$)
IBRD/IIA       The Govenunent         Total                     Local (Exd. Duties &
Amount    %      Amount    %       Anm4olt    %    For. Exch.   Taxes)      Taxes
A. Sngthening _nageanmt and MPanning
Al. Senior Man t                                    703,360   76.0   221,705   24.0   925,065    9.3   701,343        155,987   67,735
A2. Planing and Developnrnt                         359,510   87.6    51,063   12.4   410,573    4.1    357,566        49,149    3,858
A3. Project Managenent                              395,775   86.6    61,320   13.4   457,094    4.6   397,893         47,150   12,051
A4. Financial nageamge                               62,213   84.0    11,836   16.0    74,048    0.7    62,396         10,881     772
SubtoaA.S gheuA MingManagementandPlanning            1,520,857   81.5   345,924   18.5  1,866,781   18.8  1,519,198     263,167   84,416
B. hmpoving F atioa  Quality
BI. Teacher Training                                 483,625   81.5    109,492   18.5   593,118    6.0   484,113      109,05         -
B2. School Supervision                              282,191   75.5    91,389   24.5   373,580    3.8   280,934         74,515   18,131
B3. CurriculumDevelopmte                             342,313   84.5    62,938   15.5   405,251    4.1    342,435       53,851    8,965
B4. E&umtional Materials                             534,543   89.5    62,584   10.5   597,127    6.0   529,590        59,914    7,623
BS. Testing and Measurenmn&                          377,439   84.4    69,778   15.6   447,217    4.5    382,536       54,949    9,731
Subtotal B. Improving Eduaonal Quality               2,020,110   83.6   396,181   16.4  2,416,292   24.3  2,019,608     352,234   44,450
C. Expamion and Raiitto of Sdhoxl Places
Cl. Primy Schools                                  1,069,713   72.1   413,821   27.9  1,483,535   14.9  1,067,102     283,970  132,463
C2. SeconAry Schols                                2,230,655   73.6   799,099   26.4  3,029,754   30.5  2,223,356     566,941  239,457
C3. PrinaryandSecydarSchool Mai   ance              811,217   71.7   320,599   28.3  1,131,815   11.4   811,217       219,149  101,450
Subtotal C. EqmimandRdeabilitationof School Placs    4,111,585   72.8  1,533,519   27.2  5,645,104   56.9  4,101,675   1,070,060  473,370
otal D Wbursement                                   7,652,553   77.1  2,275,624   22.9  9,928,177  100.0  7,640,481    1,685,462  602,235
78



Financing Plan         Annex 6
Table 2B
Grenada
Basic Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Finanders
(US$)
lBRD/IDA         The Government           Total                        Local (Exd.  Duties &
Amount             Amount              Amkount      %     For. Excb.    Taxes)      Taxes
Investment Casts
Civl Works
Construction of office Space                902,056    70.0    386,596    30.0   1,288,652    13.0    902,056       257,730   128,865
Construction and Expansion of Schools     2.603,438    70.0   1,115,759    30.0   3,719,197    37.5   2.603,438     743,839   371,920
Renov./Repair of Schools                    710,149    70.0    304,349    30.0   1,014.498    10.2    710,149       202,900   101,450
Subtotal Civil Works                        4,215,643    70.0   1,806,704    30.0   6,022,347    60.7   4,215,643    1,204,469   602,235
Goods
Equipment and Furniture
Computers, Printers and Software          203,619    97.5      5,221     2.5     208,840     2.1     198,398        10,442        -
Odter Equipment                           375,385    97.5      9,625     2.5     385,011     3.9     365.760        19,251        -
Vehicles                                   89,483    97.5      2,294     2.5      91,778     0.9      87,189        4,589         -
Furniture                                 206,127    84.5     37,810    15.5     243,937     2.5      168,317      75,621         -
Subtotal Equipment and Furniture            874,614    94.1      54,951    5.9      929,565    9.4     819,663       109,902        -
Books&Educat.Materials                      323,000    97.5      8,282     2.5      331,282    3.3     314,718        16,564        -
Supplies and Miscell.                       266,626    97.5      6,837     2.5     273,463     2.8     259,789        13,673        -
Subtotal Goods                              1,464,240    95.4     70,070     4.6   1,534,310    15.5   1,394,170       140,139        -
Training                                      139,092    50.0     139.092    50.0    278,184     2.8      139,092      139,092        -
Technical Asistance
Works Design/Eng./SPN                       565,938    90.0     62,882    10.0     628,820     6.3     565,938       62,882         -
Experts                                    453,423   100.0           -       -     453,423     4.6     453,423            -         -
Fellowships                                753,670    95.0      39,667     5.0     793,336     8.0    753,670        39,667         -
Subtotal Technical Assistance               1,773,031    94.5     102.549    5.5   1,875,580    18.9   1,773,031      102,549         -
Studies                                        60,547    50.0     60,547    50.0      121,094    1.2      60,547       60,547         -
Total Investment Costs                        7,652,553    77.8   2,178,962    22.2   9,831,515    99.0   7,582,483    1,646,797   602,235
Recurrent Costs
Maintenance
Equipment                                        -       -      96,663   100.0      96,663     1.0      57,998       38,665         -
Total Recurrent Costs                                -       -      96,663   100.0      96,663     1.0      57,998       38,665         -
Total Disbursement                            7,652,553    77.1   2,275,624    22.9   9,928,177   100.0   7,640,481    1,685,462   602,235
79



Annex 6 Appendix: Estimated Recurrent Costs
GRENADA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Estimate of Incremental Recurrent Costs Generated by the Project
(excluding Debt service)
1.    Incremental recurrent costs would be generated by the project by the year 2000 in regard to:
(a)    new positions in the MOE Establishment and related travel and office and general
expenses;
(b)   increased allowances for materials and supplies and for operations and maintenance in
primary and secondary schools;
(c)    operating expenditures for the additional 665 secondary school places comprising (i)
teacher salaries, (ii) non-teacher salaries, and (iii) non-sairy expenditure;
(d)    additional costs of maintaining the equipment and furniture supplied under the project,
and
(e)    maintennce cost for new secondary chool building provided under the project.
No increases are calculated for the maintenance of the new MOE building or for the relocated primary
schools because the existing structures in use generate more maintenance requirements than the proposed
new ones. Nor are increases calculated for the Planning Division of the Ministry of Finance as the two
fellowships are assumed to be existing staff.
2.    The Appendix to Annex 3 sets out the recurrent cost implications of the adjustment of
teacher to student ratios and the transfer of savings to other purposes. As Table 4 of that
Appendix shows, items listed in paragraph 1 above that are accommodated within the anticipated
savings are: (a); (b);(c)(i);(c)(iii); and (e)
3.    Costs estimated for the items that have not been covered by the savings are as follows:
(1) non-teacher salaries at Westerhall -EC$45,000 and
(2) maintenance of new office equipment and furniture - EC$ 125,000
This total of EC$170,000 is offset by the excess of savings (EC$259,000) shown in Table 4 of
the Appendix to Annex 3.
80



Annex 6 Appendix: Estimated Recurrent Costs
4.    Consequently, no net incremental recurrent cost is anticipated as a result of the project
and the adjustmnent program. as table 5 of the appendix to annex 3 shows, the MOE budget is
expected to rise over the project implementation period at a rate slower than that of the expected
increase in the national budget and these increases in the MOE budget are not attributable to the
project.
81



Implementation Program Annex 7
Table I
GRENADA: BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT: Implementation Program
CATEGORY and ITEM                              CY95*            CY96             CY97             CY98             CY99          CY2000
1. CIVIL WORKS:                                 *'dd      iiibbaaccccc    scccccccccggg             ggg
(a) Westerhall Secondary (New)
(b) SAMSS (Extension)                             '         --------d      ddiiibbaaccc    ccccccgggggg
(c) St. Theresa's Primar                                   --dddi          ibbaa-cccccc       cccgggggg
(d) St. John's Pnmary---                                                    ---dddi         ibbaa-cccccc    ccccccgggggg
(e) MOE Offices                                 **ddi   ibbacccccccc   gggggg
( .. Rehabilita.ion Prgram              '*---    dddiibaacccc     dddiibaacccc     dddiibaacccc     dddiibaacccc     dddiibaacccc
(f) Rehabilitation Program
2. FURNITUREIEQUIPMENTlSUPPLIES:
(a) PMU
(selected early items)                        *'liy   n
(b) Other MOE (incl. vehicles)                   **II-  iibb-aa---yn
''--I  111--iiibbb     -aa- yyrn
(c) For Westerhall Secondary
(d) For SAASS (Secondary)                        '            11        1--ii--bb-a      -yyn
(e) For St. Theresa's Primary                    *      ---Il-          --ii-bb-a--      ynn
(f) For St lohn's Primary                        *                       -------1        I-ii-bb-a_       yn
(g) School Supplies:a. School lits               *---  Il-ii-b-a-yy     Il-iiibbayyy
bp--I  liiba-yy--l     liiba-yy---      liiba-yy---
b. Books & supplies
(h) Reference Materials for MOE                         lliibbaayy-     lliibbaayy-      lliibbaayy--     lliibbaayy-      lliibbaayy-
3. EXPERTS
(a) 1. Management; 2. Education Planning; 3.     "-r        r-ooo-.---          ---ooo
General Publishing; Economic Planning
(6 months each)
(b) Project management (6 months)                  m      oooooo
(c) Procurement (2 months)                         miT      00-------
(d) Educ. Materials Production (2 months)        **-r       r---o--    ------
(e) Educational Testing (6 months)                           m             ooo----       --000-
4. FELLOWSHIPS                                  **ppp          oo-oo
(a) Sr. Managers (2 @ 2 months)
* *   .-sspp. ..-oooo       00000000
(b) Finan. Analyst; Statistician; Education
Planner; Teacher Trainer (TT), 2; School
Supervisor (S/SPV); Curr. Specialist (C/SPV), 2;
General & Art Editors; Educ. Testing Specialist
(ETS); Economic Plannger; Social Sector
Planner (I year each))
(c) T7, 2 C/SPV; ETS; SISPV-12 sm each                           SSPP      PP-----     ---
"-   ----sspp              0000--oo  oooooo--oooo    oooooo-oooo       ooooo-00-
(d) Secondary Teachers--2 in each successive
academic year, and TT in 1998-99
(e) Project Manager              ~*                         ***
(i) Project Accountant
(b) Procurement Officer                            0        --    -
5. LOCAL TRAINING                                          -xx--xx---       -----    ----  . ..  _.xxx--      --xxx-           ------ xxx--
6. STUDIES                                             . --xxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxx
In the columns, each character denotes one month, starting with January, except for CY 95 which begins with August;
KEY:    a: Award of Contract        b: Bid Analysis            c: Construction            d: Architectural Designs
g: Guaranty/liability Period   i: Invitation to bid  1: Equipment list preparation   n: Installation of Equipment   o: On the job or fellowship
p: Placement of fellows   r: Recruitmnent of experts  s: Selection of Fellows    x: conduct of study or local training
y: delivery of equipment/furniture/supplies
82



Technical Assistance Program Annex 7
Table 2
GRENADA: BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT: TECHICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Sub Component or Category             No. of    Duration   Purpose'
persons   in Months
A. EXPERTS
Management/Administration                 1            6   To assist MOE to streamline admin. structure and procedures
Auditing of Project Account           (firm)         n.a  To conduct annual audit of accounts
Planning                                  1            6   To assist MOE in long range sector plan & related studies
Project Management                        1            8   To help launch PMU and coordinate project implementation
Procurement                               1            2   Preparing equipment lists etc., packages & tender documents
General Editing                           1            6   To help in launching Educ. Materials Unit and in policy formulation on
textbooks procurement and production
Production of Reading Materials           1            2   To initiate desktop publishing and production tasks
Educational Testing                       1            6   To help set up ETX, reform existing tests, design new tests and establish
groundwork for studies
Economic Planning                         1            6   To assist the Planning Division of Ministry of Finance in macro
economic planning
Total                       8          42
B. FELLOWSHIPS
Senior Management                         2            4   For study tours & seminars relevant to educational reform.
Fjnancial Analysis                        1          122   Advanced training in financial management and analysis and the use of
computers in same
Educational Planning                      1           12   Advanced training in Educ. Planning (IIEP) and attachment
Economic Planning                          1           9   Advanced training in Economic Planning
Statistics                                1           12   Advanced training in Statistics and use of computers (UWI)
Social Sector Planning                    1            9   Advance training in Social Sector Planning
Project Management                        1            2   Study tours of comparable PMUs, seminars
Project Accounting                        I            I   Study tours of comparable PMUs
Procurement                               1            2   Seminars, attachment, study tour.
The Training of Teachers                  4           48   To upgrade TAMCC tutors in training of teachers, one in each core area
School Supervision                        2           24   Advanced training in school supervisory methods, school management,
and effectiveness; and attachments (UWI)
General Editing                           1           12   Advanced training in editing & publishing; attachment to publishing
house
Art Editing                               1           12   Advanced training in art editing, publishing, illustrating and book
layout; attachment to a publishing house
Educational Testing & Measurement         2           24   Advanced training in educational testing and related research;
attachment to CXC
Curriculum Development                    4           48   Advanced training in techniques of curriculum design, rsearch and
supervision and attachment (UWI)
In addition to the brief description of purpose given here, it would be required that each expert train counterparts (and other staff as indicated in terms of reference)
and prepare manuals as may be deemed necessary. The returned fellows would also be required to prepare reports for circulation among their peers and to conduct
seminars for appropriate groups to communicate some of the benefits derived from their training.
83



Technical Assistance Program Anmex 7
Sub Component or Category                 No. of    Duration   Purpose
persons   in Months
Secondazy School Teaching                      6            60   Post graduate training in pedagogy (e.g. Cert. Ed.) (UWI)
Total                                         30           401
In addition to the bdefdescription of purpose given here, it would be required that each expet tain countep    (and other staff as indicaed in tm  of reference)
and prepae menuals a may be deemed necesary. The remned fellows would also be requid to pepare reports for circulation among their peer and to conduct
serninus for appipriae groups tO conununicate some of the benefits derived from their uainin
84



Annex 7
Table 3
Disbursement by Semester and By Financier
Grenada
Basic Education Project
Disbursements by Semesters and Government Cash Flow
(USS)
The Government
Semester    Project    IBRDIIDA                     By Calendar           By Fl
Costs       Amount      By Semester        Year                Ye
1      1,610,163     1,292,687      317,476                         1995-96
2       1,610,163    1,292,687       317,476     1,996  634,952
3       1,528,396    1,192,055       336,342                        1996-97
4       1,528,396    1,192,055       336,342     1,997   672,684
5       1,109,244     832,891        276,353                        1997-98
6       1,109,244     832,891        276,353     1,998   552,707
7        476,501      341,934        134,566                        1998-99
8        476,501      341,934        134,566     1,999   269,132
9        239,785      166,710         73,075                        1999-00
10       239,785       166,710        73,075     2,000   146,149
2000-01
Total        9,928,177    7,652,553   2,275,624 (*)         2,275,624
*) 1.7 million net of taxes
85



Annex 7
Table 4
Disbursement Allocation
Grenada
Basic Education Project
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
IBRD/IDA
(USS)
Suggested Allocation of
Loan and Credit Proceeds
IBRD Loan    IDA Credit (*)            Disbursement
(USS '000)     (SDRs '000)              Percentage
L Civil Works
A. Construction and Prof. Fees($)                      1,760.0         1,180.0             72 percent of total cost
B. Renov.fR&pair of Schools and Prof. Fees              356.0           238.0              72 percent of total cost
100 percent of foreign expenditure and
2. Goods                                                697.0           467.0        50 percent of local expendinure
3. Consultants' serJki                                  216.0            145.0   100 percent of eligible expenditure
4. FellowshIps                                          359.0           240.0    95 percent of eligible expendirure
S. Studies and local training                            96.5            65.0    50 percent of eligible expenditure
6. UnaUocated                                           341.5           265.0
Total                                                    3,826.0         2,600.0
a Construction of one new secondary School in Westerhall, the upgrading and expansion of the SAAS secondary school,
the replacement of two primary schools, and new office space for MOE management and technical units
* SDRIUSS = 1.49385
86



Annex 7
Table 5
GRENADA: BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION INDICATORS
Introduction:
Monitoring and evaluation (M & E) will include both the achievement of specific targets and objectives (mainly
monitoring) and the realization of results or outcomes (more generally, evaluation). As there are no precise indicators or
benchmarks of quality and institutional development, imperfect and subjective indicators will need to be used where necessary.
Section I concerns monitoring of progress as indicated by physical land tangible measures. This represents a summary
of the detailed Implementation Chart which would be prepared by the PMU for the overall project showing the timing of each
stage of each task and component.
Section 2 concerns performance on costs. This requires data from Project Accountant who would have the costs broken
down by the various categories of expenditure: civil works, professional fees, furniture, equipment, materials and supplies,
fellowships, experts, training, studies, etc. Again the periodic reporting would merely present a summary of detailed picture.
Whereas sections I and 2 are designed to draw attention to trends that may need to be addressed, section 3 relates to
evaluative fragments of a more summative character that should be contributed by both the PMU and the beneficiaries of the
components.
SECTION 1.  IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING INDICATORS - Table A
Significant Measure of Achievement
Project Component  Indicators                                   Overall target  Expected      Actual achievement       Comments
or Item                                                              achievement   of completion (as %
at this point    of expected
achievement where
possible)
Expert  Field of Specialization: e.g. Pr    Met
Services   No. of expert months.                       e.g 6          e.g 4         e.g  2 (33%/6)
Conduct of work.                             100%           70%           e.g 35%
Fellowships  Field of Specialization: e.g. Curr. Dev.
or Study tours   No. to be awarded;                         4              2              2 (100%b)
Months of study abroad;                      43             10            10 (100%)
No. of recipients completed training         4              1             2 (200%)
No. returned to job                          4              1             1(100%)
Local training  Field of Training: f
Seminars/workshops intended:
(a) e.g. support of statistics (data collection)
(b) e.g support of school mapping
No. of participants envisaged:
(a)...
(b)...
No. of counterparts trained by experts
No. of participants in orientation workshop
Studies  List of Agreed studies:
EPU: (i) Topic:_
a. Terms of reference                 1000/0         1000/0         1000/%
b. Mobilization of resources (staff etc.)  100%      100%           75%
c. Conduct of work                    100%           60%            etc.
d. Draft Report                       etc.
e. Final Report
f. Adoption of recommendations        100%                          -
g.Implementation of recommendations   1000/%
(ii) Topic:_
(iii)....
PMU: (i)
etc.***
87



Annex 7
Significant Measure of Achievement
Project Component  Indicators                                  Overall target  Expected     Actual achievement       Comments
or Item                                                             achievement   of completion (as %
at this point   of expected
achievement where
possible)
Salary:nonsalary  1. Budget Figures:
Adjustment    a. Ratios of non-salary to salary expenditure:  e.g
Program        (i) Primary Schools                    9:91           6:94          5:95 (83.3%o)
(ii) Secondary Schools                 I 1:89        7:93          6:94 (85.7%)
b. Increase in Administrative budget (%)
2. Teacher to student ratios:                40            32            25 (78%)
(a) Primary
(b) Secondary                          1:30          1:28          1:27.3 (97.5%)
1:25          1:22          1:21.5(97.7%)
88



Annex 7
SECTION 1.  IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING INDICATORS - Table B
institutional        Unit (EPU, PMU, ETX etc.)                      Summary of    Expected         Summary of    Commients
Strengthening                                                        Objectives &    achievement   Achievetnent
Targets        at this point
a. Establishment of Posts               7              7              7 (100%)
b. Filling of Posts                     7              6              6(100%)
c. Training of Staff                    100l/.         50%            60%/o
d. Adoption of Work Program             100%           100ffe         100%K
c. Execution of Work Program            1000/.         40%            35%
a. Establishment of Posts
b. Filling of Posts
c. Training of Staff
d. Adoption of Work Program
e. Execution of Work Program
ET2
a. Establishment of Posts
b. Filling of Posts
c. Training of Staff
d. Adoption of Work Program
e. Execution of Work Program
89



Annex 7
SECTION 1.  IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING INDICATORS - Table C
Hardware
Items            Originally scheduled    % of task (by          A.tua. achievement (as %    Comments
Dates                  value/time allowed)     of overall volume or value)  (including any revision of
originally scheduled to   at the time of this reporting   dates)
be completed as of this
date
Civil Works:
a) Office Building
(i) From start of
Designs to
Contract signing
(% of time)
(ii) from contract
signing to
handover
(% of value)
b) Westerhall
Secondary
(i) From start of
Designs to
Contraci signing
(% of time)
(ii) from contract
signing to
handover
(% of value)
c) SAASS
(i) From start of
Designs to
Contract signing
(% of time)
(ii) frem contract
signing to
handover
(% of value)
d) St. John's Primary
(i) From start of
Designs to
Contract signing
(% of time)
(ii) from contract
signing to
handover
(% of value)
e) S. Theresa's Primary
(i) From start of
Designs to
Contract signing
(% of time)
(ii) from contract
signing to
handover
(% of value)
Designs -> Bid invitaton-> Bid Analysys-> Award of Contract
contract signing -> Construction -> Handover
90



Annex 7
SECTION 1.  IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING INDICATORS -Table D
Original Schedule; from Design to Handover      Achievement as of this       Comments
Rehabilitation                                                        monitoring
of Schools:
School I (name)      e.g Jan 1996 -May 1996                           On schedule (100% of        e.g. excessive rain
School 2 (name)      -                                                target)
School 3 (name)      -
School4(-) 4
School 5(-) 
91



Annex 7
SECTION 1.  IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING INDICATORS Table E
Fumiture,               Originally    % of completion (by     Actuail achievement (as %   Comments
Equipment,               Scheduled    value/time allowed)     of overall volume or
Supplies:               Dates        originally scheduled to    value) at of this date
be completed as of this
date
a) Office equipment
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of time)
vii) From signing to delivery
and installation (% ol value)
b) Office Jurniture
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of time)
(ii) F.om signing to delivery
and insta!lation (% of value)
c) School Equipment
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of time)
(ii) From signing to delivery
and installation (% of value)
d) School Furniture
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of time)
(ii) From signing to delivery
and installation (% of value)
e) Vehicles
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of time)
(ii) From signing to delivery
and installation (% of value)
f) Computers and related
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of time)
(ii) From signing to delivery
and installation (% of value)
g) Textbooks
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of time)
(ii) From signing to delivery
and installation (% of value)
h) Kits for Schools
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of time)
(ii) From signing to delivery
and installation (% of value)
i) Other
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of time)
(ii) From signing to delivery
and installation (% of value
92



Annex 7
SECTION 2.  COST MONITORING
ComponentVItem                   Appraisal Cost Estimate    Latest Revised   Actual Cost for    Reasons for Change
Cost Estimate     completed Item     in Cost or Cost
(date of revision)                   Estimate
(a) CIVIL WORKS:
i. MOE OFFICES
ii. Westerhall Secondary
iii. SAASS
iv. St. John's Primary
v. St. Theresa's Primary
vi. Rehabilitation Program
(summary from latest update of list)
(b) CONSULTANT PROFESSIONAL
SERVICES
(for civil works)
(c) EQUIPMENT
i. Office
ii. School
iii. Other
(d) SUPPLIES & MATERIALS
i. Office
ii. School
iii. Other
(e) COMPUTERS & RELATED
SOFTWARE
(f) TEXTBOOKS
(g) FURNITURE
(h) FELLOWSHIPS
(i) EXPERT SERVICES
(j) STUDIES (Including Consultants used)
(k) LOCAL TRA[INNG
(I) REFERENCE LITERATURE
93



Annex 7
SECTION 3: EVALUATION ISSUES AND INDICATORS
Unit or Activity         N ature of Expected Outcomes                Indicauons and Assessments of Impact/Bennfit
Senior Management:        Incorporation of rinancial analysis into the  Value of studies done and their impact on policy at the macro and
Financial Analysis         operations of MOE                           micro sector levels;
Improvement of budget format so as to facilitate tracking of
expenditure and allocations by level, school, category etc.
Quality of analytical work.
Policy formulation       More systematic way of preparing for policy    Evidence of more active tackling ofkcy policy issues with emphasis
decisions                                   on information, analysis & consultation
Planning & Statistics     Long Range Plan for the Sector              Extent of promotion of national discussion and debate on education;
Comprehensiveness of plan and integration of objectives into macro
economic development priorities;
Responsiveness of pianning to marters of cost effectiveness, equity and
reievance to national needs.
Acceptance of planning as an institutionalized necessity;
Cooperation with OECS in development policy and plans.
Cooperation with and support from central planning uniL
Statistical Data Base covering students     Utilization and dissemination of data,
teachers schools, MOE staft expenditure,    Comprehensiveness of coverage of data,
etc.                                        Participation of unit in research in MOE,
Relationship with extemal bodies (OECS, Central Statistical Office &
other Gov't statistical units, etc.)
Project Management       Successful implemenation of the project;     Evidence of capacity to implement and evaluate projects efficiently:
Assessment of overall achievement in both the Prppoject and the sector
development program
Success in maintaining physical plant;      Principals' assessments of the effectiveness of delivery of goods and
works;
Improved procurement and distribution of
supplies to the schools.                    Improvement in the achievement of development program objectives.
Educational Testing &    New and revised Tests;                       Use of test results in design of new tests, research, reading materials,
Measurement                professionalizing of testing;               school supervision strategies, syllabus and curriculum development.
item banks;                                 teacher training.
research;
norms & standards;                          Evidence of increased capacitv in testing and related work.
analysis and dissemination of test results.
Teacher training          Increase in numbers of teachers trained on an    Evidence of actual improvement in methods of teaching as indicated in
inservice basis;                            use of materials, focus on problem solving, test and examination
results.
Improved average qualifications of school   Evidence of increased teacher training capacity.quantiative in terms of
teachers;                                   staff calibre.
Reduced artrition of teachers;
More highly qualified and expanded teacher
training saff;
Curriculum                Substantial progress in renewal of syllabi and   Improved academic performance and evidence of impact on lifestyles
Development &              curricula;                                  (health, safety, social conscience).
Supervision                Improved inter-grade and inter-cycle
coordination of curricula and syllabi.      Evidence of greater institutionalized capacity in curriculum design,
Greater clarity of objectives and the required    research and supervision.
teaching strategy;
Increased emphasis on local exampies and
local sening where appropriate and on
problem solving and reflection demanded of
students.
Greater professionalization of CDU staff
Educational Materials     Volume and range of output of new,          Evidence of capacity to design, prepare and produce materials.
Procurement and            supplementary and other materials.          Evidence of use of materials produced;
Production                 Improvements in policies and procedures     Evidence of user feedback on the quality and value of materials.
relative to procurement of educational      Evidence of use of feedback in the revision of materials.
reading matenals.
Professionalizing of EMU staff
Schools Library Services   More intensive service to schools; training
of teachers in use of library in teaching and
in organizing collections.
94



Annex 7
SECTION 4
Key Project Performance Indicators
Key Performante Indicators                                                             Endof Project
Mid-Project Targets        Targets
Baseline
I.Strengthening Planning and Management
Quantity Indicators
New MOE's Offices                                             0%                  100%                  100%
Salary/non salary expenditure adjustment program
Teacher to Student ratios:
(i) Primary Schools                    1:27                 1:28                  1:29
(ii) Secondary Schools                 1:19                 1:21.9               1:23.5
EC$ spent per student
per annum             (i) Primary Schools
Supplies/Materials                   15                   20                    34
Operations/Maintenance               12                   15                    21
(ii) Secondary Schools
Supplies/Materials                   16                   20                    37
Operations/Maintenance               0                    10                    25
Behavioral Indicators (observed through regular                                 See Table 2
supervision visits)                                  _______________________________
2. IMDrovinp the Oualitv of Basic Education                                _________    _________
Quality_ Indicators 
Common Entrance Examination                             1995 Test Scores    Plus 10%             Plus 20%
Quantity Indicators 
Availability of Appropriate Textbooks                   75% of primary        95% of primary        95% of primary
school population    school population     school population
Professionally trained teachers
in Primary Schools                                           43%                   49%                   65%
Availability of Instructional Materials and Equipment     Very limited          Improved              Improved
(observed through regular supervision visits)       l
Behavioral Indicators (observed through regular
supervision visits)                                   _
Teachers' knowledge of appropriate curriculum and design    Limited             Improved               Improved
of lessons plans at each stage of child development.
Implementation of High Quality and Varied Teaching and    Traditional      Survey indicates      Survey indicates
Assessment Methods                                        Chalk/Board      positive change in at   positive change in at
Techniques      least 30% of schools   least 60% of schools
3 . Expanding Access to Schools                      l_l_|
Quantity Indicators
New School Buildings
Replaced Primary Schools                                     0                     1                     2
Extensions to Secondary Schools                              0                     1                     1
New Secondary Schools                                        0                     1                     I
Secondary School Enrollment                           63% of the 12-16 age  66% of the 12-16 age   70% of the 12-16 age
cohort ( net of      cohort ( net of      cohort ( net of
repeaters older than   repeaters older than    repeaters older than
16 years of age)     16 years of age)     16 years of age)
95






IBRD 27487
61 '45                                          61 '40'dI    OI A                              rn11 ;rnv!R/
AAIT  DOAIT. CAN         S d0           'urn
REPUBL C                   /5 M,'',n 1<
GRENADA                                                                               !                 NT Ch 'A  ;
BASIC  EDUCATION  REFORM  PROJECT                                                                                        ST KITTS -dNEI SI-'l
MolIr: (U K)    DO. NICA
*    PROJECT LOCATIONS                          RIVERS                                                                          ST LT A
ELEVATIONS IN FEET:                  i    AIRPORTS                                                               oRENAd,T5ES
>2000                               ----PARISH BOUNDARIES                        d... ..o             . mAU              GRENADA
1500-2000                                                                       COL                                        TRI.'DD-
12'15      7    ~~50-100INTERNATIONAL                                                               1/"                                       VS
1 2'15'              <500-1500                                    BOUNDARIES (INSET)    12'15-                         V E N E Z U E L A
MAIN ROADS
o    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                     61'35
6    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                             ur      s
Victoria,/ i., 7
MAR7                      'Al    _  ivl
4 0         S,  TR    (     )  
-1210                                 Gou                           ,vo                                                                                        12'1 0-
PRIMARY SCHOOLS
TO BE REBUILT (ST. JOHN'S/
PEARLS AIRPORT
Grand Roy        -           t                            '-t                          Paradise
SECONDARY SCHOOL
70 BE UPGRADED (SAASS)
<f> <<@> < * X3L,M                                                         arquis
1 2'05'                                       V end6-                                                                                                          12-05-
MOE OFFICE BUILDING                               (                           PRI r sCHOOLS TO BE REBUILT (ST. THERESA'S)
ST. GEORGE'S                                                            '                                        61'35
BeInnon S   9              >       \           4  A  8  I D                              0         5        lo                61 25
C rint<  <                                           KILOM0ETERS                  f        12 30
Hillsborough
Carriacou
-NEW SECONDARY
1 2'00   POINT SAL/NES         \\SCHOOL (WESTERHALL)                                                      12'0'-  12'25-                               Q        12 25
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
0          2          4          6          8          10 KILOMETERS                                              12'20-                                      12 20
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                           Ronde       1<,
shown on this mop do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,                                                      Island    \_
any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement                                                               ,
or acceptance of such boundories.
61'40                               61'35            6130             61 25-
NOVEMBER 1995









'4VIS  :.tIJA,L
('I ,- ., 13ir   t, I        i:fN   1Ire;
iSE:  iP:   ?.T7de5I
Iw  kiv i



