Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24023
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-39700; IDA-28040)
ONA
LOAN AND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.6 MILLION
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
GRENADA
FOR A
GD- BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
04/18/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective - March 31, 2002)
Currency Unit = Eastem Caribbean Dollars (EC)
EC 1 = US$ 0.37
US$ 1 = EC 2.70
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BERP          Basic Education Reform Project
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CDB           Caribbean Development Bank
CDU           Curriculum Development Unit
CEE           Common Entrance Examination
CXC           Caribbean Examinations Council
DFID          Department for Intemational Development
EMU           Educational Materials Unit
EXT           Educational Testing and Examinations Unit
GOG           Government of Grenada
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
MCT           Minimum Competency Test
MOE           Ministry of Education
OECS          Organization of Easter Caribbean States
PMU           Project Management Unit
SAASS         St. Andrew's Anglican Secondary School
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SAMU          School Administration and Management Unit
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SLE           School Leaving Examination
SPEED         Strategic Plan for Education Enhancement and Development
TAMCC         T.A. Marryshow Community College
UWI           University of West Indies
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Director:   Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Director:  Ana Maria Arriagada
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Cynthia Hobbs



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GRENADA
GD- BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              12
6. Sustainability                                                                  14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 16
9. Partner Comments                                                                17
10. Additional Information                                                         18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              29
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                   30
Annex 9. Fellowships and Expert Services                                           40
Annex 10. Training Workshops Conducted                                             42
Annex 11. School Visits                                                            43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P043923                                    Project Name: GD- BASIC EDUCATION REF
Team Leader: Cynthia Hobbs                             TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                     Report Date: May 1, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: GD- BASIC EDUCATION REF                     L/C/TFNumber: SCL-39700;
IDA-28040
Country/Department: GRENADA                                          Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 02/23/1994                             Effective: 05/28/1996        06/13/1996
Appraisal: 06/19/1995                              MTR: 09/30/1998           11/30/1998
Approval:  12/21/1995                            Closing: 06/30/2001         12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF GRENADA/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF               Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:     David De Ferranti                       Javed Burki
Country Manager:    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                   Paul Iseman
Sector Manager:     Ana-Maria Arriagada                     Julian F. Schweitzer
Team Leader at ICR:  Cynthia Hobbs                          Ralph Romnain
ICR Primary Author:  M. Rosa Puech
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall project goal was to accelerate human resource development so that the requisite manpower
could be produced to support the sought economic transition. The project objectives were to: (a) strengthen
the planning and institutional capacity of the Ministry of Education (MOE) to guide and carry out the long-



term development of the sector, while enabling it to initiate urgent measures to address system-wide
qualitative problems and expansion needs at the primary and secondary levels; and (ii) serve as a catalyst
for a major adjustment process, focused on moving toward more reasonable primary and secondary
teacher/student ratios, in line with ratios of countries in similar economic and social circumstances.
The specific project objectives were: (i) to strengthen management in the sector, as well as educational
planning and central planning; (ii) to improve the quality of basic education; and (iii) to expand access to
secondary education and rehabilitate primary and secondary school facilities.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions were made to project objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The total project costs were estimated at US$9.9 million equivalent (US$3.8 million loan and SDR2.60
million credit or US$3.80 million equivalent and a Government's contribution of US$2.3 million). The
project comprised three main components and several subcomponents:
Component 1: Strengthening Management and Planning (US$1.17 million equivalent or 19 percent of
total base cost). This component would support the MOE's efforts to review and rationalize the use of
existing human and financial resources and improve the efficiency in guiding the education system by
providing fellowships, expert advice, office space, furniture, equipment, supplies, vehicles and policy
studies in the areas of: (i) financial management; (ii) educational planning and (iii) project management and
development
Component 2: Qualitative Improvement of Basic Education (US$2.2 million equivalent or 26 percent of
total base cost). This component aimed to build permanent institutional capacity to promote quality
improvement and to monitor and diagnose problems with regard to education quality by financing
investments in the areas of: (i) teacher training; (ii) school supervision; (iii) curriculum development; (iv)
educational materials; and (v) educational testing and measurement.
Component 3: Expansion of Access to Schools (UJS$4.7 million equivalent or 55 percent of total base
costs). This component would allow for the expansion of access to basic education by:
1. increasing secondary places in the most under-served districts, by constructing one new secondary
school in Westerhall in St. Davis and expanding and improving an existing one, St. Andrew's
Anglican Secondary School in Telescope, St. Andrews;
2. replacing two existing primary schools: St. John's R.C. in Gouyave (St. John's) and St. Theresa
R.C. in Vincennes (St. Davis);
3. assisting in the rehabilitation of selected primary and secondary schools with urgent needs and
provision of furniture and equipment; and
4. training selected school staff in preventive maintenance and mobilization of community support for
maintenance.
3.4 Revised Components:
None of the components were revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
-2 -



SATISFACTORY. The BERP responded to a Government request to the Bank to assist Grenada in its
efforts to reform the education system. The project benefited from substantial preparation and in-depth
discussions on the project development objectives between the Government, the Caribbean Development
Bank (CDB) and the World Bank staff. Consistency with regional priorities in education reform strategies
was sought during the preparation period as well as alignment with Government priorities. The decision to
focus on the basic education cycle (grades 1 to 9 ) was in accordance with regional discussions in 1992-93.
The actual content of the project was designed by the World Bank and the Government during
February-October 1995. The project was in accordance with the objectives of the CAS of April 1995.
The project's development objective was relevant, since the project was seen as a first step in the human
resource development process in Grenada. The project design was appropriate, though challenging for a
Ministry with little experience in implementing a Bank-financed project. This was coupled with the
scarcity of specialized human resources qualified to implement the project. These factors impacted heavily
on project implementation over the years. In this context, the phasing of project activities was too
front-loaded, especially in the fellowship and civil works components. As indicated in the SAR, around
62% of project expenditures were scheduled for the first eighteen months of the project. This was
unrealistic, since a PMU had to be created and trained.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the project's objectives is rated Satisfactory based on the following outcomes:
*   Strengthened management in the education sector to improve efficiency, measured by the
reorganization of the MOE; improved teacher/student ratios in primary and secondary; reduction in the
percentage of budgetary resources used for salary expenditure and reductions in repetition and drop-out
rates;
*   Improved education quality, measured by increments in the passing scores in the regional standardized
tests in the four core areas (Mathematics, Language Arts, Social Studies and Science); availability of
textbooks and learning materials; and the use of new teaching techniques; and
*   Greater access to education as measured by increased enrollment in secondary education.
Stren-thening Manazement in the Education Sector
By improving the planning and institutional capacity of the MOE, the project had a significant impact on
the efficiency of the education sector.
Reorganization of the MOE: The MOE created and/or strengthened several units in key areas: materials
production, project management, educational testing and exams, educational planning and statistics, and
curriculum. With the exception of the Educational Planning Unit (EPU), these units were adequately
staffed and operational by project closing. The MOE has made the necessary representation with the Public
Service Commission to identify and hire appropriate candidates by the first quarter of 2002 to fill the
vacant positions in the EPU. Senior personnel of the MOE have been trained in educational planning,
statistics and educational policy, three people in the Ministry of Finance have been trained in social sector
planning. In addition, the PMU has been fully institutionalized within the MOE. During the last five years,
- 3-



in the education system there have been more structured policy formulation and increased participatory
approaches in policy development.
The main achievements in planning are: (i) the successful completion by the MOE of a long term
development plan for the education sector (Strategic Plan for Education Enhancement and Development -
SPEED), which will be the backbone for the preparation of a follow-up project supported by the Bank and
the Department for International Development (DFID); (ii) the production of a Statistical Digest
(1998-2001); and (iii) initiation of the development of an integrated data system (not fully completed by
project closing).
Efficiency: Some indicators selected to measure efficiency (teacher/student ratio and percentage of budget
used for salary expenditure) point to a slower than projected improvement in this area. The teacher/student
ratio at primary level went from 1:27 in 1994/95 to 1:25 in 2000/01, falling short of the target (1:29). This
could be explained by a faster than expected reduction in the primary school population across all parishes
(total enrollment in primary schools was 22,600 students in 1994/95 as per SAR, versus 19,134 in
2000/01). The reduction in the number of teachers (from 837 at project start to 765 at project closing) was
not as fast, falling short of the target (688 teachers in primary). Only 12 percent of the primary schools
had reached the 1:29 target, while in the others it ranged from 1:16 to 1:28. The teacher/student ratio in
secondary went from 1:19 in 1994/95 to 1:23 in 2001, slightly lower than targeted in the SAR (1:23.5).
Around 11 percent of secondary schools achieved the target, while in 50 percent of them, the ratio is
between 1:16 to 1:22 and in 39 percent, it varies from 1:24 to 1:28. The teacher/student ratios seem to be
the result of the evolution of enrollment rather than a deliberate action by the MOE. Only recently has the
MOE initiated a policy to reach the desired targets, including mechanisms to ensure that the principals are
taking the necessary actions at school level.
The project intended to have a catalytic role in the reallocation of resources towards more resources for
management strengthening, educational materials and maintenance. At present, the data for school
maintenance and instructional materials are not calculated. It is expected that in the coming months, the
Financial Management analyst will address these information needs to inform policy decisions. The
available data on expenditure on salaries and related expenditures indicate that the target of 90 percent of
total expenditure has been reached for secondary (only 88.50 percent now spent on salaries) but not for
primary (94.83 percent) (see Annex 1).
School efficiency indicators have improved since 1995, as shown in Table 1 below:
Table 1 - School Efficiency Indicators for 1994/5 and 2000/01 (in percent)
Efficiency Indicators  Base Line Year      Target             End of Project Year
(2000/01)
Primary Repetition rates  11.2%            8.96%              5.2%
Secondary Repetition rates  11.6%          9.28%              1.3%
Pnmary Drop out rates  n.a.                n.a                0.7%
Secondary Drop out rates  n.a.             n.a                 1.1%
Oualitative ImDrovement of Basic Education
To measure the improvement in quality, the project selected the Common Entrance Exam (CEE) and
Caribbean Examination Council (CXC) exam results as indicators. It is important to highlight that these
exams traditionally have been used for selection purposes and were not analyzed to assess learning
-4 -



achievements. During the project, efforts were made to start using these exams as a diagnostic tool to
monitor learning and to improve quality. In addition, the MOE administered, for the first time, in 1999, a
Minimum Competency Test (MCT) for Grade 4 students in Language Arts and Mathematics. The test was
designed to determine whether the students at that grade level had acquired the necessary knowledge and
skills as outlined in the prescribed curriculum. Overall the test scores have been poor, indicating that the
majority of students have not acquired an acceptable level of knowledge and skills as outlined in the
curriculum.
The CEE is administered at the end of Grade 6. Eligibility for the CEE is based on age and grade level
attained rather than on performance or achievement in class administered tests. Before 1997, the test's
purpose was to act as a selection mechanism to allocate places in secondary schools to students 11 to 13
years of age. Since 1997, it is being used as a quality assessment mechanism as well. The test covers four
core areas: Mathematics, Language Arts, Social Studies and Science. The results are not conclusive. The
mean CEE scores for English and Mathematics worsened in 1999 and 2000 from their 1998 level,
improving in the year 2001. The percentage of students assigned to secondary schools in relation to the
number of students who sat for the examination increased from 44 percent in 1996 to 50 percent in 2001.
The CXC examination is regional and is applied at the end of secondary school (Form 5). Generally,
performance has improved, measured by the percentage of passes (52.5 percent in 1995; 62.7 in 1998 and
66 percent in 2001). The percentage of students who obtained four passes increased from 35 percent in
1998 to nearly 51 percent in 2001. There are significant differences between subjects (while over 90
percent passed integrated science and information technology, only 23 percent passed Mathematics and 32
percent passed Chemistry). As shown in the table below, the percentage of students who passed four
subjects in 2001, including English and Mathematics (12.3 percent) was significantly less than the
percentage who passed four subjects in general (50.4 percent).
Table 2- CXC Examination Results - Percentage o Students
1995        1998        2001
Percentage of students passing at least 4 subjects.   n.a         n.a         50.4
Percentage of students passing at least 4 subjects, including English  n.a  35  41.8
Percentage of students passing at least 4 subjects, including  n.a  n.a       12.3
English and Mathematics
Table 3 - CXC Examination Subjects Ranked according to Pass Percenta ,es in Public Se ondary Schools
Subject Passes                                                    1996        2001
Integrated Science                                                92.5        90.2
Information Technology                                            42.9        92.3
Social Studies                                                    87.7        80.4
English                                                           44.2        56.9
Mathematics                                                       39.5        23.7
Chemistry                                                         35.4        32.8
There is greater availability of textbooks and instructional materials in the schools. Improvements were
perceived in teachers' knowledge of the curriculum and the use of different teaching techniques. More work
needs to be done to broaden and deepen these incipient achievemens through hands-on training and
technical assistance in the classroom to help teachers translate the new skills acquired through training.
Exvansion of Access to Schools
-5-



Increase in enrollment at the secondary level: At the primary school level, absolute enrollment numbers
have decreased, in line with a decrease of population in primary school-age children over the last few years.
Net enrollment rates have remained at the same levels during the life of the project (94-96%). Absolute
enrollment numbers in secondary schools have gone from 7,417 in 1995 to 9,699 in 2000, an increment of
over 6 percent per year. Gross enrollment rates have increased from 67 percent in 1995 to 88 percent in
2001. Transition rates have improved from 41 percent in 1996 to 46 percent in 2001. The project aimed at
increasing access for secondary level outside of Saint Georges (in St. Davis and in St. Andrews). The
project created 315 new enrollment spaces with construction of the new Westerhall school in St Davis.
Due to delays in start up and higher than expected costs, the actual number of places was lower than the
525 projected, though it laid the infrastructure for future expansion.
Improved learning environments: Learning environments have improved in the two replaced primary
schools. Classes have separate classrooms, the physical environment is safe and clean, there is less noise in
the school compound, there are facilities for the staff, and the general environment is more sanitary than in
the old buildings. In the refurbished schools, the works made a positive impact, but the extent of this
impact varied depending upon the quality and the scope of the work.
Maintenance policy: The project fell short in this particular activity. A draft maintenance policy has been
completed and it is pending approval.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Strengthening management and planning
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
After some delays in execution, this component was successful in strengthening key areas in the MOE,
laying the ground to improve management, planning and productivity.
Analysis by sub-component:
1.1 Senior Management: This subcomponent achieved its targets as indicated in the SAR (see Annex 1). It
supported the MOE's efforts to reorganize the Ministry, train its key senior managers, provide expert
services, carry out study tours and build new facilities. An audit of the organization and management of
the MOE was finalized by August 2000 and the MOE has been adopting some of the main
recommendations. As foreseen in the SAR, study tours for two senior staff (Permanent Secretary and the
Chief Education Officer at the time) were carried out. However, these persons are no longer working at the
MOE.
A new building for the Ministry of Education to accommodate its staff was completed in the second half of
2001, and all staff, including the new units, had moved in by project completion. The new building has had
a positive impact on staff morale and productivity. It has provided the necessary infrastructure for the new
units to work more effectively and use the equipment and resources provided under the project; such is the
case for the Education Materials Unit. Nevertheless, the construction of the new building was seriously
delayed, causing significant cost overruns that were met by the Government (see section 5.4 ). The delays
and cost overruns were due to a site change, significant changes in structural design as a result of this and
unanticipated excavation work to prepare the site for construction.
1.2 Financial Management: The project provided support to train a financial analyst to improve efficiency
- 6-



in the education sector. The MOE staff member undertook a one year fellowship to receive advanced
training in financial management and analysis and efficiency studies. However she took the training much
later than planned, due to her responsibilities in the Planning Unit, and assumed her position as financial
analyst just six months before the project closing. As a result, there was little progress in establishing a
system for collection and analysis of data on allocation of resources. Improvements in the budget format to
track expenditures and allocation of resources to schools or others did not materialize before project
closing. So, too, was the case for incorporating financial analysis to the MOE operations.
1.3 Planning: The project partially met the targets established in the SAR. The project successfully
created a new Education Planning and Statistics Unit within the MOE. A long term education sector plan
(SPEED) was finalized just before project completion and now provides the Government of Grenada
(GOG) with the basis for seeking support from the international donor community to carry out the
objectives of the sector reform plan. It will lay the groundwork for the preparation of the new education
project with the Bank and DFID. Though its preparation took much longer than projected in the SAR (the
long term development plan was supposed to cover 1996-2000, while it was actually concluded in
December 2001 for 2002-2010), the preparation process was participatory. The project also succeeded in
establishing the -foundation for an integrated education data system. A first Statistical Digest was produced
in 1997, and upgraded later to correct some data. A new version for 1998-2001 was finalized just after
project closing. Additionally, all the Unit's staff were trained in data management. A new statistician was
hired during the last year of the project, and significant progress was made during that time to improve data
collection, processing and analysis. However, the statistician still requires training in statistics and the use
of appropriate software.
The project provided three fellowships for Ministry of Finance personnel (one in economic planning and
two in social sector planning) to strengthen the national macro-economic planning capacity to improve the
linkage with the between national and education planning. All three fellows now occupy senior positions in
the Ministry of Finance (Permanent Secretary, Head of the Project Development and Cooperation Unit and
Project Officer in the European Development Fund). Despite improvements, there is a need to further
strengthen the linkages between national and sectoral planning through deeper and closer involvement of the
fellows into daily issues relevant to the education sector. Under the project, school management personnel
received training on educational planning principles. The training was highly valued and there is need for
more.
One of the main concerns is that the senior planner was promoted to the position of acting Chief Education
Officer (CEO), and a new planner had not been hired by project closing. The absence of this key figure has
seriously hampered the effectiveness of the unit's work and its leadership. The MOE requested the
expedient approval of the CEO in order to be able to advertise the senior planning position. The position
should be filled during the first quarter of 2002.
1.4 Project Management and Development: Under the project, a PMU was created to coordinate project
implementation, monitoring and evaluation, prepare progress reports and implement the MOE's
development program. It incorporated preexisting units for school maintenance and the procurement and
distribution of school equipment, furniture, materials and supplies. The PMU was adequately staffed by
project closing, with a full time accountant and procurement experts, support staff and a PMU manager.
The PMU experts received training abroad in the relevant areas of their responsibilities. The PMU is
currently preparing the new project to be presented to the Bank and it is managing other projects with
international financial support.
As detailed in section 5.3, for nearly two years, the PMU manager was simultaneously responsible for his
- 7 -



full-time position and that of the Permanent Secretary of the MOE. This caused delays in project
implementation. In February 2001, a new acting project manager was appointed. She has been very
influential in achieving a successful project closing.
Component 2. Qualitative Improvement of Basic Education
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The project was successful in: (i) improving the quality of teacher training through training interventions
and the provision of appropriate teaching materials and facilities; (ii) improving the relevance of the
curriculum through training interventions and the provision of appropriate teaching and learning materials;
(iii) strengthening the capacity of the MOE to produce and procure educational materials through training
interventions, the supply of basic textbooks and provision of appropriate equipment; and (iv) strengthening
the capacity of the MOE to develop and administer exams and assess student achievements. The project
had little impact in improving the quality of school supervision. All of these activities were undertaken
with delays, which limited the impact on the daily activities of the MOE and had limited time to trickle
down to the schools.
Analysis by sub-component:
2.1 Teacher training: The project was successful in improving teacher training at the basic and in-service
level. By project completion, the project had financed five fellowships (five staff years) for teachers to be
trained as teacher educators in the four core areas (social studies, sciences, mathematics and language) at
the University of the West Indies (UWI). These teacher educators then went to teach at the Teacher
Training Institute of the TA Marryshow Community College (TAMCC). The project financed seven
fellowships (seven staff years) for secondary teachers to acquire pedagogical training at UWI. The project
also financed equipment for the language and science laboratories and equipment for the resource center at
TAMCC. The language lab was timely equipped and its resources were highly valued by teachers. In the
case of the science lab, there were termite problems that delayed the timely use of the new equipment,
shortly before project closing. These problems had been partially resolved by project closing. TAMCC
expanded its core of tutors to 17 including the Dean of Professional Studies and the Head of the Teacher
Training Department.
The project financed in-service training programs for primary school teachers in the four subject areas on
pedagogical skills, organization of curriculum at school level, use of staff and facilities, etc. up to 1997.
The program was then replaced with a secondary teacher training program at TAMCC. A total of 33
teachers completed the TAMCC program and 24 passed UWI Certificate Exams. A total of 60 students
enrolled in 2002.
The ICR mission met with the direct beneficiaries of the fellowships, who assessed the training received as
appropriate. They felt that their pedagogical and theoretical knowledge was enhanced and they were
empowered to better perform their tasks as teacher trainers. They brought up some shortcomings such as
the difficulties to receive the fellowship funds, which forced some fellows to seek outside financial
assistance. Other stakeholders (at TAMCC) expressed their disappointment for their lack of participation
in the design and implementation of the training program. Assessors' reports of the trainees' practical
teaching indicated an increase in the use of creative and interactive methods during lesson presentation.
The studies on teacher attrition and effectiveness and the impact of training of teachers were not done
before project completion.
- 8-



2.2 School supervision: This subcomponent has fallen short of the objectives envisaged, not having the
expected impact in strengthening the school supervisory service to assist the schools in key areas
(assessment of teachers' performance, school management, effective school operations). The project
financed two fellowships for school supervisors in school supervision (who are at present working in the
School Administration and Management Unit (SAMU) of the MOE) and provided new accommodations as
well as supplies and equipment for the supervision team in the MOE's new building. Project activities have
resulted in some new approaches at school level but it has not been widespread and institutionalized. Also,
the school supervision unit, the curriculum development unit and TAMCC did not develop a cohesive and
fluent working relationship during the life of the project.
Under this sub-component, local training for supervisors, principals and other relevant school staff was
provided on school management concepts and effective school operations. Principals who had received such
training expressed their satisfaction to the ICR mission and felt it had substantially helped them in their
management of the school. Need for further training was expressed during the school visits.
The MOE is currently reviewing the school supervision service.
2.3 Curriculum development: The project successfully strengthened the Curriculum Development Unit
(CDU) of the MOE.    CDU staff benefited from fellowships in the core subject areas (English,
Mathematics, Social Studies and Science). The returned fellows are at present engaged in reviewing and
developing the new curricula, training the teachers in the application of the curricular changes and
monitoring and supervising the implementation of the curriculum at school level. Since the completion of
their fellowships (1999-2001), they have provided training workshops to over 1,300 primary and secondary
teachers, principals, curriculum and education officers and other MOE staff (see Annex 10).
During interviews with the beneficiaries, they highly valued the content of the workshops but acknowledged
they had translated little of the content or of the new teaching methods to the classroom, due to scarcity of
instructional materials and equipment and lack of hands-on technical assistance in the classroom.
The CDU has been restructured and its staff increased from five to eighteen to assume all
curriculum-related responsibility, previously shared with the School Supervision Unit. Since 1997, the
CDU has developed a new lower secondary curricula for Forms 1 to 3 for Science, Mathematics and Social
Studies. It has participated in regional CXC curricula. School visits and interviews confirmed that the new
curricular changes at secondary level have filled a vacuum and recommended that a new curriculum for the
other subject areas would be very beneficial as well.
The project met its targets in providing mathematics and science kits, teaching aids and textbooks to 58
primary schools, and textbooks for all secondary schools. It supplied equipment for woodwork and metal
work to Boca Secondary School. During the ICR mission, it was observed that the kits and teaching aids
had been put to use in a significant number of schools, but its substantial integration in the teaching was
uneven among the schools, depending upon the attitude and commitment of the teachers and principals.
Impact on learning-will be appreciated in the future since the materials were distributed in the second half
of 2001. Greater coordination between the PMU and the CDU could make an impact on how effectively
these resources are used at school level.
Studies on the effectiveness of syllabi and curriculum were not undertaken before project closing.
2.4 Educational materials: This sub-component met its targets and has had one of the most positive
impacts on the education system. Two fellowships (equivalent to two staff years) were taken by the staff in
-9-



the Materials Production Unit (MPU). Expert services were hired to assist the MOE to design its policy for
preparing, publishing and distributing educational materials. With the construction of the new MOE
building, the unit's location improved significantly, allowing for the installation and use of equipment that
had been impossible to use due to lack of infrastructure capacity. Local training was provided by the
returned fellows to 20 curriculum officers and teachers in writing, illustrating and design of educational
aides.
The MPU successfully coordinated its work with other units within the MOE. MPU staff worked closely
with other units in the production of: (i) the statistical digest and the SPEED; (ii) a manual on test-taking
skills; (iii) flash cards for mathematics and a handbook for students and teachers on test taking techniques;
(iv) the production of the MOE Corporate Plan; (vi) the curriculum guides; (vii) a newsletter EDUVISION
to inform on developments in the education sector; and (v) the identification cards for MOE personnel.
Though training through the fellowships was highly valued, lack of consultation with the direct
beneficiaries meant that the content of one of the fellowships was redundant and lacked the
complementarities sought in the SAR. The work of the MPU has been hampered by: (i) delays in the
construction of the MOE's building that prevented the MPU staff from installing the equipment necessary
to produce the educational materials; (ii) lack of additional personnel to function effectively and (iii) delays
in hiring the expert services to support policy development in this area (the study was produced before
project closing).
Under the project, 45,086 texts were distributed to schools. Although there were delays in procurement, all
primary schools had received science kits and social science kits by project closing. They now are being
used, and schools have made additional requests for more kits. A new procurement policy for educational
materials has been developed and approved but is not yet under implementation.
2.5 Educational testing and measurement: The project successfully created a new Educational Testing and
Examinations Unit (ETX) and financed a series of activities and goods to support its development. By
project completion, two staff had benefited from fellowships in testing and measurement, though the
projected additional training for staff could not be taken before project completion. The unit has been
producing test results since 1998, and teachers have used these evaluations at the schools to assess and
address teachers' and students' weaknesses.
During the life of the project, a Minimum Com etencv Test (MCT) was piloted. The test was an important
part of the overall education reform effort to assess to what degree students have achieved the minimum
knowledge and skills stipulated by the curriculum. Its minimum mastery level is set at 50%. The MCT
was administered for the first time in 1999 to 2,023 (or 81%) Grade 4 students in Language Arts and
Mathematics. The test was administered to Form 3 in 2000. Its preparation was very participatory,
drawing on teachers for inputs and marking of the exams. The resulting test scores were very poor. Two
explanations can be offered. First, students have not been motivated to participate or do well on this test
because it does not have a selective purpose. Second, the results of the test revealed that the quality of
basic education is not as good as other indicators (repetition or drop out rates) would infer. The MCT have
resulted in reviews of the curriculum and the teaching content in many schools and in better coordination
between grades.
In 1997, the CEE was improved to add a diagnostic aspect to its traditionally selective character. A
written part was added to the multiple choice part. These changes allowed the MOE to have a deeper
knowledge of the skills acquired by primary school students. The ETX prepared a report that was
distributed to the schools, presenting the results and offering some degree of analysis of the students'
- 10 -



answers on the written report. Seminars were held with teachers and directors to discuss the results. The
reports have been seen to have great impact on teachers.
The School Leaving Examination (SLE) was improved as well, expanding the contents (introduction of
social studies) and giving students more opportmities to take the test and get a certificate before entering
the labor market.
The ETX aimed to train one person per school to take responsibility for testing aspects, but in reality
schools sent different people to each training session, so the objective of the training was not accomplished.
Training on testing has taken place in the schools upon demand. Most of the schools have requested this
training. Finally, the consultant's report was done fairly late in time.
Component 3. Expansion of Access to Schools.
ICR rating: Satisfactory
A new secondary school in Westerhall was constructed, furnished and equipped, and had enrolled 211
students in 2000. But to complete the school within budgetary allocations, the number of available spaces
was reduced to 315 from the 525 initial target. The Government has committed to expand the total number
of spaces and it has included the necessary provisions in the 2002 budget. The expansion of 140 places at
the existing secondary school (SAASS) was not undertaken under the project, though the Government has
indicated its intention to continue on with the expansion plans. The two primary schools, St. Theresa's RC
School in St. Davis and St. John's RC in Gouyave, were replaced and supplementary furniture and
equipment was provided. The principals of these schools have been very successful in collaborating with
the community and fund raising to build additional classrooms for preschoolers. During the project,
rehabilitations took place in ten primary and secondary schools.
Construction activities were seriously delayed, since it was the first project with the Bank and preparation
of bidding documents and other procurement activities took more time and effort than foreseen. Start-up
delays were significant (two years in the case of Westerhall and one year in the case of SAASS, which was
ultimately not included under the project). The principal factor that prevented SAASS from being financed
under the project was the lack of timeliness in preparation of the bidding documents by the external
consultants who were hired to prepare them. Delays of several months precluded the inclusion of this
expansion in a timely manner.
In general, schools have been acceptable and satisfactory to end users. The impact of the new buildings on
staff morale has been significant Teachers have been motivated by more resources and cleaner, larger
spaces. In the case of the primary schools, the impact on the quality of the learning environment was
significant. Before the new building was constructed, the primary school was divided between three
buildings.  In some, classrooms were just divided by blackboards, making teaching and student
participation more difficult. There were a number of issues raised about the adequacy of the design, the
quality of the work and its timeliness in the new and replacement schools and in the refurbished ones (in St.
Theresa, they were already experiencing classroom shortages; there were no dining room facilities and there
were problems with rain and the color of the vinyl chosen for the floors in a muddy area). There was a lack
of beneficiary involvement in the design and implementation of these activities. During the school visits,
most principals indicated they had provided information to the MOE on the schools' needs but had not been
involved in the final selection of improvements to be done at the schools, nor in its supervision and
certification of works completion. For instance, in BOCA secondary school, the project built a new
welding room to house new machinery. The teacher in charge indicated that the design of the new room did
not include space to house the old welding equipment needed to finish up some of the tasks done with the
- 11 -



new machinery.
Maintenance
The MOE has drafted a maintenance policy but it has not yet been approved. So there is no maintenance
capacity inside of any of the new or rehabilitated schools. Communities have mobilized to support the
schools' effort in maintenance (i.e. in Westerhall, where the local community was helping the school with
the creation of a vegetable garden, clearing surroundings, etc).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has significantly contributed to institutional development in the education sector, though some
of the achievements are still fragile. The numerous fellowships financed under the project have enhanced
capacity in the MOE in planning, testing and measurement, curriculum development, materials production,
data and project management. The local training given by the returned fellows had a positive impact and
spill over to the system of the knowledge and enhanced skills acquired abroad.
Evidence of the achievements are the improvements in the standardized tests, the production of Statistical
Digests, the work of the Materials Production Unit and a good quality long term sectoral development plan.
There has been a strengthening in the capacity to manage and develop projects financed by and in
collaboration with other institutions. Greater coordination among the MOE units (through regular meetings
of the Heads of Office with the Minister of Education) and between the MOE and the Ministry of Finance
has been achieved in the last few years.
The MOE has started to implement some of the recommendations of the Audit document in several areas.
This has been done mainly by the: (i) development of an effective filing policy; (ii) more frequent meetings
organized within departments, especially among the units that have undergone a reorganization; (iii) efforts
to disseminate information more effectively to the schools and to analyze the information; (iv) improvement
of the Ministry's public image, starting with the publication of a newsletter; (v) concentration of the
collection of the statistical information in the Statistics Unit of the MOE; (vi) incipient development of an
education management information system; (vii) enhanced efficiency and greater coordination in the
management of foreign assisted-projects by entrusting this responsibility to the PMU;  and (viii)
reinforcement of participatory processes for the preparation of strategic policies and projects for education.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
*   Construction bidding delays. The principal extemal factor that prevented the expansion of SAASS
from being financed under the project was the lack of timeliness in preparation of the bidding
documents. The PMU hired a firm of architects, among the best in the region, to prepare the bidding
documents but they were over committed and did not respond quickly. Delays of several months
precluded the inclusion of this expansion under the project. Unfortunately, the architects did not let the
- 12 -



GOG know of the delays in time to achieve a successful outcome before project closing.
* Infrastructure costs. The rising costs of inputs for construction and the underestimation of civil works
costs during project preparation had an impact on the achievements of the civil works of the project
Scope had to be limited to meet the approved budget and the achievement of expansion of access for
secondary places has been slowed.
*   Poor fit of fellows' programs. Another factor perceived to have affected project implementation was
the discrepancy between the advertising, information and actual content of the academic programs for
fellowships. This fact forced the fellows, in some cases, to take additional training in the form of
attachments and delayed the positive impact of the training.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
*   Appointment of senior staff. The MOE is dependent on the Public Service Commission to appoint
senior MOE staff. This creates serious delays in achieving permanent staff appointments. Such was
the case for the Permanent Secretary's position, for the PMU's manager and for other education
officers at lower levels.
*   Appointment and placement of fellows. The Government took too long to designate and place the
fellow to benefit from the financial management training. As a result, the returned fellow has only
recently started to provide key support to strengthen financial analysis and monitoring. This, combined
with delays in appointing key personnel for some units of the MOE (such as planning), has
significantly slowed the actual changes in the structure and management in the MOE.
*   Availability of sites for civil works. The site originaly planned for the new MOE building was
changed. Delays in procuring a new space and the natural difficulties of the new terrain significantly
pushed back the beginning of the works. In the case of the primary schools, there were delays in
providing land for their location, since it was not Government owned.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
*   Dual role of project manager. One of the main factors that slowed project implementation was the
dual role that the first project manager had with his Permanent Secretary position over a period of two
years. The burden of responsibilities he carried caused delays in project implementation. Fortunately,
a PMU manager was appointed a year before project closing. Her capacity and the strong Government
commitment made it possible to substantially speed the implementation.
*   Continuity of MOE staff. One positive factor for project implementation was that key staff in the
MOE, including the procurement and accounting officers, remained in their positions during the life of
the project. They received relevant training and returned to the MOE to apply their acquired
knowledge and skills. This had a positive impact on the project and will be a key factor in assuring
quality design and implementation of the project under preparation.
*   Importance of communications. A lack of fluid communication among different units of the MOE,
relevant for project implementation (example of CDU and School supervision or the EMU), affected a
substantial part of project implementation. Aware of this, the Heads of Department now hold fort
nightly meetings with the Minister of Education, and as a result, collaboration has improved. Better
communication or more proactive information sharing from top management at the MOE to
-13 -



stakeholders in the education sector would have encouraged wider ownership and awareness of the
project, as well as of the ongoing education reform efforts.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Initially, the SAR foresaw a total project cost of US$9.9 million with a contribution by the Bank of US$7.6
million and US$2.3 million by the Borrower. By project closing, the Bank contribution amounted to
US$6.9 million and the Borrower's to US$3.66 million. The project disbursement schedule was affected by
the substantially slow project start. Once project implementation accelerated, the disbursement pace
increased. The cost of civil works was substantially higher than projected in the SAR. This fact was
repeatedly pointed out by Bank supervision. Cost over runs were shown in Component 1 - Strengthening
of management and planning capacity of the MOE, and in Component 3 - Expansion of access to schools
(see Annex 2).  In the case of Component 3, the cost increases were due to late start-up and
under-estimation of the cost of civil works. Cost was based on preliminary drawings, not on actual
site-specific construction designs. In the case of Component 1, a difficulty arose when the initial site
projected for the MOE building was given an alternative use. The new site required additional work to
level the ground, an issue not taken into account at the time of project design.
The Borrower requested an extension of six months to finish execution of project actions. Project
execution and the use of funds accelerated during the last year of the project. Nevertheless, approximately
US$131,661 remained undisbursed at loan closing and is expected to be cancelled.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
ICR Rating: Likely
It is likely that the achievements reached during project implementation will be maintained for the following
reasons:
* The Ministry of Education has created four new units which are currently functional and staffed with
trained personnel. The MOE has committed to take the necessary steps to adequately fill those key
positions in the units that are understaffed.
*   The curriculum revisions have been brought to the schools and beneficiaries have deeply appreciated
the guidance and resulting improvements in quality.
*   A long-term development plan for the education sector - SPEED - has been developed to guide future
actions and investment undertaken by the MOE, including in its future collaboration with external
partners.
*   The Minimum Competency Test was initiated several years before project closing and it is used as a
tool to address deficiencies in teaching and learning in earlier stages, before selection examinations.
* The capacity to produce learning materials and textbooks within the MOE is installed and it has
fostered closer collaboration among the different core units of the Ministry.
* The Ministry has committed itself to provide the number of spaces for universal secondary enrollment
that could not be covered under the project (both for cost and timing reasons), and it has made the
necessary budgetary provisions.
The lack of an approved maintenance policy for school buildings could hamper the efforts to improve
school infrastructure in the long run.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
- 14 -



The project financed a large number of fellowships and training which has had a positive impact on
capacity building. Most of the fellows went back to their positions, streamlining into daily operations, to
some extent, the knowledge acquired. The units created under the project are an integral part of the project.
This has not meant an increase in the total number of professional personnel in the MOE, but rather a
reorganization to transition to a better managed organization that provides policy guidance and support to
the schools.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Bank engaged in a fruitful
dialogue with the MOE to jointly define the project objectives and actions to achieve them. The project
design was in accordance with country and regional objectives. The Bank made an effort to consult with a
wider representation of stakeholders from the education sector (principals and TAMCC) as well as other
ministries. One of the reasons for not giving a highly satisfactory rating is that the Bank was influenced by
the previously prepared project for St. Lucia, not totally tailoring the project to Grenada's particularities.
The other reason is the inadequate costing of the civil works component, based on drawings and not actual
construction sites, which resulted in a problem of funding during project implementation.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Bank supervision is rated satisfactory with some qualifications. On the positive side, the
Bank worked closely with the Borrower to support its efforts to successfully implement the project. Despite
having several task managers as project leaders, the dialogue during implementation was fluid and both
parts sought and found solutions to implementation bottlenecks (i.e. inclusion of one secondary school not
initially included in the SAR, changes in the profiles of the fellowships in the Ministry of Finance, etc.).
The Bank supervised the project regularly and this monitoring was perceived as one of the major factors
that helped achieve its targets and impact. Despite these, the Bank failed to provide stronger support in
procurement areas in the earlier years of the project. More technical assistance should have been given to
prevent the civil works from stalling, when the borrower's lack of experience with Bank procedures caused
delays in implementation.
The Bank agreed to a request for an extension to the closing date, supporting the Government's efforts to
achieve as much as possible after appointing a full time project coordinator who effectively speeded project
implementation.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactory. Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory for:
*   Good team work and good communications with the Government.
*   Flexible response to the country's needs
*   Fairly good supervision and extension of the life of the loan.
*   Close support in filing and financial aspects of the project.
*   Field visits and meetings with stakeholders and beneficiaries.
- 15 -



All of these elements created a positive relationship between the Bank and the Borrower that led to
successful project implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Ministry of Education and other ministries and actors involved in the preparation phase
actively collaborated with the Bank to define the project. They provided background studies and active
inputs to prepare the project. The Borrower failed to prepare a Statement of Policy before the end of the
preparation stage. It also fell short in more closely involving the final beneficiaries of project actions,
which would have reinforced the reform efforts undertaken by the Government and helped guarantee the
quality of project actions (i.e. school construction and renovation).
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory.  The Borrower regularly provided counterpart funds and, in addition, increased the
Borrower's contribution when the civil works activities in Components 1 and 3 incurred cost overruns.
Nevertheless, the Government adopted some actions that negatively affected project implementation: (i)
changing the location of the new MOE building; (ii) delaying grant approval for the surveys that allowed
construction of two of the schools; and (iii) delaying official appointment of MOE staff trained under the
project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The MOE showed strong commitment throughout project implementation. The Project
Management Unit took some time to reach an effective level of functioning. Lack of familiarity with Bank's
procedures and procurement rules prevented the PMU from complying with the schedule set in the SAR.
Though it took longer than planned, the PMU built institutional capacity to manage the project properly.
During the life of the project, a factor that affected the PMIYs performance was the lack of a full time
Project Manager for a significant time. The Project Manager was appointed Acting Permanent Secretary
and this delayed day to day project activities. Nevertheless, a new Project Manager was appointed for the
last year of project implementation. This appointment and strong MOE commitment allowed for* a
successful last year of project implementation.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The overall performance is rated satisfactory for the following reasons:
*   Overall Government's commitment to the education sector and the project as a pillar to support the
education reform efforts;
*   Continuity of the core personnel in the PMU during the life of the project;
*   Creation of key units in the MOE, fully institutionalized within the ministry's structure;
*   Efforts to undertake organizational and management changes;
*   Continuous steps to improve the quality of education and improve student achievements;
*   Achievement of project targets and objectives in almost all sub-components, despite slow project start
and difficulties with the continuity of the project manager.
8. Lessons Learned
Participation of stakeholders in project design is important. The people who will participate in project
- 16 -



implementation should be involved in the analysis of issues and provide.inputs for project design. This is
key to promote ownership of project activities and gain support for project interventions. It helps tailor
design and provide a source of quality control of project outputs. Bringing teachers on board early is key
for the success of education reforms. This was especially felt with the introduction of the new MCT and the
changes made to the CEE. Involvement of teachers during the planning stage ensures their support during
implementation and minimizes potential resistance.
Consultation to beneficiaries regarding the content of training is key. During the interviews with the
direct training beneficiaries, they unanimously highly valued the opportunity to be trained. Nevertheless, a
high number of the trained MOE staff and teachers felt they were not sufficiently consulted (sometimes not
at all) regarding selection of their training. In some cases, the training received was redundant for the unit
where the staff would work or it was not the most suitable training course, in the eyes of the trainees.
Provision of training is not sufficient to guarantee changes in behaviour. Training needs to be
accompanied by more technical assistance and hands-on work in the classroom to help translate the skills
acquired by teachers.
Better assessment of the Borrower's implementation capacity can prevent disappointments and help
design actions to reduce risks. An assessment of the implementation capacity of the Borrower to
implement project activities and to use Bank's procurement and financial reporting guidelines would allow
for a proper design of initial phases of project implementation and a realistic schedule. It would allow for
provision of start-up support before project effectiveness or at the very early stages of project
implementation.
Communication is paramount, especially when trans-unit tasks are involved. Promoting greater
internal communication among the different units involved in an education reform program is crucial to
reinforce the work individually done by each unit and to avoid situations where units are unaware of
activities underway that should be complementary. A communications strategy is relevant to convey the
overall efforts in education reform. Lack of such a deliberate effort might produce ignorance of the global
efforts to promote changes in culture, in accountability and to disseminate project results.
Cost of civil works should be based on site-specific construction designs and not preliminary
drawings or prototypes. When possible, the use of site-specific construction designs can prevent major
cost underestimates. If detailed construction designs are not available, sufficient physical and price
contingencies should be built into the cost estimates to minimize cost underestimates.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Ministry of Education contributed with an Evaluation Report, assessing the impact and the
implementation of the project, from the Borrower's perspective. Prior to the final version, the MOE held a
consultation with project beneficiaries and stakeholders that had participated in project implementation,
incorporating their comments into the final evaluation report. A summary.of the report is included in
Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
- 17-



10. Additional Information
None.
-18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Indicator               Target in SAR/Mid term review         Actual/latest Estimate
Improved management and
planning capacity of the MOE.
- MOE reorganized                 Creation of 4 new units which will be  Four new units established: Project
fully operative by 2001           Management Unit (PMU),
Educational Planning and Statistical
Unit (EPU), Educational Testing and
Exams Unit (ETX), and Educational
Materials Unit (EMU)
- Adjust teacher/student ratio
(baseline 1995)
Primary: 1/27                     Primary: 1/29                    Primary: 1/25(2000)
Secondary: 1/10                   Secondary: 1/23.5                Secondary: 1/23
- Decrease in the proportion of total
budget used for salary expenditure
(baseline: 1997)
Primary: 94.6 %                   Primary: 90%                     Primary: 94.83%
Secondary: 93%                    Secondary: 890/o                 Secondary: 88.5%
Improved quality of secondary
education
- Cormmon Entrance Examination
1995                                            2001
Highest score       n.a.                                            134.68
Mean score          n.a.                                           n.a
% of placements     44                                             50.3
- Reduction of repetition rates:
1995
Primary            11.2%          Primary: 8.9%                    Primary: 5.2%
Secondary          11.6%          Secondary: 9.3%                  Secondary: 1.3%
- Availability of appropriate     95% of school population         Survey not done
textbooks (Baseline: 75% of the
school population)
- Availability of instructional  Improved                          Improved
materials and equipment
- Teachers knowledge of appropriate  Improved                      Improved
curriculum and design of lessons
plans at each stage of child's
development
- Teachers use a variety of teaching  Improved                     Improved
techniques (from chalkboard to class
discussion, individual assignments
and group work)
Expansion of Access to
Schools
Increase gross enrollment in
secondary schools (base year 1995-
96: 63% of the 12-16 age cohort)  66%                              88%
-19-



Output Indicators:
Indicator              End of Project Target in SARIMid          Actual Output
term review
1. Strengthening Management
Capacity and Planning
New Ministry of Education         Construction completed by project  The new MOE was finished in the
constructed and occupied          closing.                         second semester of 2001. It was in
use by mid November, 2001.
MOE reorganized: establishment of 4  Units established and fully   Units established and fully
units, fully operationTal by project  operational.                 operational.
closing
Senior Staff at the MOE trained   Permanent Secretary and Chief    Permanent Secretary and Chief
Education Officer trained         Education Officer trained
Staff trained in key MOE units    Fellowships for 30 staff         All fellowships concluded
Long term development plan for the  Strategic Plan finished by 1996  A Strategic Plan for Educational
education sector completed                                         Enhancement and Development
(SPEED) finished and published in
January 2002
Integrated educational data system  First phase of the data system  Not concluded
developed                         launched.
Local staff trained by beneficiaries  Training of local staff      Training successfully carried out
of fellowships
2. Qualitative Improvement of
Basic Education
Four teacher educators trained    4 teachers trained.              5 teachers successfully trained and
teaching at TAMCC
Equipment for teacher training    Equipment provided               Equipment provided. Progress done
department of TAMCC science and                                    to resolve the existing problems at
language laboratories procured and                                 the science laboratory.
distributed
Staff at TAMCC training department  12 new staff incorporated      15 new full time staff in the teacher
expanded                                                           training department.
Fellowships on school supervision  2 fellowships completed         2 fellowships completed
carried out
Fellowships completed on curriculum  4 fellowships completed       4 fellowships successfully completed
design in core areas.
Science Kits and social studies for up  Kits provided to the schools  Science and social studies kits
to 60 primary schools procured and                                 provided to all primary schools
distributed
Supplementary instructional supplies  Materials supplied to about ten  Supplementary materials and books
provided to selected primary schools  schools                      provided to selected primary and
secondary schools
Fellowships for staff in the EMU and  2 fellowships completed      Fellowships completed
EXT carried out
Minimum Competency Test piloted   Piloting new tests               Tests successfully carried out in 1999
and 2001.
CEE improved                      n.a.                             Improvements in the test to use it as a
student assessment tool.
3. Expand Access to Schools
New secondary school constructed  Construction finished by project  New school fully operational and no
and another one extended          closing.                         expansion of the other secondary
school
Replacement of two primary schools  Two new buildings completed    Works successfully concluded.
Rehabilitations in selected primary  Selected schools rehabilitated  11 schools rehabilitated
and secondary schools
-20-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing,
Project Cost by Comnponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    ActualULatest  Percentage of
-       |     :   ; . . ! - , - . Estimiate.    Estimate;      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million   US$ million ' _,_._._._:
Component A. Strengthening Management and Planning
A. 1. Senior Management                               0.92            1.63           177
A.2. Planning and Development                         0.41           0.33             80
A.3. Project Management                               0.45           0.60            133
A.4. Financial Management                             0.07           0.04             57
Component B. Improving Educational Quality
B. l Teacher Training                                 0.60           0.30             50
B.2 School Supervision                                0.37           0.45            121
B.3 Curriculum Development                            0.40           0.62            152
B.4 Educational Materials                             0.60           0.96            160
B.5 Testing and Measurements                          0.45           0.34             74
Component C. Expansion and Rehabilitation of School
Places
Primary and Secondary Schools                         4.52           4.67             103
Primary and Secondary School Maintenance              1.13            1.22           107
Total Baseline Cost                                   9.92           11.16
Total Project Costs              9.92           11.16
Total Financing Required               9.92           11.16
- 21 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement
(Ap raisal Estimate and Actual) US$ million equivalent
ICB                NCB               Other            Total
Category                 SAR       Actual    SARI     Actual   SAR      Actual   SAR    | Total
Ctv1 Works               4.00      5.20      1.00     1.60      1.00             6.00    6.80
Goods                              0.16                         0.2     0.07     0.2     0.23
Equipment and  Furniture
Other Goods              0.2       1.3                         1.2      0.29     1.4     1.59
Other equipment, books,
educational materials, etc.                                                 _
Technical Asitance       _
Works/Design                                      _          - 0.6     0.59     0.6     0.59
Expert Services                                                0.5     0.37     0.5     0.37
Fellowships                                                    0.8     0.61     0.8     0.61
Local Studies                                                 0.1      0.85     0.1     0.85
Taining              _                                         0.3     0.12     0.3     0. 12
Maintenance
Total                    4.20      6.66      1.00     1.60      4.7     2.9      9.9     11.16
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
ActuallLatest Estimate     [Percentage of Appraisal
I 'I' ' Component            'Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Esdmate
l  Ba nk   Govt.      CoF.       Bank.       Govt.      CoF.     Bank    Govt.   CoF.
Component A.                1.52       0.34                  1.32        1.28                86.8   376.5
Strengthening
Management and Planning
A.1 Senior Management       0.70       0.22                  0.72       0.91                102.9   413.6
A.2 Planning and            0.36       0.05                  0.21       0.11                 58.3   220.0
Development
A.3 Project                 0.39       0.06                  0.37       0.22                 94.9   366.7
Management
A.4 Financial Management    0.06       0.01                  0.02       0.02                 33.3   200.0
Component B. Improving      2.02       0.39                  1.84       0.80                 91.1   205.1
Educational Quality
B.1 Teacher Training        0.48       0.12                  0.25       0.04                 52.1    33.3
B.2 School Supervision      0.28       0.09                  0.20       0.25                 71.4   277.8
B.3 Curriculum              0.34       0.06                  0.46       0.16                135.3   266.7
Development
BA Educational              0.53       0.06                  0.78       0.18                147.2   300.0
Materials
B.5 Testing and             0.37       0.07                  0.15       0.18                 40.5   257.1
Measurements
C. Expansion and            4.11       1.53                  3.80       2.06                 92.5   134.6
Rehabilitation of School
Places
C.1 Primary and             3.30       1.21                  2.96        1.69                89.7   139.7
-   J6., .  tL 42   .
-22 -



Secondary Schools
C. 2 Primary and        0.82      0.32               0.84      0.37             102.4  115.6
Secondary School
Maintenance
- 23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 24-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
January 1994               n.a  n.a
Appraisal/Negotiation
February 1995               1    Team Leader
April 1995                  2    Team Leader, 1 Ed. Specialist
Supervision
March, 1996                  2   Team Leader, I Ed.                S             S
Specialist
Dec. 1996                    3   Team Leader, 1 Ed. Spec., 1       S             S
FMS
May 1997                     2  Team Leader, 1 Ed. Consultant      S             S
October 1997                3   Team Leader, lFMS, 1 Ed.           U             S
Consultant
May 1998                                                           U             S
November 1998                5   Team Leader, 2 Ed. Specialists, I  U            S
Procurement Spec., 1 FMS, 1
Project Advisor
May 1999                     3   Team Leader, 2 Educ. Specialists  S             S
October 1999                4   Team Leader, I Ed. Specialist, 1   S             S
Project Assistant, 1 Architect.
April 2000                  3   Team Leader, 1 FMS, 1 Assistant    S             S
December 2000                2   Team Leader, 1 Ed. Specialist     S             S
June 2001                   2    Team Leader, I Ed. Specialist     S             S
ICR
June 2001                   1    Mission Leader                    S             S
December 2001               1    Education/Operations              S             S
Consultant
February 2002               2    Mission Leader, procurement       S             S
analyst
(b) Staff
Stage of Pioject Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation               n.a.                  12,000.00
Appraisal/Negotiation                    n.a.                  16,615.52
Supervision                              n.a.                 234,211.11
ICR                                        8                   28,000.00
Total                                    n.a.                 292,826.63
This table is based on the information currently available on SAP. The figures for identification/preparation and
- 25 -



appraisal/ negotiation are an estimate. The information system provides a total amount for these categories.
Amounts are not disagregated before FY98.
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substanfial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro policies                     O H OSUOM O N * NA
D Sector Policies                    O H *SUOM O N O NA
U Physical                           O H OSUOM O N O NA
OI Financial                         O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Institutional Development          0 H * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
Li Environmental                     O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
LII Poverty Reduction          O H OSUOM O N * NA
OI Gender                      OH   OSUOM      ON   *NA
OI Other (Please specify)      O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Private sector development         0 H O SU O M 0 N     0 NA
I Public sector management           0 H O SU O M 0 N     0 NA
OI Other (Please specify)            O H OSUOM O N * NA
- 27-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                              Rating
D Lending                                         OHS OS       OU    OhHU
D Supervision                                     OHS OS       OU    OHU
O Overall                                          OHS OS      OU    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
FII Preparation                                   OHS OS       OU     O HU
L Government implementation perfornance            O HS O S    0 U    0 HU
Li Implementation agency performance              O HS OS      0 U    0 HU
nI Overall                                        OHS OS       OU     O HU
The implementation agency performance is rated satisfactory, despite this project having been rated
unsatisfactory for project management for a year. The Government and the implementation agency made
strong efforts to correct this weakness, appointing a full time Project Manager, and project implementation
peaked during the last year of the project. The rating on the last PSR for project management was
satisfactory.
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Bank preparation documents
- Pre-Appraisal mission terms of reference, Aide-Memoire and Back to Office report. World Bank. 1995.
- Appraisal mission terms of reference, Aide-Memoire and Back to Office report. World Bank. 1995.
- Staff Appraisal Report. World Bank. November 1995.
Bank project implementation documents
- Project Status Reports (PSR). World Bank. 1996-2002
- Aide-Memoires of Supervision missions. World Bank. 1996-2001
Main documents prepared by the borrower during implementation
- "The Uses and Management of Fees Collected at Secondary Schools in Grenada". MOE. August 2001.
- "Audit of the Management and Administration of the Education System". MOE. December 2000.
- "Education Sector Diagnosis". MOE, September 2000.
- "Educational Costs and Financing". MOE. October 1999-2000.
- "External Efficiency of the Education System. MOE. August 2000.
- "Education and Training Implications of Economic and Social Development and Labour Market
Demands".
MOE. July 2000.
- "School Management". MOE. March 2000.
- "Access to Secondary Education". MOE. Feb. 2000
- "Teacher Effectiveness". MOE. December 1999.
- "Quality and Internal Efficiency of the Education System". MOE. December 1999.
- 29 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
1. INTRODUCTION
This final Evaluation Report on the Basic Education * Reform Project (BERP) was prepared in fulfilment
of the Government of Grenada's (the Borrower) responsibility towards the preparation of the project's
Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
Consistent with the Guidelines for completing ICR's, the report includes an assessment of project
objectives, design and implementation, and an evaluation of the Borrower's and Financiers' performance in
the development and implementation of the Project. Lessons learnt that may be relevant for the future, are
also included.
*(Defined as "... the primary grades and the lower cycle of secondary education (Grades 1- 9)" - Staff Appraisal Report No. 14945/ GRD, pg. 4)
1.1. PROJECT PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
The BERP was designed as "...the first stage (Emnphasis added) of a major reform of basic education aimed at
improved efficiency and effectiveness of the education system and at enhancing the quality of, and equity of
access to, basic education" (Staff Appraisal Report No. 14945 - GRD, pg. 18.)
The overall development objective of the project was defined as "... to accelerate human resource
development so that the requisite manpower can be produced to support the desired national economic
transition " ( Staff Appraisal Report, pg. 18)
The project was aimed at strengthening the planning and institutional capacity of the Ministry of Education
(MOE) to guide and carry out long-term development of the sector, while enabling it to initiate urgent
measures to address system-wide qualitative problems and expansion needs at the primary and secondary
levels.
The specific project objectives were to strengthen management in the sector; to improve the quality of basic
education; to expand access to secondary education; and to rehabilitate primary and secondary school
facilities.
The project objectives were also expected to serve as a catalyst for a major adjustment process, focused on
moving toward more reasonable primary and secondary teacher to student ratios, in line with ratios of
countries in similar economic and social circumstances. Such adjustment was deemed critical to ensure that
the resource allocations to public education responded more effectively to current and projected needs
including increased financing for system management and planning; more instructional equipment and
supplies; and proper maintenance of school facilities.
1.2. PROJECT COMPONENTS
The project had three (3) components, viz:
(a)    Strengthening Management and Planning of the Ministry of Education.
This component was intended to help to reorganise the management of the school system, upgrade staff and
- 30-



improve coordination among key MOE operating units; build capacity in sector planning and analysis and
formulate a long term sector development plan; strengthen central planning so that it could better assist and
support educational planning; Develop an integrated education data system comprising student, school,
financial and personnel information to facilitate improved sector analysis, administration and management
and policy making; establish a permanent project development and management capacity within the MOE;
including increased capacity at procuring school supplies and maintenance of physical plant; strengthen
financial management; and finance special studies to assist in formulating future policy and program
developments.
(b)    Improving the Quality of Basic Education.
This component was intended to enhance the quality of teaching and learning, through upgrading basic
teacher training and strengthening in-service training for teachers (with special attention to science,
mathematics and language arts) and, concurrently ensuring their more appropriate utilisation and
productivity through improved supervision and management; providing a better supply of instructional
materials and improved curricula (especially in core subjects); establishing an educational testing and
measurement capacity to monitor student and system performance; and building capacity in cost-effective
methods of preparing, selecting, producing, procuring and distributing educational materials.
(c)    Expansion of Access to Schools.
This component was intended to increase secondary school places in the most under-served districts to
reduce overcrowding and long distance travel and facilitate access to educational opportunities; replace
primary schools that are now housed in unsatisfactory buildings; and provide funding for urgently needed
rehabilitation of selected schools.
1.3. FINANCING
The project was to be financed by a Credit of US$3.80 million from the International Development
Association (CR 2804 - GRD), a loan of US$3.80 million from the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (World Bank) (LN 3970 - GRD) and a contribution of US$2.3 million from the
Government of Grenada.
The respective agreements were signed on February 28, 1996 and became effective on June 13, 1996.
2.     QUALITY AT ENTRY
Overall quality at entry was satisfactory.
The development objective was relevant and appropriate to Grenada's needs and the specific objectives
were consistent with the identified needs of Grenada's education sector and with the sectoral development
strategy being pursued by the Government.
The project components were also generally consistent with the identified priorities and needs of the
educational sector, although there could have been a stronger emphasis on technical and vocational skills,
especially at the senior primary level. This had been raised by the Grenada delegations during project
development, but had not been included in the project, due in part to the "prescriptive" approach used by
the Bank.
- 31 -



The phasing of project activities was ambitious, given the limited expertise in project management and
procurement matters within the MOE and the fact that the Project Management Unit (PMU) was a new
Unit that was being established by the project.
The project was designed with a very heavy "front-loading" of project activities - especially in the
fellowship and civil works components. 62.31% of the expenditures were scheduled for the first eighteen
(18) months of the project, including the completion of the MOE offices by December 1997. The ambitious
nature of this project design had been identified at project appraisal and a Project Management consultant
to assist at start-up was provided for in the project design. However, the PMU was expected to use the
procurement procedures that they were not familiar with, to recruit the Project Management consultant.
The net result was that the rate of project implementation was the opposite to that planned - low in the
early years and increasing during the second half of the project cycle. It reflected, in part, the initial lack of
experience of the PMU and their subsequent increases in effectiveness and efficiency over the life of the
project.
The relative allocation of the finances among the project components was deemed appropriate, given the
outputs defined for each component - 57% Civil Works; 24% -Improving Educational Quality; and 19% -
Strengthening Management and Planning.
However, the initial costing of the civil works component was inadequate. These costings were developed
on the basis of prototype designs and not on the basis of actual designs relevant to the sites to be used. As a
result, the scope of civil works had to be reduced significantly, as the actual site-based drawings for the
original scope of work were estimated to cost 40% - 60% higher than that provided for in the project While
some of these increases were due to price increases as a result of delays in project implementation, some
were also due to inadequate estimates during project design.
Overall quality at entry was therefore rated as SATISFACTORY.
3.     IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
3.1.   STRENGTHEN MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING CAPACITY
Most of the activities targeted under this component were started and completed with the exception of the
development of the integrated data system, the development of the long term sector plan, a training
attachment for one of the officers in the Examinations and Testing Unit and the development of policies on
Maintenance and Procurement. The MOE is committed to completing them during 2002.
The Ministry was also unable to retain three (3) of the Fellows that were trained - the Permanent Secretary
retired during the project, the Chief Education Officer was transferred to another Ministry and the
Statistician had to be transferred out of the Department.
The impact of the various activities under this component has had a positive impact on the management of
the MOE. This is evident in the more structured and participatory approaches been used in policy
development as evidenced by the process of background studies and stakeholder consultation used in the
development of the Strategic Plan for Educational Enhancement and Development (SPEED), the Master
Plan on Drugs 1998 - 2002, the development of the Early Childhood Policy and other sectoral initiatives.
The institutionalisation of fortnightly Heads of Department meetings, with ministerial attendance, is another
example of the strengthening of the management systems that has taken place.
- 32-



The positive impact is also evident in the significant improvement in the capacity of the PMU as evidenced
by its ability to accelerate project completion during the second half of the project, while undertaidng
responsibilities outside of the BERP, including the management of the Republic of China (ROC)-financed
Schools Rehabilitation Project and the European Development Fund (EDF)-financed expansion to the
Hospitality Arts Department of the TAMCC.
There were two (2) areas in which the strengthening of the policy formulation process did not have the
anticipated impact - the incorporation of more structured financial analyses into policy making and the
development of an integrated data system to inform decision-making. In the former, the Fellow completed
training in June 2001 and in the case of the latter the Fellow who had been trained had to be replaced due to
poor job performance. A new Statistical Officer was appointed in March 2001 and an Educational Digest
covering the period 1997 - 2001 was produced in February 2002 with Consultant support.
The commissioning of the MOE offices in November 2001 has had a positive impact on the MOE staff,
despite complaints from some departments concerning the space allotted and the location of the assigned
offices.
The MOE has also initiated deliberate policy action aimed at achieving the targeted teacher-student ratios.
The targeted national ratio of 1:23 had been achieved in the case of the secondary schools, but the ratio in
the primary schools was 1:25, compared with a target of 1:29. The data on salaries indicate that the
proportions of the recurrent budget that were expended to meet salary and other personal emoluments in
2000/01 have been reduced to 88.5% for the secondary schools compared with a target of 89%, but that the
proportion at the primary school level was 94.83% compared with the target of 90%.
The project also provided three (3) Fellowships to personnel from the Ministry of Finance - one in the
Economic Planning and two (2) in Social Sector Planning **. The Ministry of Finance has benefited from
these Fellowships with all three Fellows now occupying senior positions in the Ministry, including that of
Permanent Secretary. However, there is still a need to strengthen the operational linkages between sectoral
and national planning as the senior positions of the returned Fellows have meant that they are not in a
position to handle the day-to-day issues that arise. This has been acknowledged by the Ministry of Finance
and a decision has been taken to assign a specific officer to work on issues related to the Ministry of
Education.
The rating for this component is SATISFACTORY.
** (The onginal project provided for one social sector Fellowship. This was increased to two at the request of the Ministry of Finance which
substituted the second Fellowship in place of the provision of Expert Services in Economic Planning. Alternative arrangements had been made for the
provision of the expert services.)
3.2.   IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF BASIC EDUCATION
Most of the planned interventions for this component were implemented during the life of the project -
although there were delays in implementation in some instances.
The project has strengthened the teaching capacity of the Teacher Education Department of the T.A.
Marryshow Community College (TAMCC) through the training of five specialist teachers in the core
subject areas of English, Mathematics, Social Studies and science, and the provision of a Language
laboratory, equipment for a science laboratory and audio-visual equipment for teaching.
- 33 -



The impact of this increase in capacity has been mixed. There has been an increase in the use of creative
and interactive methods during lesson presentation at practice teaching but the actual pass rates of the
students in the UWI Certificate examinations show that the results for English and Mathematics have been
declining since 1999. Despite these results, the percentage of trained teacher at the primary level had
increased from 62% in 1997/98 to 70% in 2000/2001. The College has also initiated a secondary school
training program in 1999 and one batch of 33 students has already graduated. Of these, 24 were successful
at the UWI Certificate examinations.
The data on the other projected impacts on the educational system shows that repetition rates (5.2%
primary; 1.3% secondary) and dropout rates (0.7% primary; 1.1% secondary) have improved, and that
Common Entrance Examinations (CEE) performance in English and Mathematics has also improved in
2001. It is significant to note that the 2001 CEE students were those who participated in the first
Minimum Competency Tests (MCT) in 1999.
The project has increased the capacity of the Curriculum Development Unit by training four (4) Fellows in
this area, one (1) in each of the core subject areas. Since 1997, the Unit has developed new lower secondary
school curricula (forms 1 - 3) for science, mathematics and social studies and has participated in regional
reviews of the CXC curricula. The Unit has also been restructured, with all curriculum-related
responsibilities now being placed under the responsibility of the Unit.
The project also trained two Fellows in school supervision, one of whom is on the staff of the School
Administration and Management Unit (SAMU) of the MOE.
The impact of these interventions at the school level has been mixed. There is still a general absence of
effort to make classroom instruction more relevant, with the standard reason advanced being lack of
instructional materials and equipment. However, the lower secondary curricula for mathematics, science
and social studies that had recently been introduced have been described as "very useful". It provided
guidance in content for the lower secondary school in a situation where such had been lacking and teachers
had resorted to teaching from the textbook. It was recommended that lower secondary curricula for the
other subject areas would be just as beneficial.
The project has provided mathematics kits, science kits, teaching aids and textbooks to 58 primary schools,
equipment for woodwork and metalwork to Boca Secondary school, and textbooks to all secondary schools.
All of the support material provided has been put into use, but it is still too early to assess their impact as
they were only delivered in the second half of 2001.
The project initiated the establishment of a Materials Production Unit and trained two Fellows in the
requisite skills. The Unit has not had the initial impact envisaged due to space and equipment constraints in
the original MOE building. Despite this, it has already proven its usefulness and has provided a number of
services to the MOE including support to the Curriculum Division in the production of training materials,
support to the Examinations and Testing Unit in the production of tests and the production and publication
of a quarterly MOE newsletter, the MOE 2002 Calendar and the Corporate Plan.
The project initiated the establishment of and Educational and Testing Unit and trained two (2) Fellows in
the requisite skills. This Unit has already had a significant impact on the educational system. It has
redesigned the content of the Common Entrance Examinations and the School Leaving Examinations and
has produced evaluations of results since 1998. These evaluations have been used by teachers at the school
level to assess student and teaching weaknesses and to make necessary changes. It has also pioneered the
- 34-



introduction of Minimum Competency Tests (MCT) in English and Mathematics for the Grade 4 primary
students in 1999 and Form 3 secondary students in 2000. All of the schools interviewed reported that the
test content and feedback provided were very useful in assessing the development of their students at a
sufficiently early stage to enable them to make meaningful interventions. All of the schools also reported
having increased the coordination of the teaching in their lower classes, to ensure that students were better
prepared by the time they were eligible for the MCT's.
The overall rating for this component is SATISFACTORY. The project has achieved its basic objective of
increasing the capacity of the relevant departments to intervene positively at the school level and the
interventions have been initiated.
3.3.   EXPAND     ACCESS    TO   SECONDARY      SCHOOLS    AND    REFURBISHMENT       OF
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS
After significant delays, the project completed the construction of the Westerhall Secondary School (WSS),
although the number of places provided had to be reduced from the targeted 525 to 315. This reduction was
required to ensure that the school was constructed within the budgetary allocations contained in the project.
The Government has committed itself to expanding the school to the original designed capacity and has
made the requisite provisions in the 2002 Budget. The replacement of the primary schools - St. Theresa's
and St. John's RC. - was also completed after significant delay and the refurbishment of the primary and
secondary schools were completed during the period, although the process was initiated later than originally
scheduled. In all of the civil works at the school level, there were many complaints over the adequacy of the
design and the quality of work.
The expansion of SAASS and the enhancement of maintenance skills were not done. The Government has
committed to completing the SAASS expansion during 2002 and the relevant provisions have been made in
the Annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure.
A significant issue related to the civil works was the lack of beneficiary involvement in the design and
implementation of these projects. Such involvement may have reduced the design and quality problems that
occurred through this aspect of the civil works component.
Despite the shortcomings in design and quality, the learning environments in the two (2) primary schools
have been significantly improved - all classes have separate classrooms, there is less disruption of classes
as a result of activities in nearby classes, the physical environment is clean and safe, there is less noise
within the school compound, there are facilities for staff, and the general environment is much more
sanitary than that which obtained in the original buildings. The impact of the refurbishments on the learning
environments in the refurbished schools varied with the scope of work, the objectives that were targeted and
the quality of work done.
The sustainability of the physical facilities provided in the new secondary school, the replaced primary
schools and the refurbished primary and secondary schools would depend on the extent to which
appropriate maintenance practices are implemented at these facilities. At present, there are no systematic
maintenance practices in place.
The rating for this component is SATISFACTORY. This is based on a satisfactory rating for three of the
four sub-components, which together constituted the major proportion of project activity under this
component.
4.     BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
- 35 -



The Government of Grenada fulfilled most of its responsibilities as required by the project in a satisfactory
manner including the provision of US$1.39M more than originally committed to offset some of the cost
over-runs.
However, there were delays in some areas that facilitated project implementation e.g. granting approval for
the topographical surveys at St. John's R.C. and Westerhall Secondary, and the decision to change the
original location of the MOE building to accommodate the Ministerial Complex. The failure to appoint a
Clerk of Works to assist with civil works supervision as agreed during the mid-term review contributed to
the poor quality of work received on many of the refurbishment projects.
The Ministry of Education also fulfilled its responsibilities although there were there were delays
experienced in assigning the Project Manager, the Procurement Officer and Art Editor to their respective
duties on a full time basis. These were not effected until the second half of the project cycle.
The PMU took some time to operate at the levels of efficiency and effectiveness envisioned by the Project.
This was evidenced in the delays in initiating the civil works in the first two years of the project cycle,
problems with financial reporting, utilisation of the procurement guidelines and the like. By the end of the
project, the Unit had developed its expertise, as evidenced in it ability to successfully accelerate project
implementation in the second half of the project cycle while managing other projects.
The Project Advisory Committee (PAC) was appointed but did not function effectively.
5.     FINANCIER'S PERFORMANCE
The Financier fulfilled most of its responsibilities in a timely manner and was very flexible in its approach
to project implementation as evidenced by the decision to provide retroactive financing for the activities
implemented before the project became fully effective; the decision to include Boca Secondary School in the
project despite the significant costs that was being incurred for this school; the decision to reallocate funds
from expert services in economic planning at MOF to a second fellowship on social sector planning at the
request of the Ministry of Finance and the decision to finance new expert services in curriculum when such
a need was identified at the mid-term review.
The Financier was diligent in the monitoring of project implementation with all half-yearly visits being done
on schedule. This proved to be a very important component of project implementation and is probably one
of the major factors that influenced the ability of the project to achieve as much as it has. The Aide
Memoires prepared at the end of each visit were very useful in identifying tasks that had to be
accomplished to facilitate smooth project implementation. They proved very useful in assisting the
Borrower to plan priority activities for the upcoming periods.
The impact of this monitoring activity has raised the question of whether or not more frequent monitoring
(quarterly) may not have assisted during the first half of the project life cycle, given the relative
inexperience of the PMU at that time.
6.     FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
A number of factors affected project implementation and outcome. Those within the control of the
Borrower included:
Differences between content of advertised academic programs and actual content, which resulted
- 36-



in Fellows not acquiring the desired skills and thus having to undergo further tiaining. This delayed the
achievement of the positive impact which these newly acquired skills were expected to have on the sector
and hence the achievement of some of the developmental objectives.
*      Increases in market costs ofproject inputs. This, combined with initial under-budgeting of the cost
of civil works, resulted in the need to reduce the scope of works in the civil works component of the project.
This had negative implications for the achievement of the full impacts that had been targeted for this
component of the project
There were also a number of factors which were subject to Borrower control including:
*      Provision of Project Manager, Procurement Officer and Art Editor on a dedicated basis and a
Clerk of Civil Works for duration of civil works. The failure to ensure that the Project Manager,
Procurement Officer and Art Editor were available to the project on a full time basis resulted in delays in
project implementation during the first half of the project cycle. The failure to ensure that a Clerk Of Civil
Works was appointed, resulted in inadequate supervision of the civil works component, and consequent
poor quality work on some of the buildings.
*      Site selection and availability for civil works components. The delays in finalising the site for the
MOE offices and in ensuring the availability of the sites that were not owned by the Government for the
construction of the two new primary schools also contributed to the delays experienced in the civil works
component.
*      Internal arrangements to utilise trained Fellows upon their return. The fact that administrative
arrangements were not always in place for the returned Fellows to conduct the training that had been
envisaged compromised the achievement of the developmental impact that had been envisaged.
*      Late placement of Fellow in financial management. The late placement of this Fellow meant that
the strengthening of the financial analysis and monitoring that had been targeted was not realised.
*      Institutionalisation ofplanning function and capacity by appointment of relevant staff. The delay
in appointing the relevant personnel is slowing down the rate at the new management structures become
fully operational.
*      Provision of adequate working environment and supporting materials to adequately capitalise on
training of returned Fellows. This is especially true at TAMCC, where the returned Fellows have indicated
constraints of space and supportive materials and equipment.
*      Delays in processing payments by the Ministry of Finance sometimes created delays in the
expeditious implementation of project activities.
The factors that were subject to the control of the PMU included:
*      Beneficiary involvement in the planning stages. The failure to involve beneficiaries in the planning
and implementation compromised the quality and adequacy of some of the civil works done under the
project.
*      Better communication of project objectives and interventions. The availability of more
information about the project and its objectives at the school level could have created a more conducive
atmosphere at the school level for participation in project activities, especially in terms of making class
room teaching more interactive and creative.
*      Better coordination and communication within the MOE management team. The need for
improved communication and coordination was illustrated by the lack of knowledge of the CDU of fact that
the textbooks and instructional material that had been distributed. The institutionalisation of the reform
process needs mutually reinforcing inputs from all departments and such lack of coordination is detrimental
to such reinforcement.
- 37 -



7.     KEY LESSONS LEARNT
The key lessons learnt during project preparation were:
*      The need for the project implementation schedule to be based on the capacity of the
implementing institution. This was highlighted by the slow initial pace of project implementation and the
subsequent improvements in the rate of implementation as the PMU gained more experience in project
management.
*      The provision of start-up technical support may be useful in compensating for weak start-up
capacity.
*      The costing of civil works should be based on the actual situation and not on generic prototypes.
This would prevent the types of budget over-runs which were experienced and which resulted in the need to
significantly reduce the scope of the civil works.
The key lessons learnt during project implementation were:
*      The need to involve beneficiaries in project design and implementation. This could have
prevented many of the problems that were experienced with the adequacy of some of the civil works
undertaken under the project.
*      The need to adequately research academic program content before sending Fellows off on
training, especially where specific skill sets are being targeted.
*      The need to adequately orient Fellows prior to departure to ensure that they know what they are
being trained for and the expectations regarding the utilisation of their newly acquired skills upon their
return.
*      The need for internal communication and coordination between the various departments
implementing the project. This would prevent situations developing where one unit that was expected to
reinforce the work of another unit could not do so, as the former was unaware of the actions that had been
taken by the latter.
*      The necessity for strong quality assurance provisions in civil works contracts.
*      The need to support reform activities with a strong marketing and communication effort aimed at
creating a reform culture or climate within the sector in order to ensure that the changes being initiated will
be sustained after project completion. A project launch workshop would be a useful component of such an
effort, as would mechanisms for the dissemination of project information throughout the life of the project.
*      The need for more appropriate models for transfer of skills learnt e.g. school management,
teacher training.
*      The need for better matching of expert services provision with the requirements of the recipients
e.g. ETX, procurement for civil works.
*      The need for rigorous selection procedures for Fellowships to ensure that candidates have
appropriate attitudes and have the potential to remain with the institution long enough for the latter to reap
the benefits of the training.
*      The provision of training is not sufficient to ensure changes in behavior. Systems and strategies
have to be in place to ensure incorporation of the new skills into the Ministry's operations on a sustainable
basis and their transfer to the school level, where appropriate.
*      The scope of civil works that is done in a rehabilitation project should be sufficient to make a
positive impact on the learning environment in the schools. Some of the school indicated that while the
work done was useful, it did not impact significantly on the learning environment. This was relevant in
situations where the condition of the school had deteriorated to such a poor state that much more work
needed to be done to qualitatively improve the learning environment.
*     Project design should include a contingency to accommodate cost over-runs incurred as a result
- 38-



of under-budgeting by the project. This would reduce the need for one party (in this case the Government
of Grenada) to have the bear the burden of such over-runs.
- 39-



Additional Annex 9. Fellowship Progam and Expert Services.
Table I - Fellowship Pro m
PROJECT               PLANNED            SCHEDULED           ACTUAL NO.OF          ACTUAL               COMMENTS
SUB-COMPONENT               NO.OF            PLACEMENT               PERSONS         PLACE-MENT
PERSONS
Planning and Statistics
Senior Management                 2        June 1996                        2         1996                PS and CEO undertook
tamining at Harvard
University
Firamcal Analysis                 1        Sept 1996                        1         Sept 00-01
Education Planning                I         Sept 1996                       _                            Wasfiuded outside of
the Project
Education Statistics              I        Sept 1996                        I         Sept 1997
Economic Planning                 I         Sept 1996                       I         Sept 96-97          Resumed duties as the Head
of research Economic
Affalirs Dvision on
completion
Social Sector Planning            1        Sept 1996                        2         (1) 97-98           Resumed duties as
Permanent Secretary of
Finance
1) 98-99
Resumed duties as Head of
Project and Development
Corporahton
Project Management          _               _                                                             _        _       _
Project Manager                   I         Feb-Jun 96                      1          Nov-Dec 96         Now PS MOE
Attended 2 WB training
workshops and attended
trainmg in New Mexico
Umversity in Project
management
Project Accountant                1         Feb-Jun 96                      1          Nov-Dec 96         Still at PMU Attended 2
WB tramining workshops,
workshop m Microsoft
project, and was attached to
Dommica PMU
Procuremnent Officer              I        Feb-Jun 96                       1         Nov-Dec 96          Still at PMU Attended 2
WB tramining workshops,
workshop, Three days
attachment in Dommica
PMU
Teacher Educator                  4        Sept 96 (2)                      5         (3) 96-97            Presently at Teachers
Sept 97 (1)                                (1) 97-98           College TAMCC
Sept 98 (1)                                (1) 98-99
Secondary school Teachers         6        Sept 97- 98 (6)                  7         Sept 97- (6)         All are School Pnncipals
Sept 98-99 (1)                             Sept98 (1)          with the exception of Ms
Simon who is now EO for
Carnacou.
School Supervision                2        Sept 96 (1)                      2         99-00                Presently in MOE
Sept 97 (1)
Curriculum Development            4        Sept 96 (2)                      4         96-97                Presently in MOE
Sept 97 (2)
Production and Procurement of     2        Sept 96                          2         96-97                Presently in MOE
Education Materials
Education Testing and             2         Sept96                          2           96-97              Presently in MOE
Measurement
-40-



Table     Expert Services
PROJECT           PLANNED          SCHEDULED           PLANNED          ACTUAL         DURATION          COMMENTS
SUB-COMPONENT           NO. OF          PERIOD OF         DURATION         PERIOD OF
PERSON           SERVICE           DURATION         SERVICE
I        Jun -Aug 1996                                         Jan-Aug 2000    Final report on the
Management &                                              6 months         6 months                        Mm has been handed
Administration/ Audit                Jun - Aug 1997                                                        m
of the MOE
Educational Planning        I       June -Aug 1996                                         Aug-Dec 1999
6 months        6 months                         At the end of thus
June -Aug 1997                                                          consultancy the final
long range plan was
not accomplished
Project Management                  May- Dec 1996                                          July-Nov 1998   Well executed and
8 months        4 months                         final Project
Document was
submitted
Procurement Specialist              Mar-Apr 1996                                           Feb-may 1998
2 months         3 months                        Contract was well
executed
General Editing                    Jun - Aug 1996                          N/A             N/A              Fellows were tramined
6 months                                         in this area.
Jun-Aug 1997
Production of Reading               Aug - Sep 1997                                         Sept 2001- Jan  Draft reports have
Materials                                                 6 months         4 months        2002            been handed m. The
Min has since
submiitte comments
to Consultant for
follow up.
Educational Testing         I      Jan - Mar 1997                         Three (3) months Oct-Dec 2001    Final reports handed
and Measurement                                           6 months                                         in. This consultancy
Jan - Mar 1998                                                          has been well
executed
Economic Ptanning           I       Jun - Aug 1996                         N/A             N/A             N/A
Jun -Aug 1997          6 months
Auditing of Project  Gov't Dept                                                                            Consultancy has been
Accounts                             Annually             Annually         Annually                        well executed
Education Statistics                                                                                       Consultancy has been
I                             2 months         Three (3)                       well executed
months
Consultancy has been
School Plant Survey         I      N/A                    N/A              8 months        Jun 2000-March  well executed
2001
Curriculum                  I        N/A                  4 months         Two years       Oct 1999        All reports except the
Development                                                                                                final report have been
handed in
-41 -



Additional Annex 10. Training Workshops Conducted Under the Project
WORKSHOP THEME                     TARGET GROUP                   COMMENTS
Professional Development Workshop      Teachers of Primary School  Participants 120
Held 8th- 12th June 1999and
July 13-27 1998
Development in Maths, Science & Social  Teachers of Primary School  63 Participants
Studies                                                          Held 7th - 17th Dec. 1998
Curriculum Development - Science       Lower Secondary school    16th & 17th Mar. 1999
Syllabus
Workshop for teachers of French        Secondary School Teachers  Participants 28 Mar. 10, 1999
Workshop in Remedial Teaching                                    200 Participants 20 training days
August 2000
Teaching of Social Studies             Lower Secondary Teachers  20 Participants 25 - 31 Aug., 2000
Teachers of Spanish                    Secondary School Teachers  35 Participants 31st Oct., 2000
Strategic Corporate Planning           MOE Staff                 9-19 Oct. 2000
Information Technology                 Primary School Principals  25 participants 30 Oct., 2000- 28
Feb., 2001
Teaching of Social Studies in Carriacou  Lower Secondary Teachers  25 Participants 28-30 Nov., & 1 Dec.
2000
Teaching of Social Studies             Lower Secondary Teachers  35 Participants
Nov.1,2,8,9,1516,22,23; 2000
Teaching of Language Arts              Primary School Teachers   60 Participants Jan. 17,18,24, 25 &
Feb.1; 2001
Language Arts Workshop                 Primary School Teachers   40 Participants 14-16 Feb. 2001
Teaching Language & Literacy - Policies  Primary and Secondary   43 Participants 21-23 Feb. 2001
& Procedures for Vernacular Situations  School Teachers
Teaching of English                    Secondary Teachers        40 Participants 14-16 Mar. 2001
Testing & Measurement Workshop         Grade 4 Primary Teachers  52 Participants 4&5 Apr. 2001
Maintenance Workshop                   School Maintenance        25 Participants 18-19 Apr. 2001
Officers
Principals & Education Officers                                  29 Participants 23-27 Apr. 2001
workshop
Testing & Measurement Workshop                                   34 participants 7&8 June, 2001
Mathematics Workshop                   Secondary School Teachers  35 Participants 9-13 July, 2001
Diffusion & Implementation of          Curriculum and Education  30 Participants 3-7 Dec. 2001
Curriculum Innovations        _        Officers
Writing & Designing Instructional                                20 Participants 18-20 July, 2001
Materials
Teaching & Writing the MCT Exams                                 40 Participants 16-18 July, 2001
T&M Workshop C'cou                                               12 participants 30-31 Aug. 2001
School Mgt                             Primary School Teachers   83 Participants 14,18,19,20,21 Sept.
2001
Cur. Dev. & Education Officers                                   34 Participants 25 Sept. 2001
School Management                      Secondary Shool Teachers  18 Participants 4,6,18 Oct. 2001
,T&M Item Writers                       Secondary School Teachers  50 Participants Oct. 29&30; 2001
Item Writers                           Secondary School Teachers  50 Participants Nov. 7-8; 2001
-42 -



Additional Annex 11. School Visits - Issues Raised on Civil Works in Primary and
Secondary Schools
SCHOOL            WORK DONE               ISSUES RAISED              IMPACT OF
WORK DONE
1. Westerhall          New secondary    . Reduction in scope creating space  New school
Secondary              school          problems e.g. inadequate space to hold  with design
assembly                           capacity to
. Defects in plumbing, electrical works, accommodate
locks, drainage, cracks in building.  315 students
2. St. Theresa's R.C.  Replacement of   . No input into design            Improved
primary school   . Insufficient number of classrooms - 7  learning
provided when school has 8 classes.  environment for
Had to use staff room for additional  children and
class                              working
. No space for preschool department  environment for
which was left in old building     teachers
Poor external drainage
. A few cracks in building
3. St. John's R.C.    Replacement of    . No input into design - never saw the  Improved
primary school   plan.                              learning
. Poor design - leaking walkway, no  environment for
auditorium or space to hold assembly;  children and
no provisions for kitchen, lunch area  working
(had to be donated by private person);  environment for
no accommodation for pre primary  teachers
school
. Poor quality work - defective lights,
cracks in walls; poor locks; plumbing -
were rectified during the defective
liability period
4. Anglican High School Repairs to roof and . Poor quality work - leaking roof;  Cookery room
ceiling of and   sinks in cookery room blocked up;  easier to work
redesign of      reduced accommodation in science lab;  in
cookery room and  termites on one side of repaired roof.
science lab
5. Bishop's College   Not Visited
6. Boca Secondary     Construction of   . Poor location of technical rooms  Increased
new wing - 3     given need to bring in heavy       capacity and
additional       equipment and supplies; leaking roofs  facilities
classrooms,      in both labs; faulty plumbing; leaks in
Woodwork and     gas pipes in metal-works lab; electrical
metal labs with  problems; small labs
equipment; 2
science labs
7. Grenville Secondary  Repairs to      . Roof still leaking              Improvement in
windows, roof,   . Poor quality locks, screens, plumbing  physical
screens, banister in . Bannister not durable        condition of
corridor,                                           areas where
washrooms                                           work was done
8. Mc Donald College  Not Visited
-43-



SCHOOL            WORK DONE               ISSUES RAISED              IMPACT OF
WORK DONE
9. Mt. Rose SDA        Replace roof,   Initial leaks in roof that was rectified.
cupboards in     Work in laboratory insufficient to have
laboratory,      made an impact
screens and
niinor work in
toilets
10. St. Dominic's R.C.  Not Visited
11. St. John's Christian  . New Principal's  . Satisfied with quality of work done  Significant
Secondary              office, secretary's                                improvement in
office, staff room. .                              physical
Refurbished                                        condition of
science lab                                        school, working
. Replace wooden                                   condition of
oors                                              staff and
. Replace zinc                                      learning
roofing                                            environment of
teachers
12. St. Mary's R.C.    Repairs to roof of  . Roof still leaking           . Improvement
Junior and Senior  . Timing inappropriate and disrupted  in physical
departments and  classes                            condition of
oilets; repairs to  . No involvement in final decision  areas where
internal and                                        work was done.
external walls                                      Entire school in
need of repairs
13. St. George's       Roof of 3 buildings Poor quality work - roof still leaking,  Safety issues
Methodist              replaces; and   poor quality locks, metal side panels  resulting from
replace metal    not bolted back in place, poor quality  loose metal
ottom wall panels paint job.                       parts addressed.
with concrete                                       Entire school in
need of repairs
14. Woburn RC.         New offlce, staff  . Poor quality work - electrical  Significant
room, additional  problems which resulted in loss of  improvement in
lassroom and    photocopier, initial leaks in roof;  learning
kitchen          initial water seepage; no guttering on  environment
side and front of roof.            and working
. Inappropriate timing which disrupted  conditions
classes and required temporary
relocation
- 44 -



-45-









IMAGING
Report No.:         24023
Type:     tCR



