Page  1
November 19, 1997
Dr. Keith Mitchell 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Lagoon Road 
Saint George's Grenada
GRENADA:
Basic Education Reform Project (Credit 2804-GRD)
 
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Credit Agreement dated February 26, 1996, for the 
above-referenced Project (the Credit Agreement) between Grenada (the Borrower) and the 
International Development Association (the Association).  Whenever used in this 
letter, all terms defined in the Credit Agreement have the meaning therein set forth.
We are pleased to inform you that pursuant to the request of your Government, 
the Association hereby agrees to amend the Credit Agreement as follows:
1. Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by 
deleting the period at the end of the paragraph and inserting the following:  “; and 
(c) expenditures under contracts for consulting services costing less than the 
equivalent of: (i) $60,000 in the case of consulting firms; and (ii) $30,000 in the 
case of individual consultants.”
2. The second paragraph in Section II of Schedule 3 of the Credit Agreement is 
hereby amended to read as follows:  “Notwithstanding the provisions of the above 
paragraph of this section, the provisions of the above-mentioned guidelines requiring 
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, 
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: 
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than 
$60,000 equivalent each; and (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated 
to cost less than $30,000 equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior 
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts, to 
single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably 
determined by the Association or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value 
to $60,000 equivalent or above, in the case of consulting firms, or to $30,000 
equivalent or above in the 
case of individuals.”
Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
this letter in the space provided below.  This amendment letter shall be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  The provisions of this letter 
of amendment will be effective upon receipt by the Association of one such fully 
signed original.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By: /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos 
        Director 
        Caribbean Country Management Unit
Page  2
AGREED:
GRENADA
By: /s/ Keith Mitchell
        Minister of Finance
Date: November 26, 1997
