CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1237 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Fourth Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 15, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 15, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF INDO-
NESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Borrower has requested the United Nations Develop-
ment Programme (hereinafter called UNDP) and the Overseas Develop-
ment Ministry of the Government of the United Kingdom (hereinafter
called ODM) to assist in the financing of the technical assistance
required to implement Part D of the Project;
(C) UNDP has agreed to provide financing to the Borrower for
said purpose, in an amount equivalent to $200,000, and may in the
future provide additional financing to the Borrower for said pur-
pose, the contribution of UNDP to be provided in the form of a
grant (hereinafter called the UNDP Grant) (the technical assis-
tance so financed or to be financed by the UNDP is hereinafter
called the UNDP Project);
(D) ODM has agreed to provide financing to the Borrower for
said purpose, in an amount equivalent to about $60G,000, the con-
tribution of ODM to be provided in the form of a grant (herein-
after called the ODM Grant);


﻿-2-
(E) The Borrower and UNDP have requested the Bank to serve
as Executing Agency with overall responsibility for the implemen-
tation of the UNDP Project, in association with the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the
International Labour Organisation (ILO), and the United Nations
Office of Technical Cooperation (UNOTC), or in association with
such other institution or institutions as may be agreed between
the Borrower, UNDP and the Bank, for the detailed execution of
specific components of the UNDP Project;
(F) The Borrower, UNDP and the Bank intend to enter into
an agreement (hereinafter called the UNDP Project Document) de-
fining the scope and objectives of the UNDP Project and making
arrangements for its financing and implementation in particular
with regard to their respective responsibilities for the execution
of the UNDP Project, after having entered into a similar agreement
(hereinafter called the UNDP Preparatory Assistance Project Docu-
ment) in respect of the initial phase of the UNDP Project;
(G) The Borrower and ODM intend to enter into an agreement
(hereinafter called the ODM Agreement) regarding the terms and
conditions of the ODM Grant;
(H) It is intended that, to the extent additional financing
is provided by the UNDP for the technical assistance required to
implement Part D of the Project, over and above the amount referred
to in Recital (C), or financing for such technical assistance
becomes available from other sources, a corresponding amount of
the Loan will be cancelledJ and


﻿-3-
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-4-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "LAN" means Lembaga Administrasi Negara (National Insti-
tute of Administration), an agency of the Borrower organized and
operating under Presidential Decree No. 5 of 1971 of the Borrower;
(b) "Education Project Implementation Unit" means the proj-
ect implementation unit referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (i) of
this Agreement;
(c) "Manpower Project Implementation Unit" means the project
implementation unit referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of this
Agreement;


﻿- 5 -
(d) "LAN Project Implementation Officer" means the project
implementation officer referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (iii) of
this Agreement;
(e) "DPWP Support Staff" means the personnel of the Borrower's
Department of Public Works and Power referred to in Section 3.02
(a) (iii) of this Agreement;
(f) "Project Institutions" means the institutions of the
Borrower included in the Project, as further described in Parts
A, B and C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(g) "First Education Credit Agreement" means the Development
Credit Agreement No. 219 IND (Education Project), dated November 6,
1970, as amended from time to time, between the Borrower and the
Association; and
(h) "Project Coordinator" means the person appointed to
coordinate the provision of the technical assistance services and
fellowships to be provided under Part D of the Project, and the
implementation of Parts A, B and C of the Project.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or refer-
red to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-seven
million dollars ($37,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be finan-
ced out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-7-
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and educational practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation to the obligations of the Borrower
under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure
that sufficient liquid funds to cover the budgeted expenditures,
estimated to be made for the Project during each quarter, shall
be available to the Borrower's departments and agencies carrying
out the Project not later than the fifteenth day of such quarter.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the Proj-
ect, the Borrower shall:
(i)  for Part A of the Project, maintain the Education
Project Implementation Unit established in the Bor-
rower's Department of Education and Culture pursuant
to Section 3.02 (a) of the First Development Crelit
Agreement and expanded for the purpose of the Proj-
ect;
(ii)  for Part B of the Project, maintain in the Borrower's
Department of Manpower, Transmigration and Coopera-
tives the Manpower Project Implementation Unit es-
tablished for the purpose of the Project; and


﻿-9-
(iii) for Part C of the Project, continue to employ a
qualified and experienced Project Implementation
Officer in LAN and, in the Department of Public
Works and Power, experienced and qualified support
staff to assist the LAN Project Implementation
Officer in carrying out Part C of the Project.
(b) Subject to paragraph (c) of this Section, the Education
Project Implementation Unit and the Manpower Project Implementation
Unit shall be maintained and staffed with experienced and qualified
personnel, the LAN Project Implementation Officer and the DPWP
Support Staff shall be employed, and said Units, Officer and Staff
shall be charged with the carrying out of the Project, all in
accordance with the provisions set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, with duties and responsibilities as specified therein,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank.
(c) Before making an appointment to any of the positions
of Project Director, Project Co-Director, or Assistant Project
Director of the Education Project Implementation Unit or the Man-
power Project Implementation Unit, or to the position of LAN
Project Implementation Officer, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank the names and all pertinent information regarding the quali-
fications and experience of the persons considered for such ap-
pointment, and shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on the qualifications and experi-
ence of such persons.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.03. (a) In order to provide assistance in the de-
sign and the supervision of the execution of the civil works in-
cluded in the Project, the Borrower shall employ qualified and
experienced consultant architects acceptable to the Bank, upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) In order to carry out Part D.1 of the Project, the
Borrower shall take, in consultation with the Bank, all action
necessary to assure the availability of technical assistance ser-
vices to the Project Institutions by experts acceptable to the
Bank in such numbers (estimated at approximately one hundred-four
(104) man-years), with such qualifications, and serving under
such terms and conditions, as shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower unde-takes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards in-
cident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 11 -
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall establish, through its
departments and agencies responsible for carrying out the Project,
a monitoring system to collect data concerning the performance
of the Project Institutions in accordance with such guidelines
as shall be agreed with the Bank.
(b) By June 1 of each of the five consecutive years immedi-
ately following the start of operations of the Project Institutions,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank annual reports summarizing
and analyzing the information to be collected pursuant to the
foregoing paragraph of this Section.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, prior to com-
mencing execution of the civil works included in the Project for
any of the Project Institutions, all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction and
operation of the facilities for such Project Institution.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or -ith the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, Ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or permitting
the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that
effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or
other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect to
any lien created on assets of any of its political or administra-
tive subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.


﻿- 13 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of each
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project Insti-
tutions to operate in accordance with appropriate administrative,
financial, technical and educational policies and practices, and
with due regard to economy, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
their effective utilization, operation and maintenance.


﻿- 14 -
(b) The Borrower shall cause the buildings, furniture and
equipment of the Project Institutions to be adequately maintained
and shall promptly as needed cause all necessary repairs and re-
newals thereof to be made.
(c) Without limitation to the obligations of the Borrower
under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure
that each of the Mobile Training Units included in Part B.2 of
the Project will offer training courses during not less than ten
months in each year, and will receive sufficient annual budget
appropriations therefor.
Section 4.04. Within three years after the date of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare, in consultation with the
Bank, and thereafter implement, a program designed to assure an
adequate and continuous supply of qualified administrators and
teachers for the Project Institutions included in Parts A and B
of the Project.
Section 4.05. For each Technical Training Center included
in Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall establish and main-
tain an advisory committee consisting of representatives of local
industry, administrators of the Senior Technical Secondary Schools
served by such Center and officers of such Center, for the purpose
of assisting the director of such Center in adapting the curricula
of such Center to current local employment requirements of industry.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Senior Technical
Secondary Schools served by the Technical Training Centers included
in Part A.2 of the Project: (i) to submit candidates for admission


﻿- 15 -
to such Schools to special aptitude tests adequate to ensure that
only students with an appropriate interest and ability to receive
technical education would be admitted to such Schools; and (ii)
to submit their students to a final examination designed, inter
alia, to test, in accordance with the standards to be established
pursuant to Section 4.07 of this Agreement, the students' ability
to properly perform the practical tasks for which they were trained.
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all necessary measures
in order that the Technical Training Centers included in Part A.2
of the Project provide workshop practice to groups of about 15
students, and that the Senior Technical Secondary Schools included
in Part A.2 of the Project provide general classes for groups of
about 45 students.
(c) The Borrower undertakes to operate the Technical Train-
ing Centers included in Part A.2 of the Project on a double-shift
basis during at least five days per week.
Section 4.07. Within three years after the date of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall, through its Department of Manpower,
Transmigration and Cooperatives in cooperation with other competent
departments and agencies, develop a national program for testing
vocational skills based on uniform standards.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall cause LAN promptly to pre-
pare a plan for the civil service training to be provided by LAN
and, prior to the implementation of such plan, submit it to the
Bank for its comments.


﻿- 16 -
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall ensure that by July 1, 1980,
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank, the training of all technical teachers for Senior Secondary
Technical Schools shall be concentrated in the Technical Teacher
Training Faculties included in Part A.1 of the Project.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Presidential Decree No. 5 of 1971 of the Borrower re-
ferred to in Section 1.02(a) of this Agreement shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
directly the carrying out of Part C of the Project or the operation
of LAN in a substantial and adverse way.
(b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the UNDP Grant or the ODM Grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
UNDP Project Document, the UNDP Preparatory
Assistance Project Document, or the ODM Agreement,
as the case may be.
(ii)      Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to


﻿- 18 -
perform any of its obligations under the UNDP Project
Document, the UNDP Preparatory Assistance Project
Document, or the ODM Agreement, as the case may be,
and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
(c) Any of the agreements referred to in sub-paragraphs (b),
(c) and (d) of paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without
the prior agreement of the Bank, or the Borrower shall have failed
to perform any of its respective obligations thereunder.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following event is specified pursuant to paragraph
(h) thereof, namely that any event specified in paragraph (a) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date July 14, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Jakarta
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 21 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By Is/ Roesmin Nurjadin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S.S. Kirmani
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
Part A (Department of
Education and Culture)
(1) Civil works            4,250,000         40% (represent-
ing the estimat-
ed foreign ex-
penditure com-
ponent)
(2) Consultants'             350,000         40% (represent-
services                                ing the estimat-
ed foreign ex-
penditure com-
ponent)
(3) Furniture                250,000         30% (represent-
ing the estimat-
ed foreign ex-
penditure com-
ponent)


﻿- 23 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4)  Instruction          5,700,000         100% of foreign
equipment                              expenditures, or
95% of local ex-
penditures ex-
factory, or 65%
of local expendi-
tures ex-store
for imported
items
Part B (Department of
Manpower, Transmigra-
tion and Cooperatives
(5)  Civil works          3,600,000         40" (represent-
ing the estimated
foreign expenditure
component)
(6)  Consultants'           300,000         40% (represent-
services                               ing the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
(7) Furniture                150,000        30% (represent-
ing the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
(8)  Instruction          5,550,000         100% of foreign
equipment                              expenditures, or
95% of local ex-
penditures ex-
factory, or 65%
of local expendi-
tures ex-store
for imported
items


﻿- 24 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(9) Vehicles                 800,000         100% of foreign
expenditures, or
95% of local ex-
penditures ex-
factory
Part C (LAN)
(10) Civil works             950,000         40% (represent-
ing the estimat-
ed foreign ex-
penditure com-
potent)
(11) Consultants'            100,000         40% (represent-
services                                ing the estimat-
ed foreign ex-
penditure com-
ponent)
(12) Furniture               100,000         30% (represent-
ing the estimat-
ed foreign ex-
penditure com-
ponent)
(13) Instruction              50,000         100% of foreign
equipment                               expenditures, or
95% of local ex-
penditures ex-
factory, or 65%
of local expendi-
tures ex-store
for imported
items


﻿- 25 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
Part D (Technical
Assistance and Fellow-
ships) (including re-
lated equipment items)
(14) for Department        2,280,000         100% of foreign
of Education                            expenditures
and Culture
(15) for Department        2,110,000         100% of foreign
of Manpower,                            expenditures
Transmigration
and Cooperatives
(16) for LAN                 770,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(17) Unallocated           9,690,000
TOTAL      37,000,000


﻿- 26 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than the
Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made under Categories (2), (6) and (11)
(consultants' services) on account of expenditures incurred after
December 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equiv-
alent of $100,000;


﻿- 27 -
(b) expenditures under Categories (1), (3) and (4) (civil
works, furniture and equipment for Part A of the Project) and (14)
(technical assistance and fellowships for the Department of Educa-
tion and Culture), until the Borrower shall have entered into an
agreement satisfactory to the Bank with UNESCO, or another institu-
tion or institutions acceptable to the Bank, for the implementa-
tion of Parts D.1.(a) and D.2.(a) of the Project;
(c) expenditures under Categories (5), (7), (8) and (9) (civil
works, furniture, equipment and vehicles for Part B of the Project),
and (15) (technical assistance and fellowships for the Department
of Manpower, Transmigration and Cooperatives), until the Borrower
shall have entered into an agreement satisfactory to the Bank with
the ILO, or another institution or institutions acceptable to the
Bank, for the implementation of Parts D.1.(b) and J2.(b) of the
Project;
(d) expenditures under Categories (10), (12), and (13) (civil
works, furniture and equipment for Part C of the Project), and (16)
(technical assistance and fellowships for LAN), until the Borrower
shall have entered into an agreement satisfactory to the Bank with
UNOTC, or another institution or institutions acceptable to the
Bank, for the implementation of Parts D.1.(c) and D.2.(c) of the
Project.
(e) expenditures under Categories (3), (4), (7), (8), (9),
(12) and (13) (furniture, instruction equipment and vehicles),
unless the items for which withdrawal applications are submitted
shall be identified in the contract documents for such items by


﻿- 28 -
the same indices, codes and numbers as in the master lists prepared
in accordance with the provisions of Part A.4 of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement; and
(f) expenditures under Categories (10), (12) and (13), until
the Borrower has prepared and submitted to the Bank for its comments
a plan for civil service training by LAN in accordance with Section
4.08 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting


﻿- 29 -
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agree-
ment, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as,
in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Department of Education and Culture
The design, construction, furnishing and equipping of:
1.   New facilities for two existing Technical Teacher
Training Faculties (FKIT).
2.   Four new Technical Training Centers (TTCs) serving as
centralized workshops for about ten existing Senior
Technical Secondary Schools (STM).
Part B:   Department of Manpower, Transmigration and Cooperatives
1.   The design, construction, furnishing and equipping of
seventeen new Vocational Training Centers (PLK).
2.   The equipping of twenty-five new Mobile Training Units
(MTUs), of which five will operate in major urban areas
(U-MTUs) and twenty in rural areas (R-MTUs).
3.   The furnishing and equipping of an existing Vocational
Training Center (PLK) to serve as an Instructor Training
Center (ITC) for Vocational Training Centers and Mobile
Training Units.


﻿- 31 -
Part C:   LAN - Lembaga Administrasi Negara (National Institute
of Administration)
The design, construction, furnishing and equipping of new
training and auxiliary facilities, including library facilities
and about one hundred (100) boarding places, for LAN.
Part D:   Organizational Support and Fellowships
1.   The preparation of work and training programs for, and
the establishment or expansion and the initial operation
of, the Project Institutions, and for these purposes,
the employment of approximately one hundred-four (104)
man-years of technical assistance services, substantially
as follows (or as may be otherwise mutually agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank):
(a) for the Department of Education and Culture,
approximately 55 man-years of technical assistance
services;
(b) for the Department of Manpower, Transmigration
and Cooperatives, approximately 36 man-years of technical
assistance services;
(c) for LAN, approximately 12 man-years of technical
assistance services; and
(d) for the office of the Project Coordinator, approx-
imately one man-year of technical assistance services.


﻿- 32 -
2.   A program of fellowships of approximately sixty-one (61)
man-years of training abroad for local personnel employed,
or to be employed, by the Project Institutions or exer-
cising supervisory and administrative functions with
respect to the Project Inst tetions, substantially as
follows (or as may be otherwise mutually agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank):
(a) for the Department of Education and Culture,
approximately 41 man-years of fellowships;
(b) for the Department of Manpower, Transmigration
and Cooperatives, approximately 14 man-years of fellow-
ships;
(c) for LAN, approximately 6 man-years of fellow-
ships.
The locations of the Project Institutions, the approximate
gross area of the facilities to be constructed under the Project
for said Institions, and the approximate numbers of student places
to be created through the Project are set forth in the Annex to
this Schedule, as such Annex may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿-33 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
List of Project Institutions (Parts A,
B and C of the Project)
Approximate    Approximate
Gross Area of    Number of
Facilities to Student Places
be constructed   to be created
Type of                       under the Project   through
Institution       Location         (Sq. meters)    the Project
A.   Ministry of Education and Culture
FKIT           Padang               8,800         1,025
FKIT           Jogyakarta           8,800         1,025
TTC            Padang               8,500           540
TTC            Palembang            8,500           540
TTC            Jogyakarta          10,000           650
TTC            Semarang            10,000           650
B.   Ministry of Manpower, Transmigration and Cooperatives
PLK            Padang               4,200           255
PLK            Semarang             4,200           255
PLK            Cilacap              4,200           255
PLK            Surabaya             4,200           255
PLK            Banda Aceh           3,500           210
PLK            Pekanbaru            3,500           210
PLK            Jambi                3,500           210
PLK            Telukbetung          3,500           210
PLK            Pontianak            3,500           210
PLK            Bitung               3,500           210
PLK            Denpasar             3,500           210
PLK            Bengkulu             1,000            60
PLK            Palu                 1,000            60
PLK            Kendari              1,0%3            60
PLK            Kupang               1,000            60
PLK            Mataram              1,000            60
PLK            Ambon                1,000            60


﻿- 34-
Approximate    Approximate
Gross Area of    Number of
Facilities to Student Places
be constructed   to be created
Type of                       under the Project   through
Institution       Location         (Sq. meters)    the Project
U-MTU          Bandung               -               90
U-MTU          Jakarta               -               90
U-MTU          Semarang              -               90
U-MTU          Jogyakarta            -               90
U-MTU          Surabaya              -               90
R-HTU          Telukbetung           -               48
R-MTU          Jambi                 -               48
R-MTU          Pontianak             -               4,8
R-MTU          Bengkulu              -               48
R-NTU          Palu                  -               48
R-MTU          Kendari               -               48
R-MTU          Kupang                -               48
R-MTU          Mataram               -               48
R-MTU          Telukbetung           -               48
R-MTU          Banjarmasin           -               48
R-MTU          Pekanbaru             -               48
R-MTU          Padang                -               48
R-MTU          Bitung                -               48
R-MTU          Banda Aceh            -               48
R-MTU          Denpasar              -               48
R-MTU          Palembang             -               48
R-MTU          Ujung Pandang         -               48
R-MTU          Medan                 -               48
R-MTU          Ambon                 -               48
R-MTU          Banjarmasin           -               48
ITC            Singosari            -                -
C.   LAN            Jakarta             10,500        1,810


﻿- 35 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
November 15, 1982                                    405,000
May 15, 1983                                        425,000
November 15, 1983                                    445,000
May 15, 1984                                         460,000
November 15, 1984                                    480,000
May 15, 1985                                         500,000
November 15, 1985                                    525,000
May 15, 1986                                         545,000
November 15, 1986                                    570,000
May 15, 1987                                         590,000
November 15, 1987                                    615,000
May 15, 1988                                         645,000
November 15, 1988                                    670,000
May 15, 1989                                         700,000
November 15, 1989                                    730,000
May 15, 1990                                         760,000
November 15, 1990                                    790,000
May 15, 1991                                         825,000
November 15, 1991                                    860,000
May 15, 1992                                        900,000
November 15, 1992                                    935,000
May 15, 1993                                         975,000
November 15, 1993                                  1,015,000
May 15, 1994                                       1,060,000
November 15, 1994                                  1,105,000
May 15, 1995                                       1,150,000
November 15, 1995                                  1,200,000
May 15, 1996                                      1,250,000
November 15, 1996                                  1,305,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 36 -
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
May 15, 1997                                       1,360,000
November 15, 1997                                 1,420,000
May 15, 1998                                       1,480,000
November 15, 1998                                  1,540,000
May 15, 1999                                      1,610,000
November 15, 1999                                  1,675,000
May 15, 2000                                      1,745,000
November 15, 2000                                 1,820,000
May 15, 2001                                      1,915,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-37 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three
years before maturity                        1%
More than three years
but not more than
six years before maturity                2-1/4%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              4%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    5-1/2%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity                    7-1/4%
More than twenty-one years
but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity                              8%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 38 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Parts A.5 and A.6 hereof, contracts for
goods and civil works shall be awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.   Bidders for the civil works included in Parts A and C of the
Project shall be prequalified as described in part 1.3 of the
Guidelines.
3.   Before bids for civil works contracts are invited, the Bor-
rower shall, for each of Parts A, B and C of the Project, furnish
to the Bank for its coments a list of all contracts for civil
works to be let in carrying out each such Part of the Project,
indicating the estimated cost of each such contract and the forecast
timetable for award, and shall make such modifications in said
lists as the Bank shall reasonably request. Amendments to said lists
which may be made from time to time shall also be submitted to the
Bank for its concurrence.
4.   (a) Before bids for furniture or equipment contracts are
invited, the Borrower shall, for each of Parts A, B and C of the


﻿-39 -
Project, furnish to the Bank for its comments a master list of the
furniture and equipment required for carrying out each such Part
of the Project, indicating the specifications and the estimated
unit and total price of the items to be procured, and shall make
such modifications in said master lists as the Bank shall reasonably
request. Said items shall be indexed, coded and numbered for
identification with respect to the Project Institutions and loca-
tions for which they are to be used. To the extent practicable,
identical or similar items of furniture and equipment shall be
grouped, for each of Parts A, B and C of the Project, in lots esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more so as to permit
bulk procurement in accordance with appropriate technical and pro-
curement practices.
(b) Modifications of the master lists of furniture and equip-
--      ment prepared in accordance with the foregoing paragraph shall be
submitted to the Bank for its concurrence, except for such modifi-
cations which do not exceed the equivalent of $1,000 for any one
item or, in the aggregat. for each of Parts A, B or C of the
Project, 10% of the total proceeds of the Loan then allocated for
furniture and equipment for such Part.
5. (a) Items of furniture and equipment which cannot reasonably
be grouped in lots estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
more may be procured without recourse to international competitive
bidding, provided that (i) such items of furniture and equipment
shall be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with the Borrower's applicable procure-
ment procedures; and (ii) the aggregate amount of the contracts


﻿- 40 -
awarded pursuant to this sub-paragraph shall not exceed the equiv-
alent of $800,000 for Part A, $900,000 for Part B, and $100,000 for
Part C, of the Project.
(b) Contracts for items of furniture and equipment estimated
not to exceed the equivalent of $10,000 may be let without recourse
to international competitive bidding, provided that (i) such items
shall be procured on the basis of reasonable and competitive pro-
curement procedures, including but not limited to the solicitation
of not less than three price quotations; and (ii) the aggregate
amount of the contracts awarded pursuant to this sub-paragraph
shall not exceed the equivalent of $70,000 for Part A, $80,000 for
Part B, and $50,000 for Part C, of the Project.
6.   The civil works included in Part B of the Project shall be
carried out under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with the Borrower's
applicable procurement procedures. Bidders for such contracts shall
be required to prequalify as described in part 1.3 Lf the Guidelines.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for directly imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;


﻿- 41 -
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Indonesia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)  Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Indonesia.
(3)  Group C: bids offering any other goods.
eP


﻿- 42-
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)  If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under
paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Parts A and C of the Project, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿-43 -
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A.2 of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as
part of the information for qualification, such information, in-
cluding details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower
pursuant to criteria set by the Bank, a particular firm or group
of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents
shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the Bor-
rower, responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)       bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii)      bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said


﻿- 44-
procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of pre-
qualified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference
under Part C above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification and for such eligibility shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the
applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for furniture and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and with
respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
other bidding documents, including, in the case of furniture or
equipment contracts, the specifications for the items to be pro-
cured, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications
in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.


﻿- 45 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish
to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
which, in the case of contracts for civil works, shall have been
prepared by the consultants referred to in Section 3.03(a) of this
Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the recommendation for award and, in the case of
contracts for civil works, the recommendation for award of the said
consultants, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together


﻿- 46 -
with the analysis of bids, recomendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿-47 -
SCHEDULE 5
Project Implementation
A.   Education Project Implementation Unit
The Education Project Implementation Unit referred to in
Section 3.02(a)(i) of the Loan Agreement, shall operate under
the direction of a Project Director and a Project Co-Director.
The Unit shall be directly responsible to the Director General
of Higher Education in the Borrower's Department of Education
and Culture for the proper carrying out and supervision of Part A.1
of the Project, and to the Director General of Primary and Secondary
Education in said Department for the proper carrying out and sup-
ervision of Part A.2 of the Project. The Unit shall operate in
close cooperation with the other competent departments and agencies
of the Borrower. Its staff shall include, besides the Project
Director and the Project Co-Director, an Assistant Project Director,
a Project Architect, two Technical Educators, a Procurement Officer
and an Accountant. Except for the Project Director and the Project
Co-Director, such staff shall be assigned on a full-time basis to
the Unit, unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank. The Education Project Implementation Unit shall be provided
with adequate technical and clerical support staff, facilities,
equipment and logistical support.
B.   Manpower Project Implementation Unit
The Manpower Project Implementation Unit referred to in Sec-
tion 3.02(a)(ii) of the Loan Agreement, shall operate under the
direction of a Project Director. The Unit shall be directly


﻿- 48 -
responsible to Director General of Manpower Development and Utili-
zation in the Borrower's Department of Manpower, Transmigration
and Cooperatives for the proper carrying out and supervision of
Part B of the Project, and shall operate in close cooperation
with the other competent departments and agencies of the Borrower.
Its staff shall include, besides the Project Director, an Assistant
Project Director, a Project Architect, two Vocational Training
Specialists, a Procurement Officer and an Accountant. Except for
the Project Director and one Vocational Training Specialist, such
staff shall be assigned on a full-time basis to the Unit, unless
otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. The Manpower
Project Implementation Unit shall be provided with adequate technical
and clerical support staff, facilities, equipment and logistical
support.
C.   LAN Project Impelementation Officer and DPWP Support Staff
The LAN Project Implerentation Officer referred to in Section
3.02(a)(iii) of the Loan Agreement, shall be directly responsible
to the Chairman of LAN for the proper carrying out and supervision
of Part C of the Project with the assistance of the DPWP Support
Staff. The LAN Project Implementation Officer and the DPWP Support
Staff shall perform their duties in close cooperation with the
other competent departments and agencies of the Borrower. The LAN
Project Implementation Officer shall be employed on a full-time
basis, unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
The LAN Project Implementation Officer and the DPWP Support Staff
shall be provided with adequate technical, clerical, and logistical
support.


﻿-49 -
D.   Responsibilities of the Education Project Implementation Unit,
the Manpower Project Implementation Unit and the LAN Project
Implementation Officer and the DPWP Support Staff
The Education Project Implementation Unit, for Part A of the
Project, the Manpower Project Implementation Unit, for Part B of
the Project, and the LAN Project Implementation Officer and the
DPWP Support Staff, for Part C of the Project, shall be responsible,
inter alia, for the following:
(a) administration of the contracts with the consultant
architects;
(b) preparation of a detailed and comprehensive implementation
chart based on the Critical Path Method (CPM) or other similar method,
for establishing a timetable of coordinated activities and respon-
sibilities for the carrying out of all aspects of the Project.
This chart shall be prepared as the first step in implementing
the Project, and the Bank shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to comment on the timetable, and any modifications thereof, before
they are put into effect;
(c)  preparation of architects' briefs, relating educational
specifications to realistic costing and functional design, and
technical advice to the consultant architects;
(d) arrangements for review and approval by the appropriate
authorities of the Borrower of plans, reports, specifications and
other material submitted by the consultant architects;


﻿- 50 -
(e) review of the architectural drawings to ensure that
space provisions and educational specifications are treated
correctly so as to minimize changes after acceptance and approval
of tenders and during construction;
(f) preparation of the lists of all contracts for civil
works to be let in carrying out the Project, referred to in Part
A.3 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement;
(g) preparation, with the assistance of technical educators,
specialists, or advisors, as the case may be, of lists of all
furniture, instruction equipment and vehicles required by the
Project Institutions for carrying out the Project, and of the
master lists of such furniture and equipment referred to in Part
A.4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement;
(h) procurement arrangements, including the preparation
of bidding and contract documents, the evaluation of bids and the
recommendation of awards for contracts for civil works, furniture,
instruction equipment and vehicles;
(i) monitoring of Project implementation, including regular
inspection of construction sites, to ensure that (i) the civil
works are meeting established performance standards, and are in
accordance with the contract documents, and (ii) all furniture
and equipment meet prescribed specifications and are installed
properly;


﻿-51 -
(J) preparation and administration, in consultation with
the appropriate authorities of the Borrower, of the technical
assistance services referred to in Section 3.03(b) of the Loan
Agreement;
(k) liaison with the Bank and with all appropriate authori-
ties of the Borrower in matters relating to the implementation of
the Project;
(1) setting up of an accounting system, keeping of Project
accounts, and preparation of interim evaluations and financial
statements, all as required to comply with the provisions of the
Loan Agreement;
(m) preparation of applications for withdrawals from the
Loan Account; and
(n) evaluation of the progress of the Project and preparation
of quarterly progress reports for submission to the Borrower and
the Bank.


