Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8306
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2374-PAK)
DECEMBER 29, 1989
Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
Its 4    i mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



T1I WORLD BANK                 F            US ONY
W.wtgon. O.C 204)3
U.S A
O1k. to Owu-egm.jal
December 29, 1989
MEMORANDUM .TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Pakistan
Second Toot Oil and Gas Development Proiect (Loan 2374-PAK)
Attached, for information. is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Pakistan - Second Toot Oil and Gas Development Project
(Loan 2374-PAK) prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document ha mentned disufibution and may be used by maptents only in the petfonoune
of theif olffcia duume Its contents may not otherwoe be dialosed without Woti Bank uthainon.



FOR OMCIIl usE ONLY
PAKISTAN
SECOND TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2374-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface . .........................................................                                       i
Evaluation Sutmary .                   ..............................................                    i
PART I
1.  Project  Identity  ......................................
2.  Background  ............................................
3.  Objectives  and  Description  ............................                                 2
4.  Project  Organization,  Implementation  and Results                           ......       4
Project Organization and Management ....... .........    4
Implementation  ............                  ..........................               5
Project  Results  ...........                 ..........................                5
Economic  Re-evaluation  ..............................                                 6
5. Project Sustainability ...                                                  ;               6
6.  Performance  of  the  Dank  and  the  Borrower  ..............    7
7.  Consulting  Services  ...................................                                  8
PART II
Borrbwers'  Comments  .......................................                                   9
PART III
1.  Related  Bank  Loans  ....................................                               11
2.  Project  Timetable  .....................................                                12
3.  Loan  Disbursements  ....................................                                13
4.  Project  Implementation  ................................                                14
5.  Project  Costs  and Financing  ...........................                               14
6.  Project  Results  .......................................                                16
7.  Status  of Covenants  ...................................                                17
8.  Use  of  Bank  Resources  .................................                              19
I
i
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Its                          .  be



PAKISTAN
SECOND TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2374-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second toot
Oil and Gas Development Project in Pakistan, for which Loan 2374-PAK in the
amount of US$ 30.0 million was approved on Jax.aary 10, 1984.  The loan was
closad on June 30, 1988, two years behind schedule. U1$ 11.2 million of the
loan amount was cancelled and the last disbursement was on July 11, 1988.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Energy Operations Division,
Country Department I, of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part
II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in July 1988, and is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Project Agreements; supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank
memoranda.
I



ii
PAKISTAN
SECOND TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2374-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.          The Second Toot Oil and Gas Development Project was the second
Bank operation in Pakistan's petroleum production subsector in support of the
Government's energy sector development strategy (Paras. 2.01-2.02). It
comprised the drilling of four production wells, the strengthening of
infrastructure facilities, and technical assistance (Para. 3.02). The project
was estimated to czst about US$ 63.8 million, of which approximately 47Z (US$
30.0 million) would be financed by the Bank loan (Part III, Sections 5A and
5B). The project was implemented by the Oil and Gas Development Corporation
(OGDC), the national oil company.
Obiectives
2.          The objectives of the project were to accelerate oil and gas
production from the Toot field and to optimize the future development program,
to continue the process of institution-building of OGDC initiated earlier, and
to consolidate gains achieved under the Bank-financed first Toot Development
Project (Para. 3.01).
Implementation Experience
3.          The project scope was changed considerably during implementation.
OGDC was not able to resolve the problems associated with gas processing at
the nearby Meyal LPG plant. As a result, the project scope was modified to
include a small LPG plant located at the field. However, this idea was
finally dropped in view of the low level of oil and gas actually produced.
Construction of the remaining infrastructure facilities and strengthening of
workshop facilities was undertaken only to the extent required (Paras. 3.03-
3.05).
4.          Drilling work on the last well was delayed considerably, in view
of the disappointing production performance of the first two wells and due to
technical problems. Project completion was delayed by about two years and the
closing date was extended twice, initially up to June 30, 1987 and then to
June 30, 1988 (Paras. 4.06-4.07).
5.          Procurement under the project proceeded without any major problem
and standard Bank practices were followed. The work done by consultants and



iii
contraLtors was satisfactory (Para. 7.01). Total project cnsts were about 39Z
lower than forecast. due mainly to reductions in project scope and lower-
than-expected costs for well drilling and consultant services (Part III,
Section 5A). The unutilized loan amount of US$ 11.2 million, representing
37.3Z of total loan, was cancelled at the request of the Borrower.
Results
6.          The project was not successful in achieving fully its oil and gas
production objectives. The failure rate, three poor producers out of four
wells drilled, was much higher than expected. Although significant
improvements were achieved in OGDC's technical capability and drilling
performance, OGDC has yet to establish a financial management system
acceptable to the Bank (Paras. 4.10-4.14).
7.          Because of much lower production of oil and gas, and the collapse
of crude oil prices in the international markets, the project has negative
financial and economic returns, in spite of substantial savings in capital
cost (Para. 4.15).



PAKISTAN
SECOND TOOT OIL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2374-PAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Part I
1.  Proiect Identity
Project Name:  Second Toot Oil and G,as Development Project
Loan No     : 2374-PAK
RVP Unit    : Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Country     : Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Sector      : Energy
Subsector   : Petroleum
2. Background
2.01    In the decade before project appraisal in 1983, Pakistan's energy
strategy relied heavily on the rapid development of its indigenous energy
resources, particularly natural gas mad hydroelactricity, thereby limiting oil
imports. Despite efforts to implement this strategy, the country remained
heavily dependent on imported oil to meet its primary energy needs. In
1980/81, oil imports totalled US$1.6 billion, equivalent to 261 of total
imports. Studies had further shown that without major policy initiatives, net
oil imports would double by FY89 and quadruple by FY93. This would impose
pressures on the balance of payments that could'seriously impair the country's
prospects for continued aconomic growth. In its dialogue with the Government
of Pakistan (GOP), the Bank constantly stressed the critical importance of
accelerating the exploration and development of domestic energy resources to
substitute for imported oil, and the need to encourage greater private sector
participation in the implementation and financing of energy investments. With
the emerger e of gas shortages and higher imported oil costs, GOP recognized
the urgency of these measures and instituted a range of policy reforms which
were expected to result in a considerable improvement in the energy situation
in the medium term.
2.02. To achieve a better balance in the energy demand-supply relationship,
GOP identified the following key measures:
(i) energy management and conservation programs to limit the growth
in demand through price and non-price policy instruments;
(ii) accelerated development of proven oil and gas fields and
intensified exploration for additional domestic energy reserves
including oil, gas and coal; and
(iii) increased participation of private companies in the financing and
implementation of energy investments.



-2 -                                                VA
It is in pursuit of the second of the above measures that the subject project
was conceived. It was prepared by the oil and Gas Development Corporation
(OGDC) with assistance from consultants and Bank staff.
3.  Obiectives aid Description
3.01    The main objectives of the project were:
(i)     to accelerate oil and gas production from the Toot field and
optimize the future development program;
(ii)     to improve OGDC's oil field development practices through the
provision of specialist oil field services;
(iii)     to continue the institution-building efforts initiated unde- the
first Toot project (Credit 867-PAO) to strengthen OGDC's
management and technical capacity; and
(iv)     to improve OGDC's financial rp-ltion and thereby reduce reliance
on budget subventions from GOP.
3.02    The project, as originally envisaged, was to comprise the following
components:
(a)  Well Drillina and Completion.  Four development wells to be
drilled and completed at the Toot field, each approximately 4,500
m. deep;
(b)  Oil and Gas Separation Facilities.  One three-stage oil and gas
separation system and three single-stage test separators to be
installed in the central oil and gas treatment plant and at two
satellite locations;
(c)  Gas Compressors.  Approximately 3,000 BHP of gas-driven
compressor capacity to be installed in the central oil and gas
treatment plant, to collect and pressurize the separated
associated gas to pipeline inlet pressure;
(d)  Down-hole Safety Equipment.  Down-the-tubing safety valves and
control accessories to be installed on 14 Toot wells;
(e)  Infrastructure.  This to include:  (i) the construction of 20
miles of all-weather road between Toot oil £ield and Gharib Wall,
including a causeway on the Nullah River crossinI;
(ii) the construction of approximately 32,000 ft of office and
residential buildings at the existing Toot camp; and
(iii) the construction of field water supply system including
water pipeline, pumping station and approximately 70,000 gallons
of water storage tanks;



-3-
(f)  Field Support Facilities.  The existing facilities at the field
workshop to oe upgraded by installing new oil field workshop
machines; and the field transport fleet to be upgraded by the
addition of new heavy-duty oil field transport equipment; and
(g)  Engineering, Technical Services and Consultancy.  Included in
this item were specialized oil; field services such as contract
drilling, drilling management, well logging, testing, cementing
and completion, tubular goods inspection, well fluid sampling and
bottom-hole pressure measurements; engineering and design of
subsurface safety equipment and oil and gas separation and
compression system and consultancy for the re-evaluation of the
Toot reservoir.
Chanaes in Proiect Scope
3.03    At appraisal, it Was expected that the associated gas at Toot would
contain substantial amounts of liquefiable fractions which would yield
approximately 3.2 million barrels oE Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) and Natural
Gas Liquids (LNG). A skid mounted iPG plant -as to be installed at Toot
Field. However, due to OGDC's inability to complete negotiations with
suppliers, it was then thought that the most economic solution for recovering
these gas liquids would be to construct a 16 mile, 10 to 12 inch diameter gas
transmission line between Toot and Meyal (at an estimated cost of US$3
million) to transport the associated gas and to use the excess LPG and NGL
extraction capacity at the Mesal gas processing plant owned by Pakistan Oil
Fields Limited (POL), a predominantly private company producing oil at Meyal.
Finalization of arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the utilization of
the Toot associated gas was agreed upon as a condition of loan effectiveness.
Accordingly, negotiations between GOP, OGDC and POL on the matter were
started. However, in view of lower-than-expected gas production from the Toot
field, the subproject was found economically non-viable and was dropped.
Instead, OGDC compressed, dehydrated and purified the associated gas and sold
it to SNGPL, a public sector gas utility serving Northern Pakistan.
3.04    In the course of project execution, OGDC requested Bank approval for
changes in project scope (to be funded by cost savings) consisting of
components such as (i) drilling of a (new) step out well; and (ii) workover of
some of the currently poor-producing wells (four under Toot I) to include
reperforation and fraccing. if necessary. The Bank mission agreed to
recommend acceptance of Bank management of (ii) above on the ground that the
workover would increase the productivity of the field but did not agree to (i)
since, in its opinion, the available data from the four wells under the
project did not support a step out well. The mission further cautioned OGDC
not to undertake the drilling of a step out well until reasonable predictions
of reservoir development could be made after completion of the reservoir
engineering study update (See para 6.02).
3.05    To allow the workover of the old wells, the loan was amended in August
1984 to include the necessary stimulation of and other work on appropriate
wells in Toot field.   Five wells (four drilled under Toot I and one drilled
under the srbject project) werc ultimately worked over.



Pro ect Organization, Implementation and Results
Proiect Organization and Management
4.01    The arrangements for project organization and management were
carefully reviewed by OGDC and the Bank at appraisal. It was agreed that it
would be best to continue the same arrangements of the first Toot project.
These had worked satisfactorily, particularly over the last eighteen months of
the first project, despite some initial difficulties. The project
arrangements are described below.
4.02    OGDC's General Manager, Pro4ectSe  would have responsibility for
managing the project. This responsibility would include the coordination of
the entities in charge of impler,entation (OGDC's own operatiag departments.
service contractors and the field management), monitoring the implementation
and the reservoir studies. The project was organized as a separate unit under
a Director. The day-to-day management of drilling and production operations
was to be the responsibility of OGDC's Drilling and Production Departments,
respectively. To ensure close cooperation with service contractors and to
facilitate urgent decisions, especially in drilling, a senior OGDC engineer
was stationed in the field. OGDC's operating departments were strengthened by
the addition of CIDA-financed Canadian consultants in the fields of project
management, drilling, production and reservoir engineering and oil field
materials and equipment. CIDA and OGDC also confirmed that they intended to
co4 nue these arrangements throughout project implemenLtation.
4.03    Lacking the necessary manpower required for engineering and design,
OGDC relied almost entirely on outside consultants for these aspects of its
operations. The most recent reservoir and field development study for Toot
was prepared by an expatriate firm of consultants and, given the limitations
of the available data. it was considered to be adequate and conservative.
However, it needed to be updated as soon as enough data became available from
the reservoir monitoring program. OGDC agreed to use the services of
qualified international consultants for both the collection of the reservoir
data and the evaluation of the results. These studies and services were
financed under the Bank loan. The desigv. of oil storage tanks and the
Toot-Dhulian oil pipeline which was initiated under the first project was to
be revised and updated by qualified consultants satisfactory to OGDC and the
Bank.
4.04    The construction of roads, well locations, oil storage tanks and
buildings (not financed by the Bank) was entrusted to qualified local
contractors. OGDC itself installed field surface production facilities, under
the supervision of the suppliers' personnel when needed, using its field
operating personnel who had adequate experience in the construction of field
facilities.
4.05    The drilling of the four Toot development wells was undertaken by
OGDC's Drilling Department using OGDC's relatively new American-made diesel
electric rigs and its own drilling personnel. However. OGDC rigs assigned to
project wells were managed by qualified expatriate drilling contractors who



- 5 -
supplied the high-level qualified personnel needed for drilling operations
(drilling superintendents, tool pushers, drillers, mechanics and
electricians). These were the same arrangements as in the first Toot project
and were considered to be .he most economic and efficient way of implementing
the drilling program. Qualified international oil field service contractors
were utilized for special operations such as well logging. testingf cementing
and perforating, tubular goods inspection, pressure surveys, reservoir fluid
sampling and drilling mud control. The location, depth and drilling program
for Bank-financed Toot wells were to be submitted to the Bank for approval on
a no-objection basis.
Implementation
4.06    Initially there was a delay of about eighteen months in project
implementation due to unforeseen technical problems encountered in drilling
the four development wells and also in deciding on the most economic way to
utilize the low pressure associated gas. The location of three of the four
development wells to be financed under the project had been decided prior to
loan effectiveness in May 1984. The disappointing production from the first
two development wells, however, caused considerable rethinking within OGDC not
only about the location of the fourth well but more broadly concerning the
eventual production potential of the reservoir itself. Consequently the
drilling of the fourth well was seriously delayed, which in turn delayed the
study of the reservoir, since information from the fourth well was itself part
of the input into the study.
4.07    Furthermore, resolution of the problem of utilization of the low
pressure associated gas took much longer than expected (para 3.03). Much
time was originally spent by OGDC in negotiations with an expatriate firm for
=he construction of the LPG plant. Then OGDC opted for a turnkey job with a
local firm, with technical assistanci to be provided by an expatriate firm.
Ultimately, in view of the lower-than-expected gas production. it was decided
to drop the construction of the LPG plant and instead to install compressors
to increase the pressure of the gas and to sell it to SNGPL.
4.08    In order to inerease the overall productivity of the Toot reservoir,
the workover of five wells (four drilled under Toot I and another drilled
under the subject project) was implemented at a substantial cost.
4.09    The other components of the project were implemented satisfactorily.
Proiect Results
4.10    The project's outcome was disappointing since its results turned out
to be below expectations. During production testing, all four wells proved to
be producers but subsequently, due to rapid formation pressure depletion and
complicated formation behavior, three of the four wells ceased production.
Presently, only one well is producing about 290 BD of oil and 0.2 MMCFD of
associated gas as against the original objective of the project to increase
oil production by 1,600 BPD and gas production by 5 MMCFD and to produce LPG
of 60 tons per day.



- 6 -
4.11    After the poor performance of the first two wells, at the insistence
of the Bank. a much improved seismic database, through oew acquisition and
reprocessing of such data utilizing state-of-the-art computer facilities
installed at OGDC, was uniertaken. This data was correlated with the
production performance of all the wells in the field. The result of this
exercise enabled OGDC to better delineate the extent of the fteld and thus
target any future drilling of the productive reservoir sands.
4.12    A reservoir monitoring program was established and the reserv-'ir study
has been updated by ezpatriate consultants. The study revealed that the
reservoir characteristics are not as good as was expected on the basis of the
results from the earlier vells, due to the small size and discontinuous nature
of the reservoir sands.
4.13    While the production results have been a disappointment, better
success has been achieved on the institution-building side. The technical
staff of OGDC have significantly improved their professional skills as a
result of the project. For example, one of the wells under the project was
drilled in about eight months, a great improvement over the period of four
years taken to drill the first well under Toot I Project. In addition, this
reservoir monitoring program has enabled OGDC to further understand the Toot
reservoir and this program is now routinely used in the other fields. Also
the in-house capability of OGDC in well completion, production data analysis
and reservoir engineering have been improved.
4.14    In the f$nan cal and accounting area, the project failed to ac!ieve
the expected institutional objective, although corrective action is now under
way. The loan covenants required OGDC to establish a financial management
system satisfactory to the Bank. Action on this issue was delayed by OGDC.
However it has now appointed outside experts to establish such a system by
December 31, 1989 and also to produce final Oclean' audited accounts by
December, 1991.
Economic Re-evaluation
4.15    At appraisal, the economic rate of return for the project was
estimated to be 31Z. The assumptions underlying this computation regarding
production of oil and gas have proved to be far off the mark, with the result
that the net benefits of the project are now negative. With three wells
having stopped production and only one of the four still producing, but at a
much lower than estimated level, the economic rate of return is now estimated
to be about a negative 10X. Clearly, the project has failed to achieve the
expected results.
5. Project Sustainability
5.01    The net benefits resulting from the project are now negative, because
despite lower capital costs the production of oil and gas has been much below
expectations. The best that can be hoped for is that production will not fall
off stil. further, thereby further reducing project benefits. Nevertheless,
for Toot Oil Field as a whole, project consultants estimate that total
Original Oil-In-Place (OOIP) is about 132 million barrels. Oil recovery by



- 7-
primary depletion over the next 21 years is calculated to be 14 million
barrels or 10.7Z of OOIP.  However, under the recommended secondary recovery
technique of partial pressure maintenance by gas injection, oil recovery could
increase to 13.3Z of OIP or an increment of 3.5 million barrels to the
primary depletion method for a total of 17.5 million barrels.  The Bank has
advised OGDC to update the reservoir study on the basis of the most recent
production history available prior to implementing any future secondary
recovery program.
6. Performance of the Bank and the Borrower
6.01    The performance of the Bank from project identification through
project completion was satisfactory except in the assessment of project risk.
While it is arguable whether the Bank can be faulted, the failure rate (three
poor producers out of the four wells drilled) was much higher than expected.
This has now been identified to be due to the previously unidentified
irregularities in reservoir development in the particular area of the Potwar
Basin. While the Bank had noted the probability of one failure out of the
four wells, the poor performance of t Tee out of the four was totally
unexpected. The question will remain whether the Bank associated only normal
risks with investments in the development of an already producing field or
whether it did not take adequate account of the preceding project (Toot I).
Apparently the Bank attributed the relatively low success rate under the
preceding project, where only five out of eight development wells drilled
could be completed as producers more to the difficulty in drilling and
completing the wells than on the heterogenity of the oil reservoir. In
hindsight, the Bank's assumption were somewhat overoptimistic, although it
should be noted that the project was based on a proven reservoir with several
producing wells, a reservoir study by a reputable consultant and the need to
step up domestic oil prodaction was acute.
6.02    On the positive'side, the Bank displayed mature judgment in its
refusal to approve imprudent actions when, faced with a large saving of over
US$12 million, OGDC had pressed for further development drilling. The Bank
then cautiously advised OGDC against such premature action and further
drilling, until completion of the reservoir study when a reasonable prediction
could be made of reservoir development.
6.03    So far as OGDC's own performance is concerned, it was mixed.  To its
credit, it showed alertness when it faced some unpleasant situations. For
example, the disappointing production from the first two development wells
caused considerable rethinking within OGDC, not only about the location of the
fourth well but more broadly concerning the eventual productive potential
itself of the reservoir. Consequently, during the later stages of project
implementation OGDC was able to establish an in-house capability for
monitoring reservoir performance through regular collection and analysis of
production data, in order to identify early on, any changes in reservoir
behavior during field development. In the financial and accounting area,
however, OGDC did not display the same alertness. OGDC was seriously
deficient in complying with the financial covenant which required it to
establish a financial management system satisfactory to the Bank. However,
through bilateral assistance from CIDA and USAID it has now appointed outside



- 8 -
experts to establish such a system by December 31, 1989 and also to produce
final Ocleanw audited accounts by December 1991. OGDC must take the blame for
the desultory handling of this issue.
7. Consulting Services
7.01    The performance of the consultants and contractors appointed under the
project, both expatriate and local, was satisfactory.  The foreign consultants          U
provided OGDC with technical assistance in areas where it lacked the necessary
expertise.                                                                              -
I
I



-9-
PART II
BORROWER'S COMENTS
F     pro jNazir Ahaid Zati.h
Section Of ficer  !7ovfmnofPakistan
Toel  824169                     OF FINANCE AND
CONOMIC AFFAIRS
aEt0 Ju1.    ECON    IC AFFAIRS DIVISION)
reIgwum:ECONOMIC             _        laabad dw, 29th July,  )989.
Telex: ECoW No 05434
Subjcts- Second Toot Oil -Dve.lopsmat Project
(I.2374-PAK) Project Completion Reaort.
Dear Kr. Rashid 4is,
Please rofor to your letter dated 2n  July,
1989 on the above subject and find enclosed   copy of
the Ministry of Petroleum  & Natural Resources' Office
Memorandum No.9(IO)/89-Dev-I, dated the 26th July,
1959 containing their comments en the draft Project
Completion Report.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(Nazir Ahmed Iehtiaq)
Mr. Rashid Aziz,
Projects Adviser,
World Sank Resident Mission,
I lamabad.



- 10 -
go. 9(1O)/e9-D*v-2
Government of Pakistan
NMnistry of Petroleum & Natural Resource.
Islamabad the 26th July 1989
ubjects SECOND TOOT OIL DEVEUAPOENT PROJECT
(IN 2;74.-PAX ) PROJECT COHPEION 1EPORT.
BANK COMMENTS:                  The undersigned is directed to reter to EID's
0.1t. No. 1(3)WS/88-IV dated the 9th July, 1989 on the
above subject.
(AMENDED)         2.       VW  coneurre to pert I and 2In of the said report as
prepared by the Bank (copy attacbed) except that under Part I,
Section 4.10 the target for gas production was an increase of
.5 IHOD and not 15 Mftefd.
MO COMMENTS)    3.          In Part lII  of the report the figure of the amount surrend-
ered in US S 11.2 million and not 08 S 9.5 million as was stated
by OO00 earlier. These corrections have been incorporated in
Part II ofthe report.
(NO COMMENTS)    4.       ODC with concurrence of the World Bank is taking
necessary stepe to introduce proper finaucial mangement systemes.
The easares bein= taken are;
a) Couplete physical inventory of storeo by speoial
teams of OGDC.
b) Appintment of international auditore by 31 October
fir  in required to produce finanUial
statements and audit reports for ODC to international
standards of accounting and auditing the report is
to be produced for fiscal year ending 30 June 1990
and 30 June 1991.
(COMPLIED)        5.        The World Bank any be informed accordingly.
(8afdar Sqbal tilak)
'U  ESonooto Affairs Division                 Section Offioer
9^'   (fr. I*ir Abmad Ilbtisq 8.0)             Telet.825634



- 11 -
EMISTAN
SECOND TQOT Q!i DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAM 2374-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Part III
1.   Related Rank Loans
Year of
Loan  itle                  Puroose           Aoorvmal           Status                  Comments
1. Credit No. 867-PAK   To increase Toot oil         Dec. 1978    Completed in           This was the first loan/
Toot Oil and Gas      production; and to                       Dec. 1982 with a    credit to OGOC.  It was
Development Project  strengthen the implement-                 two-year delay        a partial success. Oil
ation capacity of OGOC.                  (mainly because of  production through 1982
of the difficult   is only 42X of the
drilling             appraisal estimate.
conditions of the   However. the operational
Toot field).         and project implement-
ation skills of OGOC
staff have been consider-
ably improved. A PCR
for the project has
also been prepared.
2.  Loan 2351-PAK         (a) to accelerate the      Oct. 1983    Project completed   The drilling of explor-
Petroleum Explora-   exploration of natural                    and loan closed on  atory and appraisal/
tion-Project          gas in Pakistan; and                     on Mar. 31. 1989.   development wells has
(b) to enhance the                                            been successful.
chances of joint-venture                                      Efforts to promote joint
exploration by both                                           venture exploration have
foreign and domestic                                          also met with success to
private oil conranies.                                        judge by the response to
seminars held recently by
GOP with consultants
assistance.
3.  Loan 2553-PAK         To accelerate the          May 1985      Project ongoing.    The provision of
Petroleum Resources  exploration for and.                      Current loan         incentives under this
Joint Venture         development of Pakistan's                closing is June 30. project for attracting
Project               petroleum  resources.                    1989.                foreign and domestic
companies to invest in
exploration. such as
a new gas producer
price and modest
minimum work programs
have resulted in the
foamation of 16 new
joint ventures.



- 12 -
2. Prolect Timetable
Date           Date                Date
Itm                                  bxPlaned  Revised   Actual
-   Identification
- Preparation
-   Appraisal Mission                                             Jan. 1983
-   Loan Negotiations                                             May 10-13, 1983
-   Board Approval                                                Jan. 10, 1984
-   Loan Signature                                                Feb. 13, 1984
-   Loan Effectiveness                                            May 15, 1984
-   Project Completion        Dec. 31, 1985   Dec. 31, 1986       Mar. 31, 1988
-   Loan Closing              June 30, 1986   June 30, 1987       June 30, 1988
C-omments
2.01     The project was originally conceived as a combined oil development
and gas exploration project with an estimated cost of US$177.3 million
equivalent (FE cost of US$107.6 million) and proposed Bank financing of US$84
million. The major issues as discussed at the Issues Paper-Decision stage
were as follows:
(a) The justification for the Bank's involvement in the project
itself had to be established. The appraisal mission felt that
in view of the urgent need to explore for and develop additional
gas reserves, a job in which international oil companies were
not much interested, and to increase oil production by continued
development of the Toot field, the Bank's participation in the
project was justified;
(b) with cofinancing of about US$17.5 million for the tubular goods
and US$6.1 million to be provided by GOP/OGDC, the Bank should
provide US$84 million to complete the foreign cost financing;
(c) plans satisfactory to the Bank for use of the associated gas
produced from Toot should be finalized as a condition of
disbursement;
(d) a satisfactory reservoir monitoring program should be agreed at
negotiations and the initiation of the agreed program should be
a condition of disbursement;
(e) the locations and drilling program of the new Bank-financed Toot
wells should be approved by the Bank;
(f) the exploratory drilling program should be approved by the Bank,
with semi-annual joint reviews of OGDC's exploration program and
priorities, the emphasis at all times being to attract increased
private sector participation to complement OGDC's efforts;
(g) to effectively implement the exploration components, and
particularly the regional Basin studies and promotion of areas,
qualified consultants should be appointed as a condition of
disbursement and their terms of reference be agreed at
negotiations;



- 13 -
(h) specific programs to continue the Bank's efforts to build up
OGDC as an institution were agreed with OGDC; 
(i) prior to negotiations, Toot oil and gas prices should be set
equal to the prices prevailing at the time for Meyal oil and gas
and thereafter th.y should be set annually in consultation with
the Bank, with specific criteria for newly discovered oil and
gas; and
(J) advance contracting of up to US$20 million and retroactive
financing up to US$8 million for expenditures incurred after
January 1, 1982 for oil field services be accepted.
2.02     Following a higher management review, it was decided to separate the
oil and gas operations and to process them in parallel. Accordingly, a Bank
loan of US$32.5 million was proposed to the Loan Committee for the oil
com,onent (71% of the foreign costs of US$41.7 million), with the remaining
US$9.2 million to be cofinanced from suppliers/export credits and/or other
commercial financing. Advance contracting of up to US$20 million and
retroactive financing up to US$3.25 were also proposed. The initiation of a
reservoir monitoring program and the finalization of arrangements for
processing associated gas were also proposed as project-specific conditions of
loan effectiveness.
2.03     During negotiations, there were no major changes except that the Bank
loan was reduced to US$30.0 million and the amount earmarked for cofinancing
increased to US$11.7 million.
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Million)
1914      1985                 1212       1288
Appraisal Estimate            27.7       30.0         -          -         -
Actual                         5.05       9.05     15.76      18.06     18.80
Actual as X of Estimate       18.2       30.2      52.5       60.2      62.7
Comments:
Amount cancelled: US$11.20 million.
A time line presentation of the appraisal estimate and actuals of
disbursements is given in the attachment.
The total amount disbursed was only US$18.80 million (62.7X of the
loan amount of US$30 million) largely because of reduced drilling costs
arising from improved drilling performance and the cancellation of the LPG
recovery component. The rig time per well was cut from 398 days for Toot well
#16 to 240 days for well #18. Also, actual physical and price contingencies
were lower than the appraisal estimates. A time line presentation of the
appraisal estimate and actuals of disbursements is given in the attachment.



4. Prolect Imnlementation
IndleatoraL       ^gSlAnuraisal Estimate
1.  Drilling          4  development wells                -  Drilled 4 as planned
-  Also worked over 5 wells
(4 drilled under Toot I
and 1 drilled under Toot
II)
2.  Production and   -  Oil & Gas Separation                  All these components
Field Support         Facilities                       were completed to the
Facilities      -  Gas Compressors                     degree required for
-  Down-hole Safety Equipment          oil being produced at
-  Upgrading of Field Workshop         project completion
-  Upgrading of Field Transport        rather than according
Fleet                           to appraisal estimates.
-  Construction of LPG plant           Dropped
-  Construction of a 16-mile
gas transmission line           Dropped
3.  Infrastructure   Construction of (a) 20miles          Completed, as planned
of road; (b) 32,000 sq.ft.
of office and residential
buildings; and (c) water
supply system
4.  Technical         Specialized oil field               Provided, as necessary
Assistance       services
5.  Prolect Cost-s an  FinanL
A. PROJECT COSTS (USS MILLIONS)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE              ACTUAL
foreian Lga    TLoal       Foreisg  Local   Total
Toot Drilling                            22.7   12.1   34.8         22.14   16.16   38.30
Production and Field Support Facilities   5.9    1.7    7.6           -       -       -
Infrastructure                            0.1    2.0    2.1          0.01    0.02   0.03
Technical Assistance                      _.8     0.      1.0       _0.__._          00.44  -
Total Base Cost                 16             .0 45.51           22.1 16.18 38.37
Contingencies:
Physical                                7.4    3.9   11.3          -       -       -
Price                                   4J      L&      67          _      -
Total Project Cost                     41.A    ZLI    {           22.19  16.18   38.3
Front-end Fees                            0.1     -       0.1        0.07    -       0.07
PPF Financing                            0.2      -       0. ,;!      Q      -       0.22
Financing Required        4      1      Z. 2LA                           16£18 38I6



- 15 -
5B. Proiect Financing
(US$ Million)
Planned
(Loan Aareement      Final                Comments
IBRD                          30.00           18.80       The actual FB cost came
to US$22.48 million, of
Other External Credits        11,70             3.68      which US$3.68 million
41.70           22.48       (cost of of tubular goods
casing and pipes) was
financed through
Domestic-GOP/OGDC             22.1Q            16.18      bilateral credits and
Total               63.80            38.66       only the balance US$18.80
--- =million i.e. 63% of the
appraisal estimate was
financed by the Bank.
The unutilized amount of
US$11.20 million was
cancelled (US$7.0
million effective
November 4, 1987, US$2.5
million effective
January 17, 1988 and
US$1.7 million on July
11, 1988).
Comments
The total foreign cost financing required came to only US$22.48 million, about
54% of the appraisal estimate of US$41.7 million. The foreign cost of the
project came to only US$22.19 million, about 54X of the appraisal estimate of
US$41.4 million mainly because of: (i) reduced drilling costs arising from
improved drilling performance despite an unanticipated working over of S wells
(4 drilled under Toot I and 1 drilled under Toot It); (ii) lower physical and
price contingencies than estimated; and (iii) dropping of the LPG component
and gas transmission line costing about US$3 million. The local costs were
also about US$5.92 million less then the appraisal estimate.



- 16 -
6. Prolect Results
A. DIRBCT BENEFITS
ApDraisal Estimates            Present Estimates
1.  Production of oil        All 4 wells were expected       3 wells have stopped
to produce an aggregate       production and only
of 1,600 BOPD                  1 is producing 290
BOPD
2.  Production of gas         .5 MTCFD                       0.20 MCFD
3.  Production of LPG         60 tons per day                Nil
While the above-mentioned are clearly well below the expectations during
appraisal, OGDC staff have benefited greatly from the project, e.g., OGDC
staff were able to drill one well under the project in 8 months as against 4
years taken by them under.Toot I; and (ii) development of OGDC's in-house
capability for reservoir analysis and installation of a reservoir monitoring
system.
V 



- 17 -
7.   Status of Covenants
.
Loan
Agreement                        SubicS t                                         status
LA Sect.    (a)  GOP shall make available to OGOC, on a         Complied with.
3.03              timely basis, a sum equivalent to
US$11,700,000 in suitable foreign
currencies for the purchase of tubular
materials required for the project.
LA Sect.    (b)  GOP shall ensure that oil prices for           Complied with.  The price paid for
3.04              oil produced as a result of the project       oil produced as a result of this
as well as the Toot Oil and Gas               project is constantly reviewed in
Development Project (Credit 867-PAK and       line with the movement in world oil
Special Action Credit 41-PAK) shall be        prices.
equal to that of Saudi market crude less
a domestic market discount.  Such
discount shall be no greater than that
applied to private companies operating
in the same geologin;al zone, or in the
absence of such cases. in an area
nearest to the area of the project.
LA Sect.    (c)  GOP shall ensure that the price of             Complied with.                                   j
3.05              associated gas produced as a result of
the project, as well as the Toot Oil
and Gas Development Project (Credit
867-PAK and Special Action Credit
41-PAK) shall be no less than that
applicable to private companies
operating in the same geological zone
or, in the absence of such cases, in
an area nearest to the area of the
project.
LA Sect.    (d)  GOP shall not cause OGOC to transfer           Complied with.
3.06              any of its earnings from operations
to GOP, unless OGOC has met its
operating costs, debt service
requirements and a reasonable
proportion of its development and
exploration expenditures from
internally-generated funds.



- 18 -
Project
Aoreemnt                       Subiect                                            Status
PA Sect.  OGOC shall from time to time submit to the    Complied with.
2.08      Bank for approval the location, depth and
the drilling progrm of Toot wells.
PA Sect.  OGOC shall implement a Toot reservoir           Complied with.
2.09      monitoring progran to be agreed between the
Sank and OGOC.
PA Sect.  OGOC shall, in consultation with GOP,           It was agreed between the Bank, GOP
2.10      establish arranguernts satisfactory to the    and OGOC that the low pressure
Sank, for the utilization of associated gas   associatee gas would be compressed
from Toot.                                      and sold to SNGPL, sinee the original
plans (to install a skid-mounted LPG
plant at Toot and to pipe the gas to
POL's LPG plant at Meyal) were
considered uneconomic due to the low
volume of the gas produced.
PA Sect.  06C  shall: (a) furnish to the Bank details   (a) Complied with, as necessary
2.11      of any proposed new development; and            (b) Not complied with.
(b) annually furnish to the Sank an
analysis of its financial situation and a
projection of its future financial position.
PA Sect. OGOC shall carry out its operations under        Oespite its efforts, OGOC has always
3.01      the supervision of qualified and experienced  been hampered by the shortage of
management assisted by competent staff in       experienced and competent staff.
adequate numbers.
Stftus of Covenants
PA Sect.    OGDC shall furnish to the Bank within six  The audited accounts submitted by OGOC
4.02        months of the close of each fiscal year    were heavily qualified.  As required
its accounts  of that year audited by       by the Bank. OGC has now appointed
independent auditors acceptable to the      outside experts to help it to pro-
Bank.                                       duce "clean" audited accounts by
December 1990.
is
PA SQet.    060C shall implement a financial manage-   OGOC has seriously delayed action to
4.03        ment action program, satisfactory            implement a satisfactory financial
to the Bank, in accordance with a sche-    management system.  It has now
dule to be agreed between the Sank          appointed outside experts to estab-
and OGDC.                                   lish such a system by December 31.
1989.



- 19 -
8. Use of Bank Resourges
A. Staff Inputs il
(Staff Weeks)
Stage of            P?.anned,   Revied        FinaL
Proinet Cycle        HQ   Fleld HQ   Fied   HOQField             Comments
Thru Appraisal                                  107.6
Post-Appraisal
Thru Board
Approval                                       34.6
Board Approval
Thru Effectiveness                              1.0
Supervision                                      8S.5
Total
/i Based on TRS data.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 20 -
B. fIssaonA
Performance
Stage of                     No. of   Days in  Specialization    Rating        Types of
,Pro1 ct Cva lo   Month/Year   Persgns  Fiel_  Refsrenee /a         Slatus /b    Problems /c
Thru Appraisal   Jan-Feb '83    5        11       PET.EGR                 -             _
GEOL (2)
FNA
ECON
MAA S DAYS
Post-Appraisal
thru Bd Approval  April 1983    3        2         ECON (2)               -            -
FNA
Nov. 1983     2       5        GEO PH
PET. EGR
Board Approval
thru Effectiveness Apr. 1984     1       1        HAA                     -            -
SlulcvYiJJ
I                       May1984  5       7        GEO.PH.                 2            TMF
GEOL
PET. EGR
FNA
KAA
II                 Jul-Aug'84    4       10       GEO.PH                  1            Not
GEOL ,                              Indicated
PET.EGR
FNA
III                Nov. 1984     3       7        GEO.PH                  1            Not
PET.EGR                             Indicated
GEOL
IV                  ay 1985      2       8        GEO.PH                  Not          Not
GEOL                   Indicated    Indicated
V                 Sep.1985      6       3         PET.EGR                Not          Not
FNA                    Indicated    Indicated
GEO .PH
GEOL
ECON
PET.EGR
VI                 Feb.1986      4       2         GEO.PH                 Not          Not                   -
GEOL                   Indicated    Indicated
PET. ER
MAA
VIi                Apr.1986      1        1       GEO.PH                  Not          Not
Indicated    Indicated
VII               Nov.1986      3       4        GEO.PH                  Not         NKt
GEOL                   Indicated    Indicated
PET.EGR



- 21 -
Perfornanco
Stage of                      No. of   Days in  Specialization    Rating         Types of
Project QM]  Mbnth/Yoa    Persons  Eield    Rcfmrena /a               Status /b        Problas 3/
IX                  Feb-Mar 87    4       3         GEO.PH                  Not           Not
FNA                     Indicated    Indicated
PET.EGR
X                   May 1987      2        2        GEO.PH                  Not           Not
PET.EGR                 Indicated    Indicated
Xi                  Nov-9ec87    6         3        GEO.PH                  1             Not
GEOL (2)                             Indicated
FNA
PET.EGR (2)
Lg   MAA          Management
PET.EGR      Petroleum Engineer
GEOL.        Geologist
GEO.PH       Geophysicist
ECON.        Economist
FNA          Financial Analyst
Lb    1           Problem-free or Minor problems
2            Moderate problems
LI   M            Managerial
T            Technical
F            Financial
2098Q



Second Toot Oil Dev. Project
Cumulative Ext. & Actual Disburwment:
51?
40 -j
o
2~~2 -
:~~1  -
191341                                      19M                   1987                  198
0    Actual              +    Apprai*al E;timata
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



