Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
> . . , 
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION                 Report No. P-3701-PAK
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30.0 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
SECOND TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 19, 1983
R document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
r official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1 = Rs 12.50
Rs 1 = US$ 0.080
Fiscal Year
Government of Pakistan and OGDC
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        Asian Development Bank
CIDA       Canadian International Development
Age ncy
DGER       Directorate General of Energy
Resources
EEC        European Economic Community
GOP        Government of Pakistan
LPG        Liquified Petroleum Gas
NGL        Natural Gas Liquids
OGDC       Oil and Gas Development Corporation
POL        Pakistan Oilfields Limited
PPL        Pakistan Petroleum Limited
SGTC       Sui Gas Transmission Company
SNGPL      Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited
USAID      United States Agency for International
Development
WAPDA      Water and Power Development Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
SECOND TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan {GOP)
Beneficiary:             Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC)
Amount:                  US$30.0 million equivalent (including capitalized
front-end fee)
Terms:                   Repayable in 15 years, including three years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
On-Lending Terms:        GOP would relend the proceeds of the loan to OGDC
for 15 years including three years of grace at 14% p.a.
GOP would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate
risk.
Project Description:    The proposed project, which would assist OGDC in the
further development of the Toot oil field, thereby
increasing domestic oil and gas production in the
short term, consists of (i) drilling of four
additional development wells, (ii) production and
field support facilities including separators and
compressors, (iii) infrastructure including access
roads, water supply systems and accommodation, and
(iv) specialized oil field services and consultants.
The main project risk is that the reservoirs would not
produce at the expected capacity. This risk is not
uncommon in oil and gas development ventures and is
addressed in the analysis of the proposed project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Costs
Local       Foreign       Total
-US$ million--
Toot Drilling Program                                 12.1         22.7         34.8
Production and Field Support Facilities                1.7          5.9           7.6
Infrastructure                                         2.0          0.1           2.1
Oil Field Services and Consultants 1/                  0.2          1.0           1.2
Total Base Cost                                  16.0          29.7         45.7
Physical Contingencies                                 3.9          7.4          11.3
Price Contingencies                                    2.2          4.5           6.7
Total Project Cost                               22.1          41.6         63.7
Front-end Fee                                         _             0.1           0.1
Total Financing Required                              22.1         41.7          63.8
Duties and Taxes                                       1.1           -            1.1
Net Financing Required                                21.0         41.7          62.7
Financing Plan
Local       Foreign       Total
…        US$ million---------
IBRD                                               -           30.0         30.0
Bilateral Credits                                   -          11.7         11.7
GOP                                              22.1            -          22.1
Total                                            22.1          41.7         63.8
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ million
IBRD FY  1984    1985    1986
Annual                                                    22.0      7.4      0.6
Cumulative                                                22.0    29.4    30.0
Rate of Return:    About 31%
Appraisal Report:  No. 4412-PAK dated December 16, 1983
Map:                 IBRD 17072R
1/ Includes $0.2 million refinancing of advance under the PPFo



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR A
SECOND TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent of US$30.0 million to
help finance a Second Toot Oil and Gas Development Project. The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate. The Government intends co-financing $11.7 million of
the project costs from bilateral credits. The proceeds of the loan would be
relent to the Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) at 14% p.a. for 15
years including three years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Review of the Sixth
Five-Year Plan" (No. 4706-PAK, dated October 20, 1983) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on October 20, 1983.
3.      Economic developments during FY83 were generally favorable.  GDP grew
by 5.8%, with value added in agriculture rising by 4.8% and in industry by
8.3%. Continued stagnation in (fixed) investment, which declined slightly
from 13.6% of GNP in FY82 to 13.3% of GNP in FY83, was among the few
unfavorable events. National savings, on the other hand, rose sharply from
10.7% to an estimated 14% of GNP. The declining trend in the rate of infla-
tion continued; as measured by the consumer price index, the rate of infla-
tion slowed from 9.7% in FY82 to 4.2% in FY83.
4.      There was a dramatic turnaround in the balance of payments in FY83.
The current account deficit, at US$429 million (1.4% of GNP), was less than
half the size of deficits in recent years. This outcome reflected three main
factors: a resumption in the growth of exports following a substantial
decline in FY82; a slight decline in the value of imports; and buoyant remit-
tances from migrant workers. The 13% growth in exports, which enabled
exports to nearly regain their FY81 level, was all the more impressive
because the value of all major exports except raw cotton and cotton yarn
declined. The striking feature of the export performance was the growth of
non-traditional exports, which increased by over a third. The drop in
imports reflected, inter alia, higher domestic production of oil and import-
substitution in some key commodities.  The incipient recovery in world trade
and delinking of the exchange rate from the U.S. dollar In January 1982, with
its subsequent depreciation, contributed significantly to the improved
balance of payments picture. Given the favorable outcome on the current



-2-
account, normal levels of net inflows of long-term capital, and net IMF
purchases, Pakistans reserves more than doubled.  At the end of FY83, gross
official reserves stood at US$1,927 million, the equivalent of 3.5 months' of
imports of goods and non-factor services.
5.      Notable progress was made in many areas during the Fifth Five-Year
Plan Period (FY79-83). Real growth rates in national output (6.3%), agricul-
ture (4.4%), industry (9.1%) and exports (9.2%), though below Plan targets,
were all substantially above the rates achieved during 1970-78 and very
respectable compared to the performance of other LDCs over the same period.
This growth - coupled with increased inflows of migrant remittances -
benefited large segments of the urban and rural population. The output of
all major crops reached record levels and self-sufficiency in wheat and sugar
was achieved. Encouraged by improved government policies, private investment
in manufacturing expanded by 8% p.a. in real terms; this expansion was more
than offset by the declining public investment in the sector, however. The
balance of payments performance was quite satisfactory: the current account
deficit declined significantly relative to GDP and foreign exchange reserves
rose from the equivalent of 1.2 months of imports to 3.5 months. Government
fiscal and credit policies reduced budget deficits and monetary expansion and
inflationary pressures gradually subsided. This progress was made despite a
number of unforeseen events:  (a) world recession; (b) a 30% decline in the
external terms of trade after 1979; (c) the Afghan crisis, which necessitated
increased outlays for defense and refugee assistance; and (d) a continued
decline in real net aid flows.
6.      The economy's good performance since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather and higher domestic demand associated
with better crops, rising rural incomes and workers- remittances from the
Middle East. Improvements in agricultural, industrial and fiscal and credit
policies contributed significantly to better economic performance.
7.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives to
improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major
crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices. At the
same time, steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer subsidy (which has
been creating budgetary problems) and to separate it from the development
budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for other priority
agricultural projects and programs. An Agricultural Prices Commission has
been set up to make recommendations on appropriate changes in crop support
and input prices on a consistent and timely basis.
8.      The Government has formulated and begun to implement a new agricul-
tural policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on irrigated
agriculture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the water
delivery system through the rehabilitation of distributaries and better
scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the role of the
private sector, for example, through the promotion of private tubewell



-3-
development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pesticides,
seeds, agricultural credit, extension, research and farm power--have also
been strengthened. These initiatives are still at an early stage and a
breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the farm level is yet
to take place.
9.      Major changes have also been made during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the
private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricul-
tural processing and some industrial units have been denationalized; con-
stitutional safeguards have been provided to private industry against further
arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector
have been widened. A wide range of fiscal incentives have been granted to
encourage private investment and exports. These have been supplemented by a
liberalization of imports which has improved the availability of inputs. The
investment sanctioning procedure has been streamlined. These measures have
led to an improvement in private sector confidence and stimulated private
investment, mainly in small and medium-scale projects.
10.     At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which has
been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been com-
pleted of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have little
prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down. These
measures, together with additions to capacity and steps to retain skilled
technical personnel through salary adjustments, for example in the fertilizer
sub-sector, have helped to increase production and capacity utilization
substantially in the public sector.
11.     Fiscal performance improved significantly over the Fifth Plan period.
The overall budget deficit and government borrowing from the banking system,
which stood at 8.8% and 4.3% of GDP in the first year of the Plan, fell to
6.4% and 1.7%, respectively, by the final year. Reduced levels of government
borrowing from banks, together with overall credit restraint, led to lower
rates of growth of the money supply and lessened inflationary pressures;
prices rose by 4% in the final year of the Plan as compared with 7% in the
first year. The improvement in fiscal performance was, however, largely the
result of expenditure restraint rather than better revenue performance. Real
expansion in current expenditures on economic and social services barely kept
pace with population growth and development expenditures declined relatively
to GDP. At the same time, government revenues remained constant at 16% of
GDP and public savings, having risen in the first half of the Plan period



-4-
from 1% to 3.8% of GNP, amounted to only 1.6% in the last year of the Plan.
Greater resource mobilization by the public sector will be critical for the
implementation of the Sixth Plan.
12.     The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent welcome
steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essentially struc-
tural and long term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, further
wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues which would limit long-term
economic growth are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its recently improved
economic performance over the Sixth Five-Year Plan period (FY84-88) and bring
about a continuing modest improvement in the living standards of its
population. These issues include the farm-level factors affecting low
productivity in agriculture; the structure and competitiveness of the
industrial sector; the need to restrain the growth of energy demand and
improve the exploitation of domestic energy resources; the factors lying
behind continued rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social
service expenditures; and the problems of resource mobilization.
13.     Agriculture remains the economy s mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 55% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Except in the
important case of wheat, agricultural growth since the mid-1970s has been the
product of acreage expansion with little improvement in yields. Because of
the diminishing supply of uncultivated land, as well as the high cost of
extending the irrigation system, a switch to more intensive agriculture is
essential. The achievement of higher productivity will require improved
agricultural services and increased efficiency of the irrigation system as
well as continued attention to producer incentives. Toward the latter part
of the Fifth Plan, some progress was made in reorienting expenditures towards
projects designed to rehabilitate and improve the operation and maintenance
of the irrigation system, increase the efficiency of water use, improve
quality of research and extension, and increase the supply of complementary
agricultural inputs.  These efforts will need to be accelerated during the
Sixth Plan period. At the same time, to limit budgetary requirements in the
water sector, private investment in irrigation and drainage in fresh
groundwater areas must be further encouraged. To encourage greater agricul-
tural yields, the Government must also continue to rationalize prices of
agricultural outputs and inputs. In recent years, pricing decisions have
been taken in a more systematic and timely fashion based on recommendations
by the newly formed Agricultural Prices Commission; procurement prices have
been brought more nearly in line with international prices and subsidies for
fertilizers and pesticides substantially reduced. These efforts, too, will
need to be continued during the Sixth Plan period.
14.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. After a period of
stagnation during the period 1970-77, manufacturing growth has again
accelerated averaging about 9% p.a. over the past six years. To provide a
solid economic basis for continued rapid growth, incentives for greater



private and public manufacturing enterprise efficiency will have to be
implemented. Despite some success in reviving the private sector and improv-
ing the performance of public enterprises, much remains to be done to bring
about a major restructuring of industry and place it on a competitive basis.
The efficient long-term development of the industrial sector will require
both a relaxation of government controls and rationalization of industrial
incentives. While incentives for manufactured exports have been improved,
the trade system still provides a very wide variation in incentives for the
domestic manufacture of various exportables and import substitutes. To
encourage industrial growth more in line with Pakistan-s comparative
advantage, the process of import liberalization initiated over the past few
years must be continued. In addition, the differential rates of protection
given to various domestic products need to be substantially narrowed. To
provide further encouragement for private investment as well as to attract
risk capital, the number of administrative regulations must be reduced. In
addition, the scope of price controls should be substantially narrowed,
especially the use of cost-plus pricing which discourages improvements in
efficiency and energy conservation. Further strong measures to increase
efficiency and self-financing capacity in the public sector are also
essential; the performance standards expected of public enterprises must be
more clearly specified and managers given more responsibility and incentives
for meeting them. The implementation of the Public Enterprises Signaling
System in FY84--which will set performance objectives for individual
enterprises and provide bonus incentives for managers--will be a major step
toward reaching these objectives.
15.     Energy shortages have become a significant constraint to rapid
economic growth in Pakistan. Power and gas shortages are common and the
country imports 90% of its petroleum needs costing over 26% of total imports.
Energy investments to improve the energy situation total over 33% of public
investment in the Sixth Five Year Plan. The Government's efforts to deal
with the energy situation by adjusting domestic oil prices, and by encourag-
ing the substitution of other energy forms and the exploration and develop-
ment of domestic oil resources, have met with some success. Growth of
petroleum consumption has been restrained by the development of hydroelec-
tricity and natural gas resources as well as by petroleum price adjustments.
At the same time, activity in the oil sector has been stepped up, in some
instances through joint ventures with foreign private companies.
Nevertheless, due to a variety of technical, geological and other reasons,
progress on exploration of new fields as well as the development of existing
fields has been slow and Pakistan's considerable potential in the oil and gas
sector has yet to be realized. The Government has begun to implement a
number of reforms relating to such matters as energy planning, pricing and
organization in order to accelerate progress.
16. While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in
population, currently running at about 2.8% p.a., which has seriously handi-



capped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning
programs have so far had little effect and there have been few changes in the
socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany declines in
fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on government1
resources simply to maintain education and health programs at their current
inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy rates, improved
health facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful tlhat
population growth rates can be much reduced.  Expenditures on social services
have been low and undue emphasis has beern given to higher education and urban
health facilities. The Government has recently shown more awareness of this
problem; a new and more promising population program is in the initial stages
of implementation, and several special programs to improve basic health and
education facilities, especially in the rural areas, were introduced in the
FY83 budget,
17.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive and
the social sectors w,ill take time to have an appreciable effect and will have
to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external resource
constrairnts. At 12% of GNP, national savings are substantially above the
levels of the early and mid-l970s, but are still low for a country at
Pakistan's per capita income level and stage of development. To improve the
budget and the balance of payments, a fundamentc1 improvement is required in
the overall savings levels in the economy, particularly in public savings.
Given the size of the public sector's domestic resource requirements, a
comprehensive strategy that utilizes all available instruments, including
taxation policy, greater reliance on user charges, curtailment of open and
implicit subsidies and improved self-financing of investment by public
enterprises, will be needed.
18.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan, initiated on July 1, 1983, represents a
pragmatic overall strategy for Pakistan's continued rapid development.  The
Plan puts heavy stress upon improvements in economic policies as well as on a
public expenditure program. Recognizing the importance of a dynamic private
sector for rapid economic growth and the limitations on public sector
resources, it calls for reduced regulations on the private sector, increased
emphasis on market incentives for greater production and efficiency and for
increased participation in sectors where the Government has previously played
a large role. The size and composition of the public sector development
program is appropriate. While public development expenditures would expand
only as rapidly as gross domestic product, this is a realistic target given
projected available resources and the demands for improved public services.
To achieve such an expansion - a reversal of the declining trend experienced
under the Fifth Plan - and to finance an increasing share from domestic
resources will require a major mobil'zation effort. The largest increases in
sectoral allocations have gone to energy, agriculture and irrigation, and the
social sectors. The shift in the composition of the public sector develop-
ment program is justified because of the threat to future growth posed by
energy shortages, the need to increase agricultural yields by improvem,ents in



-7-
agricultural and irrigation/drainage services, and the past neglect of the
social sectors.
19.     Although, as described above, the Pakistan economy continues to face
a number of difficulties, the improvements over the past few years !n demand
management and in planning, incentives and government programs in
agriculture, industry and energy have helped to create a climate more con-
ducive to rapid economic growth and better international trade performance,
and have established an improved framework within which further reforms can
be effectively pursued. The Sixth Plan represents an important indication of
the Government's intention to continue these improvements. These policy
initiatives have improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for commercial borrow-
ing and for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing.
20.     At the end of calendar 1982, Pakistan's external public debt (exclud-
ing the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$9.2 billion, of which US$4.8 bil-
lion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.3 billion
to OPEC and US$1.8 billion to multilateral agencies and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders.  In 1982, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's
external public indebtedness was 15.2% and in external debt service was
12.1%. According to Bank forecasts, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained, Pakistan-s debt service ratio (debt service divided by exports of
goods and factor and non-factor services), which was about 13.6% in FY82, is
likely to remain below 15% during the 1980s, even assuming substantial com-
mercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN 1/
21.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2.9 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 30% of total Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan have been for agriculture and irrigation; 26% for industry
including import program credits; 21% for transport, telecommunications and
public utility services; 14% for energy including power, gas pipelines and
petroleum; 4% for social programs in education, population and urban
development; and 5% for a SAL.
1/ Part II is substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report
P-3647-PAK (Petroleum Exploration Project), dated September 15, 1983.



-8-
22.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  firsc-i
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to
support the expansion of, and to improve the.institutions which are respon-
sible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth; and
thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban developmerntO
23.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy.  Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and cnlec1t5
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting serviceso
improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and
watarlogging; and providing essential facilities including tubewells, live-
stock development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending
is to assist the Government's program to increase the productivity of avail-
able land and water resources in the Indus Basin through quick-yielding
investments, as recommended recently in a UNDP-financed study for whi h th^e
Bank was executing agency.
24.     In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven Loans/Credits amounting to US$270 mil-
lion for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PITCI,J s
and two Credits to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP>, total-
ing US$50 million. Direct lending for industry has also included assist.ance
to three large fertilizer plants, a refinery engineering loan, as well aLs for
small-scale industry. As of September 30, 1983, IFC had made investments ri
16 Pakistan enterprises for a total of US$182.0 million, of which US$170.4
million was by way of loans and US$11.6 million by equity participations
(these are shown in Annex II). About US$55.7 million of these investmernts
remained outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three in thIe
field of pulp and paper products, two each in textiles, food and food
processing, and petrochemicals, and one each in cement, steel, fertilizers,
plastics, and wood processing. IFC is also a shareholder in PICICe
25.     The Bank has had a long standing involvement in the energy sect.or.
In power, the Bank Group has assisted the Karachi Electric Supply C3rroC7at_ion
(KESC3 and the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with four and
three projects respectively; the sector has also been assisted by the con-
struction under the Indus Basin Development Program of Mangla and Tarbea
Dams. In petroleum, the two Sui gas transmission companies have been
assisted with five projects, while the Bank group is financing two petrcleuie
projects, for production and exploration, and is playing an important role in
strengthening the public Oil and Gas Development Corporation.  An IDA credit
to support a Coal Exploration Project was recently approved. These efforts
are assisting in the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan s
domestic energy resources and in establishing a policy and institutional
framework for increased private investment in the sector. In addition. 1FC
has made three loans in the petroleum sector.



-9-
26.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications has
shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capacity by improving the efficiencv of operations and strengthening the
institutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port
Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department, and federal
and provincial highway agencies. IDA has financed four projects in the urban
and water supply sector, three of which are currently being implemented.
Five credits for education, totaling US$62.5 million, have assisted in
upgrading primary, post-secondary and higher technical and agricultural
education, middle-level training of primary teachers and agricultural exten-
sion agents. A first population project was recently approved.
27.     In addition to financing specific high-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank has from time to time supported Pakistan-s
development through program assistance. A first structural adjustment lend-
ing operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1982.
This SAL program consists of a number of significant reforms in government
development planning and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy
and industrial sectors.
28.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of September 30, 1983. Credit and loan disbursements have been generally
satisfactory. Some projects have experienced initial delays due to
protracted government procedures for project approval, which are being
addressed, and to slowness in the procurement of goods and services. Rapid
turnover of managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to the
Middle East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in the case of some
projects.
29.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
power transmission and generation, direct and indirect industrial
investments, oil and gas development, irrigation, agriculture and education.
Pakistan continues to have domestic resource constraints for the reasons set
out in Part I. To assist the Government to finance agricultural and other
high-priority projects which have a low foreign exchange component, financing
of some local expenditures in specific cases is justified.
30.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of
Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external assis-
tance within the Pakistan Consortium.



10-
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND PETROLEM STJB-SECTOR 1/
A. Energy Sector
Background
31D     Over the past decade Pakistan has been active in developing its
indigenous energy resources, particularly natural gas and hydro-electricity,
and thereby limiting oil imports.. Despite these efforts the country remains
heavily dependent on imported oil to meet its primary energy needs. In
1980/81 oil imports totalled US$1.6 billicn, equivalent to 26% of total
imports.  in its dialogue with GOP, the Bank has stressed the critical impor-
tance of accelerating the exploration for, and development of, domestic
energy resources to substitute for imported oil and the need to encourage
greater private sector participation inl the 'mplementat.ton and financing of
energy investments. The Government recognizes the urgency of these measures
and has instituted a range of policy reforms which should result in a con-
siderable improvement in the energy situation over the medium term.  These
reforms are reflected in the understandings reached between the Bank and GOP
under the first Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit (SAL I), as well as
during the preparation of the proposed project and a proposed petroleum
exploratLon project, for which separate documents are being distributed to
the Executive Directors.
Pakistan's Energy SuDply and Consumption
32.     In 1981/82, commercial energy consumption in Pakistan was 13.7 mil-
lion tons of oil equivalent (TOE), having increased at over 7% p.a. during
the previous decade.  Industry and transportation were the major energy
consumers representing 31% and 21%, respectively, of total energy use. The
transport sector accounted for over 60% of petroleum products consumption,
while rural households consumed almost 90% of total kerosene consumption.
During the decade ending 1981/82 the share of domestically produced gas and
hydel in total energy supply increased from 46% to 58% and the slhare of oil
(90% of which is imported) dropped from 45% to 37%X Despite this, net oil
imports increased from 3 million TOE in 1971/72 to over 4 million TOE i-n
1981/82.
The Energy Resource Base
33.     Natural Gas.  Pakistan has substantial proven gas reserves, recently
estimated at 12.9 trillion cubic feet (TCF). Production in 1981/82 was 323
/ Part III is substantially the same as Part III of the President's
Report P-3647-PAK (Petroleum Exploration Project) dated September 15,
~_983.



-ll-
billion cubic feet (BCF) which accounted for 42% of commercial energy supply.
Gas in Pakistan is a low cost source of energy and rapid growth in production
over the past decade (averaging 9% p.a.) has made an important contribution
to limiting oil imports. However, in recent years production has failed to
keep pace with demand and Pakistan is experiencing increasing gas shortages,
particularly in the winter months. The Government is conscious of the situa-
tion and has evolved, with the assistance of consultants financed by the
Bank, a medium-term gas development plan.  The plan, which will increase
production by over 30% by 1986, will involve investments in field development
and transmission exceeding $730 million. Over 70% of the field development
costs will be financed by private investors including IFC which is supporting
a project with PPL to develop the Sui field. Despite these investments, gas
demand is expected to exceed supply by a wide margin for the foreseeable
future unless major new gas discoveries are made.
34.     Oil.  Known domestic oil reserves are modest, with recoverable reser-
ves estimated at about 90-100 million barrels. In 1981/82, production was
about 10,800 barrels per day (BD), primarily from the Meyal and Toot fields
in the northern Potwar basin. In the next few years production from existing
fields is not expected to increase significantly. A large exploration effort
is required over the next 10 years to assess the oil potential of Pakistan
more thoroughly. Recent attempts to promote increased oil exploration by
private companies, despite sound policies, have met only limited success.
The Government and the Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC), the
national oil company, have decided to launch a new exploration promotion
program, with the assistance of the Bank, to stimulate increased interest by
private petroleum companies.
35.     Electric Power.  Power demand grew at about 9% p.a. in the decade to
1981/82 and is expected to increase at about 10% p.a. over the next ten
years.  Investments in the power sector in the Sixth Five Year Plan (FY84-88)
are projected to exceed US$8 billion or 80% of the total allocation to the
energy sector. Installed hydel generating capacity is expected to increase
from about 1,900 MW in 1981/82 to about 3,100 MW by 1987/88 while thermal
capacity over the same period is expected to increase from about 2,100 MW
to about 5,500 MW. Thermal generation until recently was based almost
exclusively on gas-fired plants, but with increasing gas shortages most of
the new thermal plants are to use more expensive fuel oil and/or coal.
36.     Coal and Nuclear.  Total recoverable reserves of coal are estimated
at 640 million tons, of which only 20% are proven. Most of the proven coal
reserves are of poor quality, and their economic potential is uncertain.
Coal production of 1.65 million tons p.a. (90% of which is used for brick
making) supplied only 5.4% of commercial energy in FY82. The share of coal
in domestic commercial energy supply has declined continuously over the past
20 years because of an abundance of inexpensive natural gas. In view of the
emerging gas shortages, GOP is now placing greater emphasis on the explora-
tion and development of domestic coal. An IDA Credit in support of a Coal
Engineering Project was recently approved. Pakistan has one operational



-12-
nuclear power generation station (137 MW) which provided 0.3% of comme-clal
energy supplies in FY82; a second 900 MW unit is planned to be commISis.ned
in the early 1990s.
Institutional Framework
37.     Operational responsibilities for the various energy sub-sect:ora
Pakistan are divided among several public and private entities.  Oil andn gs-
exploration and development is carried out by OGDC and a number of iterna-
tional oil companies under joint venture concession agreements with 0-DC
and/or GOP.  Two predominantly private companies, Pakistan Petroleum LtdG
(PPL) and Pakistan Oilfields Limited (POL), account for most domestic oL
gas production; POL produces oil from Meyal and PPL gas from Sui.  There ar
three oil refineries in Pakistan, two privately owned and one in the -
sector.  Two of the three oil distribution and marketing companies are < F O
state-owned. Natural gas purification, transmission and distributcor are
largely in the public sector; the Sui Gas Transmission Company (SGTC)
purifies Sui gas and transmits it to the south of the country while Sul
Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd. (SNGPL) transmits and distributes gas in thei
north. Responsibility for power generation and distribution princLpally IS.±,
with two autonomous government organizations. Coal exploration and develop
ment are undertaken mainly through leases granted to private mining coacerns
and by a public sector mining agency.
38.     The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources is responsible for
planning and policy making for oil, gas and coal.  All matters relating to
power generation and distribution are regulated by the Ministry of Wateir arc',
Power. The role of coordinating energy planning is assigned to the Min 5 $ rv
of Planning and Development.  Overall authority for national energy polIJcy
formulation and coordination is entrusted to the National Energy Policy
Committee (NEPC), co-chaired by the Ministers of Finance and Petroleum.
Energy pricing decisions are normally approved by the Ministry of Finances
however, major decisions are referred to the Economic Coordination CommLittee
(ECC) of the Federal Cabinet.
Energy Strategy
39.     Over the past decade Pakistan's energy strategy relied heavily onL
rapid growth of domestic hydel and natural gas production to contain oil
imports. Very low gas prices encouraged substitution for alternative fuae-^
but deterred exploration for new gas reserves, the development of other
energy sources and energy conservation.
40.     With the emergence of gas shortages and higher imported oill cost-sg
GOP has recognized the need for new policy initiatives to improve the domes-
tic energy balance. To achieve the needed improvements GOP has identifiJ.a
the following key objectives:



-13-
(i)  energy management and conservation programs to reduce the growth
in demand through price and non-price policy instruments;
(ii) accelerated development of proven oil and gas fields and inten-
sified exploration for additional domestic energy reserves
including oil, gas and coal; and
(iii)  increased participation of private companies in financing and
implementation of energy investments.
41.     As described in more detail below, several important policy measures
designed to achieve these objectives have already been taken. A gas develop-
ment plan has been approved and supporting measures have been initiated to
ensure its successful implementation. The exploration for and development of
domestic coal resources is being given higher priority. Measures to
accelerate petroleum exploration and development have been taken. Consumer
as well as producer pricing policies have been adjusted. A national energy
plan now under preparation with the assistance of consultants is to serve as
the focus for coordinating energy policy and planning in the future.
B. Petroleum Sub-Sector
Background
42.     Pakistan is a small oil producer with production currently averaging
about 12,000 BD, representing less than 10% of domestic oil requirements.
Oil was first diszovered in 1915 in the shallow Khaur field in the northern
Potwar basin by POL. Prior to World War II several other small fields in the
same area were brought into production but are now largely depleted.
43.     Pakistan is a major gas producer with production in 1982 of 323
billion cubic feet (BCF), equivalent to about 50 million barrels of oil per
annum.  Gas was first discovered in the 1950s at Sui in Baluchistan by Burmah
Oil.
Petroleum Production and Reserves
44.     Proven remaining reserves of crude oil and condensate are estimated
to be about 90-100 million barrels. Individual fields are small, with
original reserves ranging from a high of 50 million barrels to only a few
million barrels. The majority of the fields are located in the Potwar basin
where the reservoirs are deep and of poor quality and drilling conditions are
difficult. The largest field is Meyal with remaining reserves of 28 million
barrels followed by Toot with 14 million barrels. The Meyal field now
produces about 5,500 BD, down significantly from recent years due to reser-
voir problems. The Toot field, operated by OGDC, now produces about 2,600



-14-
BD. The Khaskeli field, discovered in 1981, produces about 4,000 BD but will
have a short life since total reserves are only 10 million barrels.
45.     Total original proven gas reserves in Pakistan are estimated at 16.4
trillion cubic feet (TCF), and remaining proven reserves are 12.9 TCF. Sui
is the largest field, with remaining reserves of 8 TCF accounting for 62% of
the country total. The second largest field, Mari, is estimated to contain
remaining reserves of 4 TCF.  These two fields combined account for over 90%
of total proven reserves in Pakistan. During the 1950s, several smaller
fields containing mostly poor-quality gas were discovered, none of which are
presently producing.  The Government intends carrying out a study to estab-
lish the feasibility of using this gas for such purposes as power generation.
More recently, OGDC made one significant gas discovery at Pirkoh in 1977 and
also discovered the Dhodak gas-condensate field in 1976. Field locations are
indicated on the attached map 'IBRD No. 17072R).
Petroleum Prospects
46.     Pakistan has good prospects for the discovery of additional
hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas. The geology is conducive to the
generation and accumulation of hydrocarbons with suitable source rocks,
reservoir rocks and traps throughout the country. More than a dozen
prominent structures in the gas prone foothills belt are untested and six
one-well gas discoveries have not been fully evaluated.  The probability of
discovering additional gas reserves is high.
47.     Oil prospects in Pakistan are more elusive.  The majority of known
oil fields are in the Potwar basin which, because of the small field size and
high cost of development, is of little interest to international oil
companies. Outside the Potwar basin the geologic evidence suggests that oil
as well as gas should be generated. The recent discovery of the small
Khaskeli field by Union Texas was impvortant because it confirmed that oil
generation did take place in the south. However, the search for oil will
require considerable additional seismic work and drilling to evaluate the
potential properly. The Government plans to undertake a new exploration
promotion program, with assistance from the Bank, designed to encourage
increased exploration by international oil companies.
48.     in the absence of new oil discoveries, domestic oil production over
the next decade is not expected to increase. Although accelerated develop-
ment of proven fields may increase production somewhat over the next few
years, the production decline from these fields in the late 1980s is expected
to be rapid. Even if the Dhodak gas-condensate field is developed soon and
condensate production reaches the expected 5,000-7,000 BD, Pakistan's total
oil production in 1989/90 is expected to be no higher than at present.
49.     A recent gas supply and demand study prepared for GOP with Bank
assistance indicated that, in the absence of major discoveries5 gas demand
would exceed supply by,a -wide margin for the foreseeable future. On the



-15-
basis of planned investments to increase production of proven fields, the
reserves to production ratio in the l990s will be reduced below 15 years,
which is very low for Pakistan with its heavy dependence on gas. The supply-
demand gap can be narrowed through the development of poor-quality gas reser-
ves and better management of gas demand; however, major new gas discoveries
are needed if the gap is to be eliminated and the reserves to production
ratio kept at a reasonable level.
Role of Public and Private Sectors
*          50.     The pace of petroleum exploration in Pakistan has generally been
modest. Private oil companies have viewed the Potwar fields as too small and
costly to warrant further exploration, and south of the Potwar the basins
were judged gas-prone in a country where, following the discovery of the
large Sui and Mari fields, there was surplus gas. In the early sixties,
following the withdrawal of most foreign oil companies, GOP established OGDC
to continue exploration with Soviet technical assistance. Drilling initially
focussed on the oil-bearing Potwar basin, resulting in the discovery of Toot.
Although OGDC's progress in drilling wells was slow, it met with some
success, discovering Dhodak and Pirkoh as well as developing Toot.
51.     Following the 1974 oil price increases, the Government sought to
accelerate exploration by inviting foreign oil company participation on a
joint venture basis. This new policy (described below) was successful in
stimulating increased exploration activity. The Government strategy has been
to focus OGDC activity on the gas-prone areas and the Potwar basin, of mini-
mal interest to foreign oil companies, while making other areas readily
available to foreign oil companies on reasonable terms.
52.     Over the next five years required investments in oil and gas are
estimated at about $2.2 billion including about $400 million for exploration.
Approximately 50% of the total expenditures would be by private companies and
the remainder will be carried out by OGDC and the gas transmission companies.
53.     Private Sector.  In 1976 GOP revised the terms on which new foreign
and domestic private oil companies could participate in petroleum exploration
and development. An attractive package of incentives and assurances was
designed for new exploration license holders. The basic framework provides
for investors to participate as joint venture partners with OGDC and/or GOP,
who contribute a small portion of exploration costs (usually 2.5% to 10%)
with an option to increase their participation (usually up to 50%) following
commercial discovery. In the most recent agreements, there is also provision
for a negotiable percentage of additional equity to be transferred to the
State once an agreed risk-adjusted return on investment has been achieved.
54.     The non-financial contract terms provide the investor with assurances
concerning, inter alia, rights to export oil, foreign exchange
convertibility, control of operations and dispute settlement procedures.  The
financial terms stipulate that crude oil be sold at world prices with a



-16-
discount (usually 10-15Z) on domestic sales.  A 12.5% royalty and  nc:e -
apply, but there is a limit on total payments to the State of 55% of riet
income.  To ensure flexibility of terms, the work commitments, domestLc
market discount and participation percentages are negotiated on a case-by-
case basis.
55.     The new policy, initiated in 1976, was successful in attracting abou:
a dozen foreign oil companies. To encourage foreign investment the Bank has
issued three "letters of co-operation" to oil companies desi-ned to ersure
Bank presence in the event of a commercial discovery and thereby limit
"political risk".  Although exploration activity did increase, the only
success to date has been the Khaskeli discovery by Union Texas. At ?reseat,
only four of the new entrants have active work programs, while the remaisdEif
are either inactive or have relinquished their licenses.
56.     Over the past 18 months the Government and OGDC have made fu_thar
attempts to stimulate greater private participation.  Eleven blocks anJeT
license to OGDC were offered to private oil companies on attractive termsn
To maintain maximum flexibility, work programs and financial terms wer- l_ft
open and companies were invited to submit proposals. Unfortunately, in trihe
current depressed exploration environment the industry response was
disappointing. Three blocks are expected to be awarded to the Kuwait
Petroleum Corporation but no proposals were received for the remainin£ e4at.K
blocks.
57.     Despite sound Government policies, the prospects for private expplora-
tion over the next few years are not good. The industry perceptioll of
Pakistan as "gas prone" remains very strong despite the Khaskeli discovery,
Foreign oil companies are not interested in exploration for gas because c-
the unique marketing, institutional and financial problems associated with
it. If private exploration is to increase over the next few years, acti-v.e
promotion efforts by the Government and OGDC designed to identify and market
new oil-prospective areas will be required.
58.     Public Sector.  The Government intends that OGDC will cont nue to
play an important role in the petroleum sub-sector, particularly since
private exploration activity is unlikely to increase significantly in the
near future. In the past OGDC's effectiveness was constrained by over-
commitment of technical and manpower resources to too many activities,
resulting in a slow pace of exploration activity and long delays in deveft -p
ing its few known discoveries. Recently, however, decisions have bee-l made
to focus OGDC resources on a more limited number of high priority objectives.
Development activity by OGDC will be confined to Toot and Pirkoh; the DPho1ak
discovery is to be developed by a private operator under contract to OCDC.
In addition, OGDC will implement a limited exploration program focusslng o-
gas prone areas and small structures in the Potwar basin, with allI remairniig
areas open to foreign oil companies under joint venture agreements.



-17-
59.     At the same time, increased efforts are being made to strengthen the
management and technical capacity of OGDC as well as to improve its financial
position and develop its access to commercial sources of financing. These
objectives, which are central to the proposed project, are discussed below.
Oil and Gas Pricing
60.     The main pricing issues confronting the Government in 1981 were very
low gas consumer prices which encouraged excessive growth in demand, and low
producer prices for oil and gas from producing fields which delayed develop-
ment of proven fields and deterred exploration for new reserves. Over the
past two years, significant progress has been made towards rationalizing the
level and structure of oil and gas prices.
61.     Most petroleum products are covered by Government price controls at
ex-refinery and consumer levels.   The average consumer price for oil
products is above the import price, with local gasoline prices significantly
higher than import parity (US$1.80 per gallon) and kerosene prices lower
(US$0.83 per gallon).
62.     As noted above, producer prices for newly discovered oil by oil
companies operating under joint venture agreements are set equal to world
prices less a negotiable, usually 10-15% domestic market discount. Producer
prices for oil from the older Potwar fields (including Meyal and Toot) have
in the past been set on a cost-plus basis. For Meyal, the main producing oil
field, the producer price was set at Rs 44/Bbl (i.e., about US$3.50/Bbl) in
1976. In 1981, after lengthly negotiations and acute cash flow problems for
the producing company, a further price increase, applicable to production
from new wells only, of US$10/Bbl was agreed. Despite this, the cost-plus
approach continued to cause difficulties and in late 1983 GOP agreed to
abandon cost-plus pricing and treat Meyal production the same as new
discoveries. In future, the price of Meyal production will be equal to the
world market price, from time to time, less an agreed domestic market dis-
count of 45%.
63.     In 1981, the average gas consumer price was US$110/MCF which was
about 25% of the fuel oil equivalent price. Since then, the average price
has been increased by over 80% in three steps to a current level of
US$1.80/MCF which is about 45% of fuel oil parity. The Government intends
progressively to adjust gas consumer prices with a view to increasing the
average price to two-thirds of fuel oil parity (about US$2.60/MCF at current
prices) by 1988.
64.     Historically, gas producer prices have been set on a cost plus
guaranteed rate of return basis. In 1981 the Sui price was US$0.07/MCF. In
1982, in response to the need to finance major new field compression
facilities, a revised formula was agreed under which the Sui price was set at
about US$0.33/MCF in 1982 and is expected to increase to about US$0.84/MCF by
1984. While the revised price has secured the needed investments at Sui, it



-18-
does not provide incentives to minimize costs or optimize the rate of
production.
65.     The Government has adopted a new price formula applicable to all new
gas supplies, including gas discovered by companies operating under joint
venture agreements. The new formula will establish a "base price" at the
level, based on expected costs, required to generate an agreed discounted
cash flow rate of return; this base price will be indexed to movements in
international oil prices. The new formula will encourage cost efficiency,
provide greater incentives to increase production and provide a link to
international energy prices. The acceptability of the formula to investors
will depend on flexibility by the Government with respect to both the rate of
return and the costs which can be irncluded in determining the base price.
Role of the Bank
66.     The Toot oil and gas credit (Cr. 867-PAK), approved in December 1978,
was the first lending operation to OGDC. The US$30 million IDA credit and
parallel EEC Special Action Credit of $12 million were fully disbursed in
1982. The project was designed to increase Toot oil production and to
strengthen the implementation capacity of the OGDC. Despite drilling dif-
ficulties and lower-than-expected reservoir quality, incremental production
from the project represents about 80% of total field production and the
economic rate of return of the project was high. Further, despite initial
imDlementation difficulties, the past 18 months have seen a sharp improvement
in OGDC performance with reduced drilling time and four consecutive success-
ful well completions.
67.     The rol'e of the Bank through its broad based dialogue in the
petroleum sub-sector is to assist GOP in developing and implementing a sound
petroleum exploration and development strategy. Over a period of more than
two years of detailed discussions with GOP substantial progress in this
direction has been achieved. Within the SAL framework, producer and consumer
prices for oil and gas were addressed and significant improvements achieved.
During preparation of the Fifth SNGPL Project (Ln. 2324-PAK) a satisfactory
medium term gas development plan was evolved and is now being implemented.
In the course of preparation of the proposed project the respective roles of
the public and private sectors were clarified, new exploration areas were
opened up to private investors, greater private sector involvement in
development of fields was achieved, and measures initiated to strengthen the
capability of OGDCf
68.     The role of the Bank in the proposed project is to continue support-
ing the incipient but encouraging institution building measures already
undertaken by OGDC. The design of the project has been significantly
influenced by the dialogue with Bank staff. At the technical level it incor-
porates improved well completion and testing practices and a comprehensive
reservoir monitoring program which will form the basis of future field
development plans. In additions the project includes a detailed financial



-19-
management action plan to improve management information systems, company
accounting and inventory control. Finally, the project provides for substan-
tial price increase for Toot oil and gas with the abandonment of cost-plus
pricing and acceptance of price parity with the private sector. The substan-
tially improved financial forecast which resulted for OGDC should increase
future scope for raising commercial finance for OGDC development operations.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
69.     The proposed project was prepared by OGDC with assistance from con-
sultants and Bank staff. It was appraised in January 1983. Negotiations
took place in Washington from May 10 to May 13, 1983; the delegation from
Pakistan was led by Mr. Mukhtar Masood, Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum and
Natural Resources. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled: "Pakistan: Second
Toot Oil and Gas Development Project" (Report No. 4412-PAK, dated December 16, 1983)
is being circulated separately to Directors. A supplementary data sheet is
attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Background
70.     The main objectives of the project are: (i) to accelerate oil and
gas production from the Toot field and optimize the future development
program; (ii) to improve OGDC's oil field development practices through the
financing of specialist services; and (iii) to continue institution building
efforts initiated under the first Toot project to strengthen OGDC's technical
and management capabilities and financial structure.
71.     The Toot field, located 128 km southwest of Islamabad in the Attock
district, Punjab Province, was discovered by OGDC in 1968. The Phase I Toot
development project began in 1978 and was supported by an IDA credit of US$30
million (Cr. 867-PAK) supplemented by an EEC Special Action Credit of US$12
million equivalent (EEC 41). Both credits were fully disbursed as of end-
1982. Assistance is also being provided by the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA).
72.     All eight of the projected wells under the first project have been
drilled, of which five were completed as producers and three abandoned
because of mechanical difficulties resulting from extremely difficult drill-
ing conditions. Incremental production from the first project is about 2,000
BD which is well below the 6,000 BD expected at appraisal. The shortfall is
partly the result of fewer-than-planned well completions particularly in the
earlier wells and partly because the productivitv of the Toot wells have been
less than forecast.
73.     Initially the first project was beset by implementation problems
ranging from drilling difficulties to loss of skilled technical staff from
Pakistan and low morale. However, over the past 18 months there has been a



-20-
marked improvement in OGDC-s performance, with sharply reduced drilling
and three consecutive successful well completions. There has also been a
marked improvement in the management information, accounting and .mater Els
control functions of the company. The recent performance in overcoming t`r.".a
difficult drilling conditions has resulted in sharply increased proctvi
The IDA financed wells now account for over 75% of overall productio  rro:m
Toot.
74.     Despite the relatively high number of well completions, theg
and reservoir behavior of the field are still not completely underst"Coo
This is partly because of the lack of detailed data on the physical prcm 
ties of the reservoir and partly as a result of the cautious approach
by OGDC in choosing well locations out of concern to maximize productic04
The proposed second project is based on the findings of a recent res'-rvOir
study by consultants who recommended the drilling of four additional 1evE''
ment wells combined with an intensive reservoir monitoring program t ce
further reservoir data needed to formulate an optimal future develon. Men
program.
75.     The production forecasts on which the project is based -ve
from the consultant-s reservoir model on the basis of conservative as
tions about reservoir behavior.  Incremental production from the Ds-'E
development program during the next 20 years is estimated to be appro-i_uE-  Ny
2.0 million barrels of oil and 16 BCF of associated gas (2.8 m411ion ba-i,els
of oil equivalent) over and above the 6.5 million barrels of oil and  8 WCl'
of gas producible without the project.
76.     The Toot associated gas contains substantial amounts of propane auc^
heavier hydrocarbons that could yield approximately 3.2 million barrels oif
liquified petroleum gas (LPG) and natural gas liquids (NGL). It is preoen :;
envisaged that this gas would be processed using the excess capacit-y at t°-e
gas processing plant at the Meyal field which would necessitate the coLiec
tion of a 16 mile 10 to 12-inch gas transmission line between Toot and e:val
(at an estimated cost of US$3 million).  Currently GOP, OGDC and POT
operators of Meyal) are negotiating issues related to the construction of
gas pipeline.  The finalization of arrangements for the processing o'  o-sc-
gas satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness of tie
proposed loan (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
77.     In the past, OGDC has been unable to adhere to a systematic  e v
data collection and evaluation program because of drilling and comp' et-icon
problems, uneven oil production and staffing constraints. Although the
production forecasts for the proposed second project by the consul tants are
conservative, the implementation of a reservoir monitoring and re evaluadtl--
program is essential if further development of the field is to be
Such a program has now been agreed with OGDC and initiation of this           -a
would also be a condition of effectiveness of the loan (Section C             of
the draft Loan Agreement).



-21-
78.     In addition to the reservoir monitoring program, other aspects of
institution building at OGDC continue to be high-priority objectives. It is
important that the many improvements achieved under the first project be
consolidated, and that further steps be taken to help OGDC become a more
efficient and effective organization. As discussed later, the project incor-
porates continued support for further measures to improve the accounting,
financial and management performance of the company.
Project Description
79.     The major component of the proposed project would be the drilling
of four development wells at the Toot field. New equipment and facilities
would be needed, such as a three-stage oil and gas separation system and
three single-stage test separators; a 3,000 hp gas-driven compressor plant
to collect and pressurize the separated associated gas to pipeline inlet
pressure; and down-hole safety equipment.
80.     The project would also include the provision of infrastructure
including construction of camp facilities, field water suDply and access
roads. In addition, the existing workshop facilities at the field would be
upgraded.
81,     Technical Assistance.   In view of the complexity of oil field opera-
tions at Toot, the project would provide for continued provision of special-
ized contractor and consulting services. These would include contract
drilling, drilling management, well logging, testing, cementing and
completion, tubular goods inspection, well fluid sampling and bottom-hole
pressure measurements. The project would also include engineering and design
of subsurface safety equipment, consultants to re-evaluate the Toot reservoir
and additional support for strengthening OGDC's management.
Project Implementation
82.     The General Manager, Projects, of OGDC would have overall respon-
sibility for managing the project. These responsibilities would include
coordination of the entities in charge of implementation (OGDC's own operat-
ing departments, service contractors and consultants), monitoring of
implementation progress and the reservoir studies. A separate Toot
Development Proiect unit has been established with a Project Director report-
ing to the General Manager, Projects, with direct responsibility for project
implementation. The establishment of this unit was one step towards devolv-
ing greater operational autonomy to project staff. To ensure close coopera-
tion with service contractors and facilitate decision making, a senior OGDC
engineer would be continuously stationed in the field. OGDC's operating
departments have been strengthened by the addition of CIDA-financed consult-
ants in the fields of project management, drilling, production and reservoir
engineering and oil field materials and equipment; these arrangements would
be continued throughout the implementation of the proposed project.



-22-
83      The drilling of the four Toot development wells would be undertaken
by OGDC Drilling Department. Qualified expatriate drilling service contrac-
tors wculd manage OGDC rigs and would supply the personnel needed for drill-
ing operations. International contractors would perform special operations
such as well logging, testing, cementing, perforating and tubular goods
inspection.   OGDC would use the services of qualified international consult-
ants for the collection of reservoir data and reservoir evaluation studies.
The design of oil storage tanks and the Toot-Dhulian oil pipeline which was
initiated under the first project would be revised and updated by
consultants.
84.     OGDC, witi the assistance of local contractors, would install neces-
sary field surface production facilities, new roads, well locations and oil
storage tanks.
Project Costs and Financing
85.     The project, which would be implemented over a period of about three
years, is estimated to cost US$63.8 million equivalent, including the front-
end fee, duties and taxes, and refinancing of an advance under the PPF for a
study of the Dhodak field. The foreign exchange component of the project
is estimated at US$41.7 million, or 65% of the total cost.
86.     The drilling and equipment costs are based on detailed lists of
materials and services prepared by OGDC from recent experience at Toot; a
physical contingency of 30% has been applied to the base cost of well drill-
ing and completion and 10% on all other cost items. These rates are based on
recent experience in the same area. Costs have been calculated in 1983
prices, with price contingencies on foreign costs of 7.5% for 1984 and 7% per
annum thereafter, and 8% per annum on local costs. The expected average cost
per man-month for the various foreign consultancy services required (56
man-months) is US$18,500 including foreign travel and subsistence.
87.     The proposed Bank loan of US$30.0 million would cover about 48% of
the total net project cost and about 72% of the foreign exchange cost; it
represents 'Less than 5% of OGDC's total investment program for the period
1982/83-1985/86. A contribution by OGDC corresponding to the cost assigned
to the use of OGDC rigs and to the value of materials and equipment available
from the first Toot project is estimated at US$4.2 million equivalent; this
contribution has not been included in the cost estimates for the purpose of
the proposed project as no cash expenditures are involved.
88.     Materials and equipment, mostly tubular goods such as casing and
piping, estimated to cost $11.7 million, would be financed with bilateral
credits. In the short term, OGDC's continuing dependency on budget transfers
and weak balance sheet posittion precludes commercial borrowing by the
company. Consequently, the proposed project is not suitable for commercial
financing. Discussions with commercial banks have confirmed this view.



-23-
89.     GOP plans, over the next few years, to make increasing use of commer-
cial capital markets and intends to initially develop a "track record' by
going to the markets with high-quality institutions. At the present time
OGDC is not judged a suitable vehicle for this type of financing. An impor-
tant objective of the pricing provisions of the proposed project (and the
proposed petroleum exploration project) is to improve OGDC's financial posi-
tion and permit it, in future, to borrow commercially for its own development
expenditures.
90.     The foreign exchange costs of oil field services, engineering and
consultancy for the project are estimated at US$13.7 million.  These services
are not normally suitable for bilateral credits, since the majority of serv-
ice contractors are transnational companies. These items would therefore be
financed from the proceeds of the Bank loan. Equipment and materials
estimated to cost $16.0 million would also be financed from the proceeds of
the loan, as well as refinancing of the PPF ($0.2 million) and the front end
fee ($0.1 million).
91.     To ensure continuity in the development of the Toot field, items
proposed for Bank financing include provision for up to US$10 million of
advance contracting for well field services and goods required to maintain
the drilling program. Retroactive financing for expenditures on these items
made after January 1, 1983, of up to US$3.0 million has also been provided.
92.     The proposed Bank loan would be made to GOP, who would on-lend the
proceeds of the loarn to OGDC at 14% p.a. for 15 years, including three years
of grace. The interest rate and foreign exchange risks would be borne by GOP
and is reflected in the on-lending rate which will be positive in real terms.
The maturity of the loan is related to the projected cash generation of the
project, allowing for the uncertainty which surrounds the production
forecast.
Procurement and Disbursement
93.     Procurement of items proposed for Bank financing would be through
international competitive bidding (ICB) according to Bank guidelines with two
exceptions: (i) up to US$2.0 million of goods and services which would be
procured through limited international tendering because of the highly spe-
cialized nature of the items and the small number of available suppliers;
and (ii) the services of existing service contractorsl/ at Toot for the four
wells up to a cost of about US$13.7 million; the major item is the cost of
the drilling services contractor. Drilling conditions at Toot are extremely
difficult and implementation of the first Toot project in the early stages
1/ Existing service contractors selected according to Bank guidelines
under Credit 867-PAK are: KCA; Schlumberger; Dowell-Schlumberger;
Magcobar; and Vetco.



-24-
was complicated by unfamiliarity of the drilling and other serv ice
tors with the uniquely complex conditions.  Recently, as familiarityj
local conditions has grown, drilling and completion success has 5
significantly.  Introduction of new contractors would risk a recurrence c
earlier complications and reduce the probability of efficient and safe
operations.  Prices of these services are reasonable, and lower pi'ce
unlikely through additional bidding.  Specialized consulting servi.es
estimated to cost US$1.0 million would be obtained in accordance with
Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.  To maintain the mowen- i
operations at the Toot field, OGDC awarded contracts for oil field
during the first half of 1983.
94.     Disbursements from the proposed loan would be made for thie
fee, for the refunding of the advance from the PPF and against 100% of
eign expenditures for (a) oil field services, engineering and conesu caut., -'
and (b) equipment, materials and spare parts. For locally manufactured
equipment, disbursement would be made against 100% of the ex-factory eos 
Disbursement against all items would be fully documented. The proposed les
is expected to be fully disbursed by the end of 1985/86.
Oil and Gas Development Corporation
95.     Management and Organization.  OGDC's management is ves.-ed -rn a__
of five directors appointed by the Government, including a chairman -n-yo -.
Chief Executive.  OGDC employs about 3,500 staff, including 600 skil1ad
workers.  Over the last ten years it has suffered from a number of flce-
and financial weaknesses which have hampered its efficiency. Under the .L-rs
Toot Project GOP undertook a comprehensive management study of OGDC wi',.
assistance of consultants financed by the U.K. The main findings of -;`r,S
study were the need to simplify the management structure, increase s
tially the delegation of authority, induce independence in op2rat io al In .'AtS
and strengthen the financial and control systems. The Bank has been clo,ely
involved with OGDC and GOP in the review of the findings of this stu           ½.s a
result of this review, the Government has initiated measures to reffors
managerial deficiencies in OGDC and is following up on suggestions fo-
streamlining OGDC's financial systems.  Greater autonomy has been  c -
to OGDC's field operations at Toot; a separate holding company has
established for the development of the Pirkoh field; and initial steps 7ave
been taken to adjust compensation levels to retain and attract tuec&s.-Ca
personnel.  In addition, a specific financial management action prcg-
continue improvements in the accounting, management information and
control functions was agreed with the Bank in December 1982 and imp
tion of the program is proceeding satisfactorily.  The proposed project
provides for continuing support to this program (Section 4.03 of th- dXs:t
Project Agreement).
96.     Financial Position.  OGDC-s activities have so far ben t-
almost exclusively from GOP budget transfers, with a negligible c&ntai    n
from internal cash generation.  In part this resulted from large ex2             =



-25-
and development expenditures which have not yet been matched by corresponding
increases in production. It also resulted in part, however, from inadequate
oil and gas prices for OGDC production. The Government has now agreed to
various actions which will correct this situation and significantly improve
OGDC's financial position.
97.     Until recently Toot associated gas was sold for Rs 2/MCF (US$0.16)
and crude oil for Rs 44/Bbl (US$3.50). Consequently, OGDC incurred operating
losses in 1981/82 on its Toot field operations. Toot prices were set equal
to Meyal prices which were themselves set on a cost-plus basis. In late
1983, GOP agreed to abandon cost-plus pricing to Meyal and to adopt instead
market related prices (paragraph 62). It also agreed to revise Toot oil and
gas prices to a level no less favorable than those paid to private companies
operating in adjacent areas (Sections 3.04 and 3.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement) which in this case means parity with the revised Meyal prices.
The shift from cost-plus to market pricing is a very positive step.
98.     Under the revised price agreements the new price applicable to Toot
oil will be increased to US$16/Bbl from US$3.50/Bbl and the price of
associated gas will rise from Rs 2/MCF to Rs 5/MCF. At these prices the Toot
project will be financially viable generating sufficient revenue to finance
operating cost, project debt service and finance, on Bank estimates, up to
25% of OGDC-s ongoing exploration and development program (as compared to
zero contribution in the past).
99.     GOP has also agreed that OGDC will be permitted to retain its earn-
ings until it is able to meet its operating costs and debt service related to
development operations, and contribute a reasonable share of its exploration
and development requirements from internal cash generation (Section 3.06 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Under the petroleum exploration project GOP has
also agreed that oil and gas discovered as a result of that project will
receive a price no less favorable than prices paid to private oil companies
operating under joint venture agreements in adjacent areas.
100.    The financial strategy outlined above is aimed at making each of
OGDC's development ventures financially viable so that, when a sufficient
production level has developed, OGDC should automatically move to an accept-
able position on its revenue account and operational cash flow. If ongoing
and prospective projects are developed successfully in line with present
plans, OGDC will therefore be able in due course to generate internally
sufficient cash flow to finance an increasing portion of its ongoing invest-
ment program and hence substantially reduce reliance on GOP budget transfers.
Project Benefits and Risks
101.    The economic benefit from the proposed project is the value of
incremental oil, gas and LPG/NGL resulting from the addition of the four Toot
wells. Incremental gas and LPG/NGL production are as important as oil in
project benefits. The economic benefit to Pakistan, as reflected in the



-26-
estimated economic rate of return on investment, is about 31% and the net
discounted benefit is $35 million. These results are based on conservative
incremental production forecasts derived from the consultants' reservoir
model. Should the project cost be 20% higher, the economic rate of return
would be 23X and the net discounted benefit $24 million.  In the worst case,
where marginal production is 20% below the consultants' forecast, world
prices 20% lower than forecast, and costs 20% higher than expected, the
economic rate of return would be 15% and the net discounted benefit $6
million.
102.    The proposed Bank financing would permit continued use of the spe-
cialized service contractors whose participation in project implementation is
crucial for continued successful operations. The project would also support
continuation of recent improvements in OGDC management, and the pricing
arrangements agreed would ensure a sound basis for strengthening the
company's financial position.
103.    The main uncertainty concerns the ultimate recovery and production
profile of the Toot reservoir, in view of the limited reservoir data and
unpredictable behavior to date.  Although more pronounced in this project
than in other development projects, this risk is not uncommon and is con-
sidered acceptable. To minimize the likelihood of over-estimating project
benefits, conservative production forecasts from the consultants' reservoir
model were utilized and the economic rate of return on these assumptions
remains satisfactory. The risk of failure to complete some of the develop-
ment wells, given the complex drilling conditions, is relatively high.
However, OGDC's drilling success has improved considerably over the past two
years. To minimize drilling risks the present drilling and drilling services
contractors would be retained for the project. There is a risk that one of
the four proposed wells will not be completed as a producer.  This is an
acceptable risk and still results in a satisfactory economic rate of return.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
104.    The draft Loan Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and
the Barnk, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Oil and Gas
Development Corporation and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately. The following would be
additional conditions of effectiveness: that (a) satisfactory arrangements
for processing Toot gas have been finalized; (b) an agreed reservoir monitor-
ing program for the Toot field has commenced; (c) a subsidiary loan agreement
between GOP and OGDC has been executed; and (d) the PC-1 documents for the
project have been approved by ECNEC. Other special conditions of the project
are listed in Schedule III of Annex III.



-27-
105.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
106.    I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 19, 1983
Washington, D.C.



U
* .  0000000  000              0    040      0      000        000000
0<
'o <
00
0  0 00  0  0   .0  ..*   oO   00000000   .0    0    000 0   0 0    000                    00 000               . .
0    0         00   000   00 0o0   0    0    000 0   0 0    000    00400000
0  0               00   00         00         0    00000  0    000    00   00 000
0 0<  0   4               00                                                            00 000
O  0 00
0    0                                           -:1<       2RRI                             I 4JOJ
o  0  00   00    0000000  000  00    0    000 0   0 0    000    00   00 000  .                   *    .
0  -            -.     -.   .
.4   00          00   400   00   00           00 00    0    000 0-  0 0    000    0000000
O     H          00   000                     0  0      0    000000           000           0 000
00          o    oO-                        0      o                                   0 000
cc     U    00          0       0                                                                   0 0
00    EOj 
.4      0 0  0   00           00   000   00 000  0 -   0    000 0   0 0    000                0 ooo
00  0   0          .   .                        .   .  .   .  .            .    .   .   .
<<  0  0          00          00   00          00 0      0    o00  0  0 0    000    00  0-0 000                  000    0-4 -4
HO  H  o          00                           0  0       0    00000  0    00                 0 00
0  0             0                                0     0                                    0 000
0  0             0                                                                          0 0 0
0,0.  21
0-4  004   0.0 000  . .   0    000 -4  0 0    . .        . . . 00 00   .          000
00      0  00   004   00 000           0    000 0  o 0                     o 00         000000
00      0  00  -40          0          0    000 0  0 0                     0 00
0  -4j   2<                                                                       zo                    H
0    .'.4    0                                0<    2    H                 0                       0
0<0   0:       .4              0  0              0<    0    0                 0                       0
00  -000                    0  <0             .4     0    0                00      0          ,    a
H-I HO     to                    0  coo   ,-         0  -0<   0                00
0<  <OH   00H                    0  00    0       00 H    0  0                  00      0  0      0      0
00 otO   0 0                    20   00   00          0  00   0                 0
<0 000   000                     00 00   00         0 .4  H-0  0               0 .4   .4
00    1.0 <-00 abooo                      H H   11  0  0 0  0    -0                  00<      0
0 0 o0                     00 '00  Ho   0 0<        oO       -            OH     H                0
.00          00 0000                     0<       00 0  0  0  OH   0                    00                      0-
00-4         <0 00.40              0    00  -'0  0! 00 00 0            0                00      0
0                                                 0
000  On 0  .40-0 0-00                    -00 <0   00   0  -           H                00      0
I     0   0000                      0 0    00 000.00        0
01 00 HO  0 00                      0  OH  0    40000         0  0                         2
0            22  2222                   52222  2              1  uo   o                   0     0                0
OH  0  0                     o0    HO            0   0    0                00      0               00
0         00-0  00<        0     <0   0                00      0                .40
-2 -421          2 0    HHO<00  000  <0000  0  00    0                               0            -4-4
00  ----                 00000  0        0 0 41  HH  40-0               00      0                 o
0 0          00  00-oH                    00000. 0 0 00000  0  00-0 00                  00      0                Co
0 H                                       0000-  000  0000                              00      0                HA
O -1 01 00       0-20           1) HIZ             00             0              I 4  HHZ   o              .40.4
Ii                                               j                                 2                oo
000                    <.OH  22               22
IH 0                                            0               0



-29-                                                            ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
PAKISTN -SCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
PAKISTAN                              -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) 
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME            MIDDLE I NCOE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 30.0          44.0      56.0                 97.4                  96.2
MALE                  46.0         62.0       81.0                101.0                  99.8
FEMALE                13.0         24.0       31.0                 87.8                  92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         14.0       16.0                 53.0                  37.6
MALE                  18.0          22.0      24.0                 63.8                  41.1
FEMALE                 3.0          6.0        8.0                 41.3                  34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   1.0             1.5        1.4                 1.7                  20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.6          41.5      40.1                 37.7                  35.5
*                                 SECONDARY                            24.0         19.8       18.7                 20.2                  25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          13.0/h       20.7/i    24.0                 52.1                  73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.5           2.6       2.B/c                1.5                   9.8
RAUIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0         17.1       65.8                 35.4                 116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          1.6       9.4                  3.2                  37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    13.2           ..       13.7                16.4                  53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8             3.O0J     2.4                  3.6                   2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.7        17364.1   22717.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     8.6          9.3       10.2                 29.5                  33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               61.0          59.0      57.0                 70.0                  52.2
INDLUSTRY (PERCENT)                 18.0         19.0       20.0                 15.0                  17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  31.5         28.7       27.7                40.0                  38.5
MALE                                   55.2         50.4       47.2                51.8                  50.5
FEMALE                                  5.7          5.5        5.9                23.8                  26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5          1.7        1.8                  1.0                  1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/k         17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.3/k         41.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.47ik          8.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17. 5/k        20.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..        68.0/i   176.0                 133.8                 194.7
RURAL                                  ..        47.07T   122.0                 111.5                 155.1
ESTLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US0 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..         34.0/i    88.0                   ..                 178.2
RURAL                                  ,,        22.071    58.0                    ..                 164.9
ESTLIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
RSAN                                   ..        42.0/i    32.0                  43.8                  24.4
RURAL                                  ..        43.0/i    29.0                  51.7                  41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
amorg the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /g 1973;
/h 1962; /i 1972; /j 1968; /k 1964.
May, 1982



'-30-
ANNEX I
DFNTOSOF SOCIAL I0010A000                                                                Page    3;
tot_i    tobohaaaao    totoaoooo.olroobtoa                                         oloafoadette,thoalototobtroooolto
e1tilca. oat-  to o-oito   ood-Ts                    i.ditdo  l-otaooa, d0 oh-oecttott  et-oao  .eJ-t dil-feat-o  b--ee   -t-toe-
Tbcoorooce  goao000,Slolcoao.o  too  g    af>oaoKo. o.>ot               llloaaottoygooroiohatoOogoco..1,J-oo-h-rt-ooa   tatiOr.op
0000(ohotar      ti-a                                                                         Poo-tfto-   SaIel aroth   tht,co   ood-Ppoedo  (otl
tfo   a       I_toooof   aaof-  _00 ottoot o'   o  000   It  ftaoe; 1979 Sate.                 hbatataooooeai--t..aotaaOOtoool-onnlatto
100' 7010110>55  -191toooayoo   otaata aoooontecbt  tboa.  cb-doe.fte  re  ot  oold.. .ocal.h......l...boa.oIF , lcoc  o
GNPatERo=                N  -o oeooooaao..oaatatloaoASt    ,(97-f  toaSt 190.anadaeottt-tttoaatlea                                                   h.by .oo-- jnl~dtott
1970.. .o 092. ae.edlhaaltat,oot,a-Oeoo.olooototcta
laot  adpcoloa  oaedtng  .  aSUal tay lte              b-toaatl
add10C   sttln5   Ob2010-00  a   oaoolt.    eat00    ott   te                                   oa  tooo   r,  oyol o_l   oaplo  pl8tetlbttoa
efootoy)  0 koS~oaoa   Tco.  etaooafo  aio 92  17,ao17                                      ett.i-dlte   oool  aeatc       tl    dtttl
too.                                                                                  Adaiaotoooparfaaol-aldoodt-  d-Ttoooeo Ioosooaoooott
total Opjaao 0, otto Ooao  000 ao..ol    t  of  il   197O >,  ood 1900            00.h0
dao.                                                                                    oeeaSbaolooe'loafoo-s--roosfoI-oal,o0ao,ocaP                                   l 
Othofooooo.tooce.caoa.   -oLI    to-,   oot.  pp~,atlo,ehooe-tSedooieoaoa- o.pctatdo daa Ilyeoah.aol-oot OtOt
la- or   o                                                                                                                                           _ddatto  tocootot.aootlo.0dl  t   tl   al    el.atooe  0   ogctyo   afoth   -lddo
aeogooooe;lb.000,-a  Sfo'n..obosoolfoe-ooool- ootpoooa
,o.looototo-'oaoeeoto   ter    eto    aeloho    oool-otgno
Oooaltnalt-oe,poaoo,a>o                                         obojoflbttproatoo-                                dlded tob totd,b  aodoo   ooytdaoto
000   or.actyoedo    o.to.ooott    dttooaatoaaSiatgo, l oae -hoIolr.latloo hoLoono-y.                                       ooottoo     -.co
?t.o.coraa .oe      .                                                                 .....lototo    ofootoe  eo'aeo  oodptot
fooll  ycPool      -o.    o.nda    Otoyt.0I..oeo.rn..o
tob   000   eaooOooo 0a,a,ooOOlOtOO-00>               t          oIfln i-bl-dt
otdtoootf  0000ttnoo.ooo-oaoo...05(atooItoIttoooo
bolooo.>l00~   o~at0oroo.ootOraooootboo                                              olortool-ot. o-ottl,ao-oooalea                                    rdetl
to-boototota toO              bdo,o,.at otatt,o-                           .aotolttoalaootbtrnot 00   00   ecgeora,t
no o00 f.lo,oot   ooloo                           to.otoe iao  olooae    thale-oteoooco'01rc
ni                                                                                                 P~~~~ooorto 0000 tto0ltoo-oaeppia.oea rbo'.ot.olbo ao
no    I  ooob to. oleoto.oooo.lontaotoop.oe-0oo0tcroobol~ota,ea0eota.el                          C Pot..o.a.         ,tooo
It dtj., ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 00  ontncato   ottt   ooo aaooon0000,oOooot
0Otffi7~~ffia0o .  oaattt'-... 7.00.-..t..ric ....0    ete  loccto ....o.t.                                                 .t    tototattrat
011 Soooacto                                                                     otoalol.l'o toro   fgo,  ooeopontoo-olrtaerognop,li
Ooo  t o  to  G                                                                              too oh'dp
00  ta   p root 00  00000  olo  e~ o0  -t~acre   oO  Vrolotl eotlO tO       0000  0 o   ato-nctyl totoooj      oo'ttio
I         Io.                                            .o-ooocoo   o..t..otbroooea0oce.eratt
0et   t   olto   aoS  ocooooo 0000  ,rooootootllo-o         etyots  deaoteooetoeooSeflot-                    -->ota
o"L    In-Saooda                                                                            ooleoaoto              poato.oooedofoary-oCa
Popla   j5fterooo   trat-.bldoo   reoo,,oOtoStafS-           oloooftdoooda-leoloOraeo  ton.cbro totohtaot,o
leo-os aoo  1960-S, '9f0  75, o97  d910-f                                                  Pe  oe   ae10rr000otlalo                         atoroo    ofte 00
ttoe le''Sat ItO  ttoar) -oo-oalbo_      olohoot a   h0od  to-ye.co..tlo   ettO,  ajtftoc;a  1,   ohttt . ttaoP aod,_
oolottor96, 1000,- 100    79 --d10  Saa.toldoyteotyo
ltooo redo-   O.r:ooaor,-0tootChildo-  oot1 yttosro   Ieodtoa                                                           -iaooor(ttloatoplaeby -otO-Ietootosttot
cooeot  0,1971  .ad   lot    n toodo. oaootoT_pall  Ioor.-o    0                                                                           . ooo -eoo;--lo    on
aetlylottj0   oOootooo00.to   ltoido.raooooa-ott                                       'lettee,1-load_toatotrra_ot
atId         ao.ono0000ol'oofd                                                                                      gtoaaorto,r7ro,oioraoe,da
00000P101000;1900       90    d18   -                                                             4be  00010   Otoofac   t  oo   ooteo      a
CltdeoLtffodfeor :.-do          )  Rtt109ll)              oo~eo o.a000                          tteoeeR-.toeotttrdoooeh--tpacprt                   nod  r00odit
Otoooito,doo  rado ba'oo . torool otoaortt ptaooo  00 -' to. 5. a-itgao- ott1000-toO                                     ...tOOt
o --a1t  -lo-d-lo- -.  oiol. --foect.... ....la....otlilo.ti-Oddb,l,r,el.....I.I1 
iantootoath       co- ooat.    -otbo   1-...-,  91   ardl   l-tdaa                          0tlLeo  tooi el ,oho-.stdo         toraei alto  of           .....O alt T,o
fo   aooa  ttrb-i           1-4   Q          .-i 000aottt--eooeto-onoa toact0o-o-otpotdoe>lgOotno,0  ...nt,t.
enotqoat,ofe~odooitoaaaoer.oto    eraan                                               oteotppoLoroaleeo    Of                     d.oooto      Iro.iont -er
100  ay.   ooodola000. tO  -ooooo  doeool  otoo tOt.  opor  boe   no  ctoooelto    60,tfh   nd  900   ata
FOOD 000  erdotogs   ot.t   ftooyeif.ontttadseS,                                                   iaetto         tl- roal -lhor- oo-otooai-                -t
an -olSoa)oto  ofh  1 po,aeaaoa   - et o--ijo  -t 00cntbo  atot.1  e'                      teetttf   eetcdgad                    ecoee  ftallboIo
.oaho  . Ionel  r50d-60   2             16, 1970 at! 1007 da-ef-1.19,- lfI en  1950  deo'
- rool- a  t.o  -e  o-    Ntorl Ito0t0tto eofoet-                                         dotItoaf ocet-oo  Oot9o-p d dO t              ho,ol, odf, tt  -tfto
do.O0hs, oo- l.bl     P----ooroo1  rsatob'b  ItoooooOoooo-e                                  Otroototnt -aa.~6,at.otdtrol00lifottOoo O
allo     d LoIhffadea --rta'ortfot              d ttRd.ooloatoalo--                      19tt0,ootlaabtototeb.o..                       o.i1'nf-       iosptltaoo
Ittooto.00,         FA -a000.tdntoLt.ofoete.lloaoi         lfsaaad-floo.caag-ae-o-o.vIfooa   othpoto,;   7do0na.de9oeod . 
aod  00 aeooooe   t   0t,,'oftio-    prooeoty %0i0o00   I1                                   lteeetettry     r - to -eneoof-ttiolnoaofa.... i
-d0, -'o ai ootio- ooIa.-t.ot d1l.i  aotdpo          _.hoO,tt    too-0o000-d                              tSto  Ioa -oInof0p.ro-l.gcIfteo . oo1,-tflrdore
-lh,,d 1-1  19oofo1f-65       flod 90o9a.ooleo9e6                                                             atoor
:000 aotaalo cod 0o.lno    -d orec   It Jo,  7tIt     O   r    fI  aa         lotO2 0010I0d190   -
P_0-dlodaOpl-  iotf'o.- oefb_oootd'    boooLl,ltab --oooooaif                                  Peoatdtfto-itOocf,tooctod f.t t. ttaht.b
cOo  oaedeolotd   oo .aaotao -ly,  f  -dfl0aSl9fO-d. -  b-lotoo-ttatldo.,                                                                fl,l  ,b          f.. 
of ale  per tboo      61oa,O tte 9lrbo  l-ft  00770  o   Itdt                                 Oooolot.tete1  cocowe le         ocatore t-l batobaeo
ier ot teoplo(toto.  oclet  a1 I'rll,I               9 otltoe 0ateceatoat                     ot97cdebl-
pettfge  IteI  caeoo    ool.aa-I  co -oroetecedaahllc                                          peheoaol thoc   noeooty              be  loIo   etodto     totarlt
fo,el -00aepa fra-   t   aot~ to.- _9-o tLi20oaeeIa     foe rh                         hto -eoetdjocwototae   etotlnn.tshtc
otedtcdoheng.lt',  rocoohecoes  attoo ldat.   o  ool aec             tal- cc TAREooT   h G    ea.-esoSoeo-  ee    oo0leoro      ra
oacoootab-le         bieaooll  cola-    A'e tho  toosSt  ot yeo- c  of  -be hioehLd             ond catel      .eceta   pn...tloena!tcl   hoce"hn
dooebtsttoe960,1o70odoa1taa0tdoaoh-aecaetada    Inetotlnete                                    oore
lelly' etOOOttOOdO.                            -~l  Ib11                    Y       ~        i-       b-il  I-
Oota,-ePto-leoote   date    6(o'co            70t a d, 19olaoltntty                                                                 thai,icI -o,eel-atei-
Ll-sedte,alpo  aelectocanadccelacedycoct adie-0to                             N-ctae
Peealatie  tee PtIl-cct --dplalodite by,~0-                    f                                1-abetad c--l.aI.,0000-tteael  ae_d OcIa  Dat  Dnt
ota_  qalIed team a -e oi- t- e          _e alnec ate jee. E_IcecenaSo l-Ab.1                                                          Ao-eloei  cad. LIejotl       -pe-b-t
Iteatepet--aoe -Iw Pereo    t-`PEpethlna dt_de   by eaSer faI   hocotelo                  an   url P        -   f(                           yd.. 1981      -
mal ha - fwalet gedaPeaaae,   a                  Inf' ae hec  doaytlie  wt-eec eed
PIcetog aao"latiea



-31-                                                      ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMIENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82                                ANNUAIL RATE OF GROtWTH1 (%, constant prices)
US$ billion    %                   1969/70-1974/75  1975/76-1980/81  1981/82
GNP at Market Prices               31.68      100.0                      3.5                6.3            5.0
Gross Domestic Investment           5.14       16.2                     -5.5                5.4           11.9
Gross National Saving               3.70       11.7                     -2.1                8.2            8.0
Current Account Balance            -1.53       -4.8
Resouirce Gap                      -3.48      -11.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980/81 /a
Value Added           Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
US$ million    %    US$ million    %    US$ million    7
Agriculture                        7,825       29         13.5       51          580        58
Industry                           6,827       26          5.'       2(>       1,3lI       [31
Services                          12,053       45          7.9       29        1,526       152
Total/Average                  26,705       100         26.6     100        1,004       100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverment                                Central Government
(Rs billion)             % of GDP                (Rs billion)             % of GDP
1981/82       1981/82   1977/78-1981-82          1981/82       1981/82   1977/78-1981/82
Current Recepts                     51.2          15.9           15.8                39.0          12.1             12.4
Current Expenditures                44.4          13.8            14.1               34.1          10.6             10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              6.8           2.1             1.7                4.9           1.5              1.8
Capital Expendtures                 27.0           8.4             9.3               21.2           6.6              7.4
External Assistance (net)            6.3           2.0            2.8                 6.3           2.0              2.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82 h/
Money and Quasi Money                          33.1      41.6      51.7     63.7      76.5      90.7    103.5    114.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)             17.5      22.7     29.5      34.3      43.1      48.1      54.1      59.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)          19.7      23.1     30.1      35.7      42.7      50.6      58.7      70.7
Money and Quasi Money as % GDP                 29.5      31.5      34.6     36.7      39.0      38.3      37.0      35.5
W4holesale Price Index (1969/70=100)          211.3    229.4    255.3    271.4    289.7    316.7    358.8    398.6
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                          23.6       8.6      11.3      6.3       6.7       9.3      13.3      11.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)             21.2      29.4      18.8     16.6      25.6      11.6      12.5      10.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector (nross)          -3. I     i7.3      3.        _        1' .n     i2.1      in., 2IO...4
/a  Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Serious underenumeration may exist, especially of women.
/b Provisional
Fehruary 1983



-32-
ANNEX I
Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US$ million)                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGING 1978/79-1981/82)
1976/77   1977/78  1978/79   1979/80  1980/81 /a  1981/82                                           US$ million           I
Exports of Goods, NFS                1,404      1,651     2,107      2,955     3,461         2,966         Raw Cotton                        260.5            11.5
Imports of Goods, NFS                2,877     3,297      4,485      5,709     6,466         6,613         Cotton Yarn                       181.3             8,0
Cotton Cloth                      230.4           10.2
Resoturce Gap (deficit = -)         -1,473    -1,646    -2,378    -2,754   -3,005           -3,847         Rice                              382.7            17.4
All Other Commodities          1,196.9            52.9
Interest Payments                     -172       -183      -261       -285      -357          -453           Total                         2,261.R          10.
Workers' Remittances                    578     1,166     1,395      1,748     2,097         2,225
Other Factor Payments (net)              15        62        134       151        274           345                 EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Net Transfers                            ..        ..         ..
US$ million
Balance on Current Acc)unt          -1,052      -601    -1,110   -1,140         -991        -1,530
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed            8,813.9
Direct Foreign Investment                ..        ..         ..        ..         ..            ..        Non-,uaranteed Private Debt /e                      .2.
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                        961       841        813     1,134        956         1,102           Total Outstanding and -    isu rs'I        8,813.9
Amortization                        -175      -122       -235      -310       -516          -492
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 If
Sub-Total                            786        719       578        824       440           610                                                     Percentage
Transactions with IMF/b                  44        41       -14         78       315            358
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed               12.2
Other Items n.e.i. Ic                    24       163       238        600       527            364        Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Increase in Reserves (-)                198      -322       308       -362      -291            198          Total                                         12.2
Gross Reserves (year end)/d            372        694        386       748     1,039           841         IBRD/IDA LENDING (DECEMBER 1981) (USs million)
IBRD     IDA
Official Gold (year end;
million ounces)                      1.6        1.7       1.8        1.8       1.8           1.8         Outstanding and Disbursed                310.1   908.8
1!ndisbursed                              32.1   505.3
Outstanding, Including 'Jndisbursed 342.2 1,414.1
Fuel and Related Materials
Petroleum Imports                      413        497       539      1,237     1,602         1,683
Petroleum Exports                        27        63         61       178        160           185
Rate of Exchange
Through May 11, 1972    May 11, 1972-Feb. 15, 1973    Feb. 15, 1973-Jan. 7, 1982                   January 8-Aug. 31, 1982 Average
US$ = Rs 4.7619                 US  = Rs 11.00                      US$ = Rs 9.90                         I'SS = Rs 11.46
Rsa  = US$0.2100                Rsl = US$0.0909                      Rsl = US00.1010                       Rs  = 0.087
/a  Government estimate.
/b  Including Trust Fund.
7W   Including net short-term horrowIng ai. ecrror  anal omissions.
/d  Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
7e  Private debt is negligible.
7T  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods, non-Factor services and worker's remittances;
not including short-tern or IMF changes.
Jg  Since January 8, 1982, value of rupee is being managed with reference to a
weighted basket of currencies.
Not available.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1983) /a
(US$ million)
Loan/                                                     (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                   Undis-
Number      Year    Purpose                                Bank   TW       IDA    bursed
Ninety-three loans and credits fully disbursed /b    781.4  32.0    936.1/f
620        1976   Seed Project                            --               23.0    5.2
630        1976   Second Lahore Water Supply               --              26.6    2.2
648        1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)         --              14.0    6.0
1366T      1977   Punjab Livestock Development             --    10.0      --       5.5
678        1977   Third Education                          --              15.0    4.7
751        1977   Hill Farming Tech. Development           --               3.0    1.1
754       1978   Salinity Control & Reclanation           --               70.0   68.2
755        1978   Hazara Forestry                          --               1.7    1.2
813        1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.               --               12.5    6.7
877        1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    --                  60.0   57.7
892        1979   Primary Education                        --              10.0    5.7
922        1979   Sind Agricultural Extension              --               9.0    8.4
968        1980   Third WAPDA Power                        --              45.0   24.3
974        1980   Third Highway                            --              50.0   33.3
1019      1980   PICIC Industrial Development             --               40.0    9.4
1109/e    1981   Vocational Training                       --              25.0   24.4
11137e    1981   Small Industries                         --               30.0   26.5
1157/e    1981   Grain Storage                             --              32.0   30.0
1158/e    1981   Agricultural Research                    --               24.0   23.7
1163/e    1981   On-Farm Water Management                 --               41.0   33.5
1186/e    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)         --               30.0   25.9
2122      1982   Fourth Telecommunication                  40.0            -       35.7
2172      1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5                 --     36.8
2247/c    1983   Reservoir Maintenance Facilities          10.2            --      10.2
2305/c    1983   Agricultural Dev. (ADBP V)                10.0            --      10.0
23247     1983   Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipelines          43.0            --      43.0
1239/e    1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    --                   40.0   38.3
1243 e    1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.          --               14.0   14.0
1256/e    1982   Technical Assistance                     --                7.0    6.3
12787     1982   Eleventh Railway Project                 --               50.0   49.8
1348/c    1983   Lahore Urban Development                 --               16.0   16.0
1350/c    1983   Population                               --               18.0   18.0
1355/c    1983   Coal Engineering                         --                7.0    7.0
13747w    1983   Karachi Water Supply                      --              25.0   25.0
1375/c    1983   Fourth Drainage                          --               65.0   65.0
13807    1983   Agricultural Development (ADBP V)    -                    47.8   47.8
2218       1983   Refinery Engineering Project             12.0            -       10.8
Total                                                     871.9  42.0  1,608.9  837.3
of which has been repaid                               473.1   0.4       34.7
Total now outstanding                                     398.8  41.6  1,787.7
Amount sold                   23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                        --      --       --     --
Total now held by Bank and IDA/d                         398.8  41.6  1,787.7
Total undisbursed                                         146.5   5.5    685.3  837.3
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects
in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/c  Not yet effective.
7R  Prior to exchange adjustment.
7e  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  The principal
is shown in US$ equivalent at the time of negotiation. Disbursed amounts are
computed at the market rate on dates of disbursements.
/f  By using the market rate on dates of disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAK and Credit 1255-PAK (both fully disbursed) is
$42.5 and $77.5, respectively.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business       Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products               0.63      --        0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles               0.75      --        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.        Cement                 5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                  Development
1969-                           Financing               --     0.52       0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles               1.84    0.11        1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products        19.37    0.84      20.21
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                  5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers            1.00    2.92       3.92
1969     Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd.            Pulp and Paper         5.60    0.63        6.23
1979     Milkpak Ltd.           Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.37        2.77
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals        29.00    2.04      31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation       Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78      --        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board         2.70      --        2.70
1981     Habib Arkady           Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17        3.32
1982     Asbestos               Cement                 4.10     --        4.10
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals        87.46    1.56      89.02
Total Gross Commitments                    170.41   11.60    182.01
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales               125.34    1.02    126.36
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC           45.07   10.58       55.65
Undisbursed (including participants)        95.37    0.34      95.71



-35-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
SECOND TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Three months
(b) Agency which prepared project:
Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank, and date of first
Bank Mission to consider project:
November 1982
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
January 22, 1983
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
May 13, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
April 30, 1984
Section II:      Special Bank Implementation Actions
None



-36-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
The price for Toot oil and associated gas would be no less
than that paid to private companies operating in adjacent
areas (paragraph 97).
The following would be additional conditions of effectiveness:
(i) satisfactory arrangements for processing Toot gas have
been finalized (paragraph 76);
(ii)  an agreed reservoir monitoring program for the Toot
field has commenced (paragraph 77); and
(iii)  a subsidiary loan agreement between GOP and OGDC has
been executed (paragraph 92).



_______________________ _            IBRD  17072R
_   _ 0 _2/ 4 2- NW,  TIOOT FIELD-CROSS  SECTION, A-A'  SE   IQ-                          7           4'C'   JUNE 1983
<430                            i          8                                         -          Ps'          4            k                              36'
/      -7,    I, -;                                    22N        - *,*I ;4 ) j t         \
T-*7/                40 5D                           O  Np        p0TISLpAMABAD( op,-.~'y>                                            -
/                  .4                          / T-9         __            __ > tITLjADI'                                                                :
? 9 \ ~~~1/                                      0                       \2                                   ,                     P'L    _   /     .J ¾05  T PEG 
9 0t \ S r 3LE' ________V;_______                             |                   K         h         t          nD d                        Sorgodhai
TOOT FIELD-STRUCTURE ON UNCONFORMITY AT TOP JURASSIC                                     2              r     't.2702
* Frpdcc.ng Well                  ---     FoIt L-,es                                 (7           *  I                                                       *          --
o Abod-eed Poduc-g Well            -  0  Cpn,pj-s  -eter- bs I)-                              ,                                    7                       tF:soI   00
G Drlll'ng Hplp                                    ! 1       2                          -/                                   -           P           j,j 1A           BT
Prpppsed Well L-ot-n                         0,02262cc                                                                0 OGDt                      1        057 062
t.~~~2                        ,m                        S                             Q"\pr  /t'      XJ                             2/fJorKt  o
N'~ ~    ~ :6'rN (2 64'/                                                                                                               l        qO                            30
I S L A M I C    R E P.                                                                     S (,                                           YIt            ,,D
-78'        O   F    I R  A  N                                                                                                                                                          2V_ 4  zP N
KeIot'N' ,2.6/GA 2A                                        Swp_  A  pPp
I                                          -\IVTRAL M                 - ---  9v  /.                        N       D     I    A
-26'                                                                                                              / Bl   VlSNaaoa                                                       6
A/<RAN coA5r RANG'E                             )          >
22'W      ; eOR      RAN                           (           -u                                        J'ocoP 2T'K&  NI         C        T-    g
n y   *  >   ?01    ;:: ; F   cv     Prdscafets wXlf2>~~       ~     ~~iose  IKOg             .000  TFXg  S1 t7ft l;5; <edos dn 3aWeLac
~~~~~~~~~~L tg             s ::A -      2:.     IA I 6 ; v, 66   '6-  57072
N' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~d-  l~bd,h
ce    IIIAI.)~~~~~~~~~ei                                               N~b:
NA/AN COALST P N        A  I            -NT, KG/NAP
5A 11~ ~ ~ ~~~~   AP    
LACTOSe ,NeO2  NATAL -                                  P-Id,                                                     nC    20 i,,prpiip2i2/22
~ CecepelixOfferel  /~/j/NA    AO-:dvl                                                                                    jabe-  I. 0p-Rio :p:
-                                                                                            p7 77,02/p dPio2 .2200 p/TiC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o



