Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4412-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJE'
December 16, 1983
Energy Department (Petroleum Projects)
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-i-
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
PR's/US$    US$/PR's
12.5          0.08
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 inch (in)                                    2.54 centimeters (cm)
1 kilometer (km) = 1,000 meters (m)            0.621 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)                       100 hectares (ha) = 0.3861 sq miles
1 barrel (bbl)                                 42 US gallons = 159.0 liters
BD                                     =       barrels per day
MCF                                    =       1,000 standard cubic feet (SCF) of gas
MMCF                                   =       1 million SCF
MMCFD                                          1 million SCF daily
1 BCF                                  =       1 billion SCF
I TCF                                  =       1 trillion SCF
1 ton (T)                              =       ton per year
1 ton of crude oil equivalent (TOE)  =         1.0 ton of crude oil
41 MCF of natural gas
BTU                                    =       British Thermal Unit
1 kilocalorie (Kcal)                           3.968 British thermal units (Btu)
BHP                                            Brake horse power
1 kilowatt-hour                                1,000 watts-hour
1 megawatt (MW)                        =       1,000 kilowatts (KW)
1 gigawatt-hour (Gwh)                  =       1 million kWh
oAPI                                           American Petroleum Institute (API) degrees
gravity
psi                                    =       pounds per square inch
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB                            Asian Development Bank
ADP                            Annual Development Plan
CIDA                           Canadian International Development Agency
'   D&M                            DeGolyer & MacNaughton
DGER                           Director/Directorate General of Energy Resources
EEC                            European Economic Community
GDC                            Gas Development Corporation
GOP                            Government of Pakistan
LPG                            Liquified Petroleum Gas
NGL                            Natural Gas Liquids
OGDC                           Oil and Gas Development Corporation
POL                            Pakistan Oilfields Ltd
PPL                            Pakistan Petroleum Ltd
SGTC                           Sui Gas Transmission Company
SML                            Sui Main Limestone
SNGPL                          Sui Northern Gas Pipeline Limited
USAID                          United States Agency for International Development
WAPDA                          Water & Power Development Authority
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
SECOND TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.           ENERGY SECTOR ............................................... 1
Background ...........................................1 
Energy Consumption .....1.............................. 
Energy Resources and Supply .......................... 2
Energy Sector Organization and Planning .............. 3
Energy Strategy ...................................... 4
II.          OIL AND GAS SUB-SECTOR ...................................... 6
Background ........................................... 6
Petroleum Production and Reserves              ... 6
Petroleum Prospects ...................... ............. 7
Role of Public and Private Sectors ................... 8
Oil and Gas Pricing .................................. 9
The Bank's Role and Lending Strategy ................ 11
III.         THE PROJECT ................................................ 12
Objectives .......................................... 12
Background .......................................... 12
Phase II Toot Development Program ................... 13
Project Description                  ....                 . 14
Project Implementation                   .        .           15
Project Cost Estimate .....                                ........................... 16
Financing Plan .       ..................................... 17
Prorurement and Disbursement ........................ 18
Reporting Requirements                      . .                20
Ecology and Safety           ........... ......... .20
IV.          THE BENEFICIARY ...........................                         21
Legal Framework and Functions .21
Capital Structure       .      ... o .....                 21
Organization and Management .21
Accounting and Financial Systems .23
Auditing ......23
Insurance .24
This report has been prepared by Messrs. K. Palmer, T. Fitzgerald, M. Wormser
and G. Yuksel of the Energy Department.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
V.           FINANCIAL ASPECTS .......................................... 24
Background and Objectives ........................... 24
Past Financial Status ............................... 24
Pricing Policy and Retention of Earnings ............ 26
Future Investments and Financing Plan ............... 27
Toot Field Financial Analysis ........................ 28
VI.          PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ............................ 30
VII.         AGREEMIENTS REACHED AND RECOHIIENDATIONS ..................... 32
ANNEXES
1.01          Energy Consumption by Sector ......................... 33
1.02          Energy Supply by Source .............................. 34
2.01          Remaining Crude Oil Reserves in Discovered Fields .... 35
2.02          Field-Wise Production of Crude Oil in Pakistan ....... 36
2.03          Proved Gas Reserves ............................... 37
2.04          Production of Gas by Agency .......................... 38
2.05          Petroleum Product Prices ............................. 39
3.01          Phase II Toot Development Program .................... 40
3.02          Oil and Gas Production Forecast Toot Field ........... 45
3.03          Toot Reservoir 'Monitoring Program .................... 46
3.04          Implementation Schedule .............................. 48
3.05          Project Cost Estimate ................................ 49
3.06          Phasing of Expenditures .............................. 50
3.07          Estimated Disbursement of Bank Loan .................. 51
4.01          OGDC Organization Chart .                                   52
4.02          Action Plan for Improvement in OGDC Finances ......... 53
5.01          OGDC Comparative Income Statement .................... 58
5.02          OGDC Balance Sheet ................................... 59
5.03          OGDC Projected Source and Application of Funds ....... 60
5.04          Toot Project Income Statement ........................ 61
5.05          Toot Project Balance Sheet ........................... 62
5.06          Toot Project Source and Application of Funds ......... 63
5.07          Toot Projected Income Statement ...................... 64
5.08          Toot Projected Balance Sheet ......................... 65
5.09          Toot Projected Source and Application of Funds ....... 66
5.10          Toot Project Financial Analysis Assumptions .......... 67
6.01          Toot Project Economic Analysis - Incremental ......... 68
6.02          Toot Project Economic Analysis - Total Project ....... 69
7.01          Selected Documents in Project file ................... 71
IAP
IBRD No. 17072R ...............                                           72



I. ENERGY SECTOR
Background
1.01     Over  the past  decade  Pakistan  has  been  active  in developing  its
indigenous energy resources, particularly natural gas and hydro-electricity,
and thereby limiting oil imports.   Despite these efforts,  the country has
remained heavily dependent on imported oil to meet its primary energy needs.
In FY 81 oil imports totalled US$1.6 billion equivalent to 26% of total
imports.   Furthermore, over the past few years the Government has failed to
respond sufficiently quickly to emerging power and gas shortages, and the
energy  situation  has  deteriorated  markedly.    In  its  dialogue  with  the
Government of Pakistan (GOP), the Bank has stressed the critical importance of
accelerating the exploration for, and development of, domestic energy
resources to substitute for imported oil and the need to encourage greater
private sector participation in the implementation and financing of energy
investments.
1.02     The Government of Pakistan now fully recognizes the urgency of the
situation and has instituted a range of policy reforms which should result in
a considerable improvement in the energy situation over the medium term.
These reforms are reflected in the understandings reached between the Bank and
GOP under the first Structural Adjustment loan, and during the preparation of
the proposed Second Toot Oil and Gas Development Project and the recently
approved Petroleum Exploration Project.
Energy Consumption
1.03     In FY  82  consumption  of  commercial  energy  in Pakistan was  13.7
million tons of oil equivalent (TOE), which is about one-tenth of the world
average per capita consumption and only one half of the per capita consumption
of developing  countries.   Commercial energy accounts for about 60% of the
total, while the balance is derived from non-commercial sources, mainly
firewood, dungcake, bagasse and other vegetable residues.
1.04     Out of the total commercial energy consumption in FY 82, industry
accounted for 31%, transport 20%, power 17% and residential use 13%.   The
transport sector, while responsible for only 20% of total commercial energy
use,  accounts  for  over  60%  of  petroleum  products  consumption.    Rural
households, although relying predominantly on non-commercial energy forms,
account  for almost  90% of  the country's  total kerosene consumption.   The
sectoral allocation of commercial energy consumption is described in greater
detail in Annex 1.01.
1.05     In the period FY 73/82 commercial energy consumption grew at 7% per
annum. Over this period the average energy consumption to GDP ratio was 1.33,
and in the absence of strong conservation measures this ratio is not expected
to change over the 1980's.   If the levels of economic activity envisaged for
the Sixth Five-Year Plan are to be achieved, this implies an average growth
rate in commercial energy demand of over 8% p.a. and a quadrupling by FY 93 of
net oil imports.  However, recent work by energy consultants to GOP indicates



- 2 -
that aggressive demand management programs could reduce the energy consumption
to GDP ratio to about 1.2 by the end of the decade.   This would result in a
net energy saving by FY 93 of about 3 million TOE per year and would be the
largest single contributor to reducing energy supply-demand imbalances in the
economy.
1.06     Recently,  GOP  has  initiated  new  measures  to  encourage  greater
efficiency of energy use, particularly the loss reduction campaign by WAPDA,
increased consumer prices for natural gas and a program of energy audits and
conservation  studies  in  the  industrial  sector.    So  far,  however,  these
measures have been ad hoc; there is a need for a more coordinated national
program of energy demand management and conservation, utilizing both price and
non-price instruments, to achieve a significant reduction in the growth of
energy demand. This issue is being addressed through a conservation component
of the recently initiated refinery project.
Energy Resources and Supply
1.07     Total commercial energy supply in FY82 was 14 million TOE of which
about 4 million TOE was imported oil. During the decade ending FY82 the share
of domestically produced gas and hydel in total commercial energy supply
increased from 46% to 58% and the share of oil dropped to 37%.  Despite this,
the gap between domestic supply and demand for commercial energy widened in
absolute terms and net oil imports increased from 3 million TOE in FY72 to
over 4 million TOE in FY82. Net oil imports in FY82 represented 31% of total
commercial energy supply and almost  90% of total oil supply.   Details of
energy supply by source are summarized in Annex 1.02.
1.08     Natural Gas.   Pakistan has substantial proven gas reserves recently
estimated at 12.9 trillion cubic feet (TCF).   Production in FY 82 was 323
billion  cubic  feet  (BCF)  which  accounted  for  42%  of  commercial  energy
supply. Gas in Pakistan is a very low-cost source of energy, and rapid growth
in production over the past decade (averaging 9% p.a.) has made an important
contribution to limiting oil imports. However, in recent years production has
failed to keep pace with demand, and Pakistan is experiencing increasing gas
shortages particularly in the winter months.   The Government is conscious of
the situation and has evolved, with the assistance of consultants financed by
the Bank, a medium-term gas development plan.   The plan, which will increase
production about 30% by 1986, will involve investments in field development
and transmission exceeding $730 million.   Over 70% of the field development
costs will be financed by private investors.   Despite these investments, gas
demand is expected to exceed supply by a wide margin for the foreseeable
future unless major new gas discoveries  are made.   The gas sub-sector  is
discussed in more detail in Chapter II.
1.09     Oil.    Known  domestic  oil  reserves  are  modest,  with  recoverable
reserves estimated at about 95 million barrels.   In FY 82, production was
about 10,800 barrels per day (BD) primarily from the Meyal field in the
northern Potwar basin.   In the next  few years  production  is expected  to
increase slighty as programs to accelerate development of proven fields are
implemented, but this would still leave the country dependent on imports for
over 85% of its oil consumption.   Furthermore, production would then decline
relatively rapidly as the larger fields are depleted. Sustained increases in
oil production will depend on significant new discoveries. The prospects for
oil discoveries are discussed in more detail in Chapter II.



- 3 -
1.10     Electric Power.   In FY 82, the installed hydel generating capacity
was 1847 MW from which 9.4 billion KWH were generated accounting for 16.2% of
commercial energy supply and 54% of total power generated.   The installed
capacity of thermal power plants in FY 82 was 2122 MW from which 8 billion KWH
were generated. In the decade to FY82 power demand grew at about 9% p.a. and
is  expected  to  increase  at  about  10%  p.a.  over  the  next  ten  years.
Investments in the power sector in the Sixth Five-Year Plan are projected to
exceed US$6 billion or 75% of the total allocation to the energy sector.
Installed hydel generating capacity is expected to increase from about 1900 MW
in FY82 to about 3100 MW by FY88 while thermal capacity over the same period
will increase to about 5500 MW.   Thermal generation until recently was based
almost exclusively on gas-fired plants, but with increasing gas shortages,
most of the new thermal plants are to use much more expensive fuel oil and/or
coal which will have a major impact on power generating costs.
1.11     Coal and Nuclear.   Total recoverable reserves of coal are estimated
at 640 million tons, of which only 20% are proven.  Most of the proven coal
reserves are of poor quality, and their economic potential is uncertain. Coal
production of 1.65 million tons p.a. (90% of which is used for brick making)
supplied only 5.4% of commercial energy in FY 82.   The share of coal in
domestic commercial energy supply has declined continuously over the past
twenty years because of an abundance of inexpensive natural gas.  In view of
the emerging gas shortages, GOP is now placing greater emphasis on the
exploration and development of domestic coal.   Pakistan has one operational
nuclear power station (137 MW) which provided 0.3% of commercial energy
supplies in FY 82; a second 900 MW unit is to be commissioned in  the early
1990's.
Energy Sector Organization and Planning
1.12     Operational  responsibility  for  the various  energy  sub-sectors  in
Pakistan is divided among several public and private sector entities. The Oil
and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) is the public sector entity responsible
for oil and gas exploration and development.  A number of international oil
companies  are  exploring  for  petroleum  under  joint  venture  concession
agreements with OGDC and GOP. The national private sector companies involved
in oil and gas production are Pakistan Petroleum Ltd (PPL) and Pakistan
Oilfields Ltd  (POL).   POL accounts for most domestic oil production (from
Meyal)  and PPL produces most of the gas  (from Sui).   There are three oil
refineries in Pakistan, two in the private sector and one in the public
sector; two of the three oil distribution and marketing companies are also
State-owned.     Natural  gas  purification,   transmission  and  distribution
functions are largely in the public sector. The Sui Gas Transmission Company
(SGTC) purifies Sui gas and transmits it to the south of the country where it
is distributed by public sector companies, Karachi Gas and Indus Gas.   Sui
Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd (SNGPL) transmits and distributes gas in the
north.   Responsibility for hydel and thermal power generation lies with two
autonomous  government  organizations:    Karachi  Electric  Supply  Corporation
(KESC) for the Karachi area and the Water & Power Development Authority
(WAPDA) for the rest of the country.   The state-controlled Pakistan Atomic
Energy Commission (PAEC) is responsible for nuclear power generation.   Coal
exploration and development are undertaken by the state mining organization,
Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation (PMDC) and through leases granted to
the private sector.



- 4 -
1.13     The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources which controls, inter
alia, OGDC and PMDC, is responsible for planning and policy making for oil,
gas and coal.   All matters relating to power generation are regulated by the
Ministry of Water and Power, which controls WAPDA and KESC.  The Ministry of
Production  controls  the  public  sector  refinery.    Hence,  three  Federal
Ministries are involved in different aspects of energy policy formulation.
Overall authority for national energy policy formulation and coordination is
entrusted to the National Energy Policy Committee (NEPC), co-chaired by the
Ministers of Finance and Petroleum.  The role of coordinating energy planning
has now been assigned to the Planning and Development (P&D) Division of the
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Affairs. Energy pricing decisions
are submitted for approval to the Ministry of Finance, and in the case of
major decisions to the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC) of the Federal
Cabinet.
1.14     The large number of organizations involved both at the policy and
implementation level, and the mix of public and private sector participants
make  energy  planning  difficult.   The unwieldy organizational structure of
Ministries with conflicting  interests  and views make resolution of complex
policy decisions  difficult.   This  is compounded by a shortage of skilled
manpower in some of the Ministries.   GOP has become increasingly aware of
these problems over the past few years.   The establishment of the NEPC has
provided a forum for resolving inter-ministerial differences on policy
issues. GOP has also increasingly sought technical assistance for a number of
studies which will provide a firmer basis for policy and planning decisions.
GOP commissioned consultants to assist in preparing the energy component of
the Sixth Five-Year Plan as well as a 20-year perspective plan.  In addition,
a number of sub-sector studies have been or are being implemented.
1.15     Energy policy and planning in Pakistan is in a state of transition.
Until recently, thinking was dominated by a perception that Pakistan had
surplus natural gas.   Consequently, gas prices were kept very low deterring
exploration for additional reserves and resulting in a rapid growth of demand,
with gas displacing alternative fuels (including domestic coal) in most uses
including power generation.  While a shortage of liquid fuel was recognized,
inappropriate producer price arrangements resulted in inadequate investment in
increasing production from proven oil fields.   Emerging gas shortages were
recognized too late, and GOP policy was initially slow to adjust to the new
circumstances.   However, over the past two years, GOP has clearly recognized
the magnitude of the energy problem, and several important initiatives have
been taken to increase domestic energy supply including rationalizing the
level and structure of gas producer and consumer prices; encouraging greater
private sector participation in energy exploration and development; and
strengthening medium-term public sector energy planning to ensure required
investments are undertaken on time.
Energy Strategy
1.16     Various  studies  of  Pakistan's  future  energy  supply  and  demand
prospects have been undertaken recently.   Although these studies differ in
detail  the  broad  picture  that  emerges  is  clear.    Without  major  policy
initiatives, net oil imports are projected to double by FY89 and quadruple by
FY93.   This would impose severe pressures on the balance of payments that
could seriously impair the prospects for continued rapid economic growth. On



the other hand, with vigorous policy initiatives on both the supply and demand
side, substantial improvements in the domestic energy balance can be achieved
although even then net energy imports are projected to double over the next
decade.   To achieve the needed improvements several policy objectives have
been identified by GOP:
(i)     energy management  and  conservation programs  to reduce the
growth  in  demand  through  price  and  non-price  policy
instruments;
(ii)    increased emphasis on the development of renewable energy;
(iii)   accelerated development of proven oil and gas fields and
intensified  exploration  for  additional  domestic  energy
reserves including oil, gas and coal;
(iv)    increased  participation  of  private  sector  companies  in
financing and implementation of energy investments.
1.17     The investment requirements of the energy sector will be very large
in the next decade. The Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY84-88) indicates that energy
investment requirements by the public sector will exceed US$8 billion, of
which about half would be in foreign exchange. Over 80% of the total would be
taken up by power generation and transmission.
1.18     During  the  past  year,  GOP  has  taken  several  important  policy
initiatives  to  accelerate  exploration  and  development  of  domestic  energy
resources. A gas development strategy has been developed with assistance from
the Bank designed to accelerate the development of proven gas fields.   The
three-year investment program to increase gas production by 264 MMCFD of Sui
quality gas will cost about $730 million.   The development of domestic coal
resources is being given additional priority; accelerated coal exploration is
underway with assistance from the Bank, the feasibility of Lakhra coal
development is being re-assessed and the mineral legislation is to be reviewed
to ensure maximum access  to the sub-sector by private capital.   Important
steps (described in Chapter II) have also been taken to accelerate petroleum
exploration and development of known oil fields.
1.19     While significant steps forward have been taken, important policy and
planning  issues  remain  to be  resolved.   The shift away from a period of
abundant, cheap gas will require development of a coordinated fuel policy to
minimize  the  cost  of energy  to the economy.   The future of domestic and
imported coal as fuels for power generation needs to be clarified and will
have an important impact on the location and design of future thermal power
plants.    Accelerated  exploration  for  oil  and,  more  particularly,  gas  is
urgently required as well as active consideration of developing known low-
quality gas fields previously considered uneconomic.   The power sector will
have to plan for a transition away from cheap gas to more expensive fuels,
taking into account  the implications  for power tariffs and the demand for
electricity.   The medium term national energy plan now in preparation is to
serve as the focus for coordinating these energy policy and planning
activities.



- 6 -
II. OIL AND GAS SUBSECTOR
Background
2.01     Pakistan is a small oil producer with production in FY82 averaging
about 11,000 barrels per day (BD) or 10% of domestic oil requirements.   Oil
was first discovered in 1915 in the shallow Khaur field in the northern Potwar
basin by POL (at that time Attock Oil).  Prior to World War II, several other
small fields in the same area were brought on production, but they are now
largely depleted.   With the exception of one recent small discovery,  the
entire oil production comes from the Potwar basin.
2.02     Pakistan  is  a major  gas  producer  with  one  of  the  largest  gas
transmission systems of any developing country.   In FY82 average production
was 323 billion cubic feet (BCF) equivalent to about 50 million barrels of
oil. Gas was first discovered in the fifties in the large Sui and Mari fields
which together still account for almost 90% of total gas production.
Petroleum Production and Reserves
2.03     Proven remaining reserves of crude oil and condensate in Pakistan are
estimated to be about 95 million barrels.   Individual fields are very small
with original reserves ranging from a high of 50 million barrels down to only
a few million barrels.   The majority of these fields are located in the
northern Potwar basin where drilling conditions are very difficult and the
reservoirs deep.   The largest producing field is Meyal in the Potwar basin
with remaining proven reserves of 28 million barrels, followed by the Toot
field with reserves of about 14 million barrels.   The Dhodak field, a gas-
condensate reservoir discovered by OGDC in 1976 but which has still not been
developed, contains the largest recoverable oil reserves of any known field in
Pakistan(about 34 million barrels).   The Khaskeli field, discovered by Union
Texas in 1981, is a small field with reserves estimated to be less than 10
million barrels. Details of proven oil reserves are summarized in Annex 2.01.
2.04     Total crude oil production in Pakistan over the period FY77-81 was
static at about 9,900 barrels per day (BD) representing less than 10% of the
crude oil requirements of the domestic market. In FY 82 production increased
to about 10,800 BD as production from the new Khaskeli field and additional
Toot wells came on production.   The Meyal field, operated by POL, produced
about 7,500 BD in FY 82 (70% of the total) but recently the field's production
has  fallen  to  about  5,500  BD,  and  water  production  has  increased
significantly.   The Toot  field,  operated by OGDC,  has recently reached a
production rate of about 2,600 BD.    Production from the Khaskeli field is
currently about 4,000 BD.   Details of production by field are summarized in
Annex 2.02.
2.05     Total original proven gas reserves in Pakistan are estimated at 16.4
trillion cubic feet (TCF), and remaining proven reserves are 12.9 TCF. Sui is
the largest field with remaining reserves of 8 TCF accounting for 62% of the
country total. The second largest field, Mari, estimated to contain remaining



- 7 -
reserves of 4 TCF, was developed by a local subsidiary of Esso Eastern."L The
Sui and Mari fields combined account for over 90% of total proven gas reserves
in  Pakistan.    During  the  1950's,  PPL  discovered  several  smaller  fields
containing mostly poor-quality gas, none of which are presently producing.
More recently, OGDC made one significant gas discovery at  Pirkoh in 1977 and
also discovered the Dhodak gas-condensate field in 1976. Field locations are
indicated on the attached map (IBRD No. 17072(R)) and details of proven gas
reserves are summarized in Annex 2.03.
2.06     Gas production  increased  rapidly  over  the past  decade  at over  9
percent per annum.   By FY 82, total annual gas production was equivalent to
about 50 million barrels of oil, i.e., more than 50% of the country's total
oil reserves.    In FY 82, the Sui field contributed 74% of total production
and Mari 14% with most of the remainder produced as associated gas from the
Potwar oil fields.  Details of gas production by producer is given in Annex
2.04.
Petroleum Prospects
2.07     Pakistan  has  good  prospects  for  the  discovery  of  additional
hydrocarbons,  particularly natural  gas.   The geology  is conducive  to the
generation and accumulation of hydrocarbons with suitable source rocks,
reservoir rocks and traps throughout the country. More than a dozen prominent
structures in the gas-prone foothills belt are untested, and six one-well gas
discoveries have not been fully evaluated. Since the fifties, exploration in
gas-prone areas ceased because there was a surplus of gas relative to domestic
demand.
2.08     Oil prospects in Pakistan are more elusive.   The majority of known
oil fields are in the Potwar basin which, because of the small field size and
high cost of development, is of little interest to international oil
companies. Outside the Potwar basin the geologic evidence suggests that oil,
as well  as gas,  should  be generated.   The recent discovery of the small
Khaskeli field by Union Texas was important because it confirmed that oil
generation did take place in the south.   However,  the search for oil will
require considerable additional seismic work and drilling to properly evaluate
the potential.  The Government plans to undertake a new exploration promotion
program, with assistance from the Bank, designed to encourage increased
exploration by international oil companies.
2.09     In the absence of new oil discoveries, domestic oil production over
the next decade is not expected to increase. Although accelerated development
of proven fields may increase production somewhat over the next few years, the
production decline from these fields later in the eighties is expected to be
rapid.    Even  if  the  Dhodak  gas-condensate  field  is  developed  soon  and
condensate production reaches the expected 5000-7000 BD, Pakistan's total oil
production in FY90 is expected to be little higher than at present.
Negotiations were recently completed to transfer Mari field ownership to a
Pakistani company in which the private sector Fauji Foundation will own 40% of
the shares, OGDC 20% and GOP 40%.



-8-
Role of Public and Private Sectors
2.10     Until the early sixties, petroleum exploration and development was
carried out by foreign oil companies.  However, about 1960 there was a sharp
downturn in exploration activity. The oil companies viewed the Potwar fields
as too small and costly to warrant further exploration, and south of the
Potwar the basins were judged gas-prone in a country where, following the
discovery of the large Sui and Mari fields,  there was surplus gas.   In the
early sixties, following the withdrawal of most foreign oil companies, GOP
established OGDC to continue exploration with Soviet technical assistance.
Drilling initially focussed on the oil-bearing Potwar basin resulting in the
discovery of Toot. Although OGDC's progress in drilling wells was slow, they
met with some success discovering Dhodak and Pirkoh as well as developing
Toot.
2.11     Following  the  1974  oil  price  increase,  the Government  sought  to
accelerate exploration by inviting foreign oil company participation on a
joint venture basis.   This new policy (described below) was successful in
stimulating increased exploration activity. The Government strategy has been
to focus OGDC activity on the gas-prone areas and Potwar basin, of minimal
interest to foreign oil companies, while making other areas readily available
to foreign oil companies on reasonable terms.
2.12     Private Sector.  In 1976 the terms on which new foreign and domestic
private sector oil companies could participate in petroleum exploration and
development were revised.  An attractive package of incentives and assurances
was designed applicable to all new exploration license holders.   The basic
framework, established under the Pakistan Petroleum (Production) Rules,
provides for the grant of exploration licenses and, in the event of a
commercial discovery, a mining lease.  Investors participate as joint-venture
partners with OGDC and/or GOP.   The State contributes  a small portion of
exploration  costs  (usually  2.5  -  10%)  with  an  option  to  increase  its
participation (usually up to 50%) following commercial discovery. In the most
recent agreements there is also provision for a negotiable percentage of
additional equity to be transferred to the State once an agreed rate of return
on investment has been achieved.
2.13     The  non-financial   contract   terms   provide   the  investor  with
appropriate assurances concerning, inter alia, rights to export oil, foreign
exchange  convertibility,   control  of  operations  and  dispute  settlement
procedures.  The financial terms provide for crude oil to be priced at world
prices less a domestic market discount (usually 10-15%) on domestic sales with
a limit on the share of production to which the discount applies.   A 12.5%
royalty and standard income tax apply but there is a limit on total payments
to the State which are not to exceed 55% of net income. To ensure flexibility
of terms, GOP left the work commitments, domestic market discount and
participation percentages to be negotiated on a case-by-case basis.
2.14     The new policy, initiated in 1976, was successful in attracting about
a dozen foreign oil companies.   Although exploration activity did increase,
the only success to date has been the small Khaskeli discovery by Union
Texas.   At present, only two of the new entrants have active work programs,
while the remainder are either inactive or have relinquished their licenses.



- 9 -
2.15     Over the past 18 months, at the urging of the Bank, the Government
and OGDC have made further attempts to stimulate greater private sector
participation.   Eleven blocks under license to OGDC were offered to private
sector oil companies on attractive terms.   To maintain maximum flexibility,
work programs and financial terms were left open and companies were invited to
submit  proposals.    Unfortunately,  in  the  current  depressed  exploration
environment,  the  industry  response  was  disappointing.    Three  blocks  are
expected to be awarded to the Kuwait Petroleum Corporation, but no proposals
were received for the remaining eight blocks.
2.16     Despite sound Government policies, the prospects for private sector
exploration over the next few years are not good. The industry perception of
Pakistan  as   gas  prone"  remains  very  strong  despite  the  Khaskeli  oil
discovery.   Foreign oil companies are not interested in exploration for gas
because of the unique marketing, institutional and financial problems
associated with it.   If private sector exploration is to increase over the
next few years, active promotion efforts by the Government and OGDC designed
to identify and market new oil-prospective areas will be required.
2.17     Public sector.   OGDC is to play an important role in the petroleum
sub-sector, and recently GOP has sought to more clearly define its priorities
and strengthen its capacity.   In the past, OGDC was over committed with the
result that exploration was slow and development of discoveries was delayed
sometimes for many years.   Recently, however, decisions have been taken to
focus OGDC activity on a more limited number of high priority objectives.
Development activity using OGDC's own resources will be restricted to Toot and
the Pirkoh gas field.   Present plans are for the Dhodak gas-condensate field
to be developed  by a private sector oil company acting as operator on a
service contract basis thereby relieving OGDC of day-to-day management
responsibility.   In addition,  OGDC will implement a three-rig exploration
program with the principal focus on gas-prone areas and small structures in
the Potwar which are of no interest to foreign oil companies.   The recent
offering of OGDC areas to foreign oil companies was a pragmatic recognition of
the limits of OGDC's exploration capacity.
2.18     In addition to focussing OGDC activities,  efforts are being made,
with Bank support, to streamline and strengthen the management and technical
capacity of the company,  as well as improve its financial position.   These
objectives, which are an important component of the Second Toot Project, are
discussed in greater detail in Chapter IV.
Oil and Gas Pricing
2.19     The main pricing issues confronting the Government in 1981 were: very
low gas consumer prices which encouraged excess demand despite declining
reserves; low producer prices for oil and gas from producing fields which
delayed development of additional production; and the absence of a pricing
policy for newly-discovered gas which deterred exploration in gas-prone
areas.   Over the past two years, progress has been made towards resolving
these issues by rationalizing the level and structure of oil and gas prices.
2.20     Most petroleum products are covered by government price controls at
ex-refinery and consumer levels.  The average consumer price for oil products
is above the import price with local gasoline prices significantly higher than



- 10 -
import parity (US$1.80 per gallon) while kerosene prices are lower (US$0.83
per gallon).   Current petroleum product prices are shown in Annex 2.05.  Ex-
refinery prices are set to permit the refineries to earn a 15% net return on
paid-up share capital, and any difference between these prices and the
consumer  price  accrues  to  the  budget  as  "development    surcharge."    In
practice, adjustments to ex-refinery prices have not fully reflected increased
costs,  and the system gives  no incentive  for efficient operation.   These
issues are being addressed in the context of a Bank refinery project.
2.21     Producer prices for newly-discovered oil by oil companies operating
under joint-venture agreements are set equal to world prices with a negotiable
domestic market  discount  ranging  from  10% to 40%.   In contrast,  producer
prices for oil from the older Potwar fields, principally Meyal and Toot, have
in the past been set on a cost-plus basis.  The price paid to POL for Meyal
production has long been a contentious issue. It was set in 1976 by agreement
with the producer at US$3.50 per barrel based on a cost-plus formula and fixed
in nominal terms. By 1978, because production was lower and costs higher than
earlier expected, POL was experiencing acute cash flow problems and sought a
further price increase from GOP.   After lengthy negotiations, agreement was
reached in 1981 on a price increase to US$10 per barrel applicable only to
newly  completed  wells.    By  1982,  once  again  the  revised  price  proved
inadequate (because of disappointing well productivity) and POL asked GOP to
abandon cost-plus pricing and treat Meyal production the same as new
discoveries.
2.22     GOP has now agreed to abandon cost-plus pricing for the older fields.
In future, the price of Meyal production will be the world market price less
an agreed 45% discount giving at current world prices an oil price for Meyal
of US$16 per barrel.   This price will vary over time in line with world oil
prices.   This  shift  away  from cost-plus  to market  related pricing is an
important policy improvement.
2.23     In 1981 the average gas consumer price was US$1.10/MCF which was
about  25% of the fuel oil equivalent  price.   Under  the first Structural
Adjustment Loan, GOP undertook to increase the average gas price to two-thirds
of fuel oil parity (about US$2.60/MCP) by 1988.  Since that undertaking was
given the average rupee price has been increased over 80% in three steps to a
current level (after adjusting for exchange rate changes) equal to about 50%
of fuel oil parity.
2.24     Historically,  gas  producer  prices  have  been  set  on  a cost  plus
guaranteed rate of return basis. In 1981 the Sui price, based on a 15% return
on paid-up share capital, was US$0.07/MCF. In 1982, following agreement with
PPL to proceed with major new field investments at Sui and Kandkhot, the
guaranteed rate of return was increased to 25%. Under the revised formula the
Sui producer price was set at US$0.33/MCF in 1982 and is expected to increase
to about US$1.01/MCF in 1985.   While these substantial price increases will
secure the needed field investments, it is unfortunate that the price formula
provides no incentive to minimize costs or to optimize the rate of production.
2.25     To avoid the shortcomings of the Sui price formula, the Bank urged
GOP to price newly produced gas in relation to its economic value, i.e. fuel
oil parity at the burner tip.  While GOP did not agree with this approach it
did introduce a new price formula for newly-discovered gas which would



- 11 -
encourage greater cost efficiency and provide more incentive to increase
production.   A 'base price' would be set at the level judged sufficient to
earn an agreed DCF rate of return based on expected costs and this base price
would be indexed to world oil price movements.   The acceptability of the
formula will depend on flexibility by GOP with respect to the interpretation
of the formula.   Under SAL, GOP has agreed to review with the Bank period-
ically experience with this new formula and if it does not prove successful
further consideration will have to be given to pricing in relation to economic
value.
The Bank's Role and Lending Strategy
2.26     The Bank has  been  involved  in Pakistan's  energy sector  for some
time. WAPDA has been the recipient of three power loans/credits, and a fourth
is being prepared.  SGTC received one loan for a pipeline project.  SNGPL has
received  four  loans/credits,  and  a  fifth  was  recently  approved.    An
engineering loan for upgrading the refinery capacity in Karachi was recently
approved, and a coal exploration credit is being prepared. IFC has made three
loans in the petroleum sector; two to PPL, the Sui gas field operator, and one
to POL, the Meyal oil field operator.
2.27     The Toot oil and gas credit (Cr. 867-PAK), approved in December 1978,
was the first lending operation to OGDC.   The US$30 million IDA credit and
parallel EEC Special Action Credit of $12 million were fully disbursed in
1982.    The  project  was  designed  to  increase  Toot  oil production  and to
strengthen  the implementation  capacity of  the borrower.   Despite drilling
difficulties   (para.   3.03)   and   lower-than-expected   reservoir   quality,
incremental production from the project represents about 80% of total field
production and the economic rate of return of the project was high. Further,
despite initial implementation difficulties, the past eighteen months have
seen a sharp improvement in OGDC performance with reduced drilling time and
four consecutive successful well completions.
2.28     The  role  of  the Bank  through  it's  broad  based  dialogue  in  the
petroleum sub-sector is to assist GOP in developing and implementing a sound
petroleum exploration and development strategy.   Over a period of more than
two years of detailed discussions with GOP substantial progress in this
direction has been achieved. Within the SAL framework, producer and consumer
prices for oil and gas were addressed and significant improvements achieved.
During preparation of SNGPL V a satisfactory medium term gas develoment plan
was evolved and is now being implemented. In the course of preparation of the
second Toot project (and the parallel Petroleum Exploration Project) the
respective roles of the public and private sectors were clarified, new areas
were opened up to private investors and measures initiated to strengthen the
capability of OGDC.
2.29     The role of the Bank in the second Toot oil and gas development
project is to continue supporting the incipient but encouraging institution
building measures already undertaken by OGDC.   The design of the project has
been  significantly  influenced  by  the  dialogue  with Bank  staff.    At  the
technical level it incorporates improved well completion and testing practices
and a comprehensive reservoir monitoring program which will form the basis of
future field development plans.  In addition, the project includes a detailed
financial management action plan to improve management information systems.



- 12 -
Finally the project provides for substantial price increases for Toot oil and
gas with the abandonment of cost-plus pricing and acceptance of price parity
with the private sector.   The significantly improved OGDC financial forecast
should facilitate future commercial borrowing.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01     The main objectives of the project are:
(i)     to accelerate oil and gas production from the Toot field and
optimize the future development program;
(ii)    to   improve OGDC's oil field development practices through
the provision of specialist oil field services;
(iii)   to continue institution building efforts initiated under the
first Toot project to strengthen OGDC's management and
technical capacity; and
(iv)    to  improve  OGDC's  financial  position  and  thereby  reduce
reliance on budget transfers from GOP.
Background
3.02     The Toot field was discovered by OGDC in 1968, and up to 1978 eight
wells had been drilled using mostly Soviet equipment and materials.  Four of
the eight wells were initially completed as producers, of which only three are
currently producing.  The first Toot development project, supported by an IDA
credit (and EEC Credit), started in 1978 and over the next four years eight
additional wells were drilled, of which five were completed as producers. The
remainder were abandoned due to mechanical problems resulting from extremely
difficult drilling  conditions.   In addition,  the quality of the reservoir
proved to be lower than expected, and the incremental production from the
project of about 2,000 BD was well below the 6,000 BD expected at appraisal.
Nevertheless, as noted in para. 2.29, the project was successful in increasing
Toot field production, and OGDC's technical performance improved considerably
over the implementation period. With the exception of some surface facilities
which were deferred because of the lower-than-expected production, the first
project was fully completed in December 1982 with a cost overrun of about 27%.
3.03     Initially, the first project was beset by a host of implementation
problems ranging from drilling difficulties to loss of skilled technical staff
and low morale.   However, over the last 18 months of the project there has
been marked improvement in performance with sharply reduced drilling time and
three consecutive successful well completions.   At the same time, there was
significant  improvement  in  the  management  information,   accounting  and
materials control functions of the company.  Details of these improvements are
given in Chapter IV.
3.04     The reserves of oil and gas in place at Toot have been recently re-
estimated by Intercomp (Consultant, Canada) at 141 million barrels of oil and



- 13 -
296 BCF of associated gas.-L/   Despite  the relatively high number of well
completions, the reservoir behaviour of the field is not completely
understood.   Ultimate oil recoveries,  according to the Intercomp reservoir
model,  are  estimated  to range  from  9.9%  to2/4.1%  depending  on the field
development  and exploitation  scheme  applied.-    The higher recovery rates
would require fluid injection into the reservoir, but the technical and
economic feasibility of such a step cannot be properly evaluated with current
information.   The  consultants  recommended  the drilling of four additional
development wells combined with an intensive reservoir monitoring program to
collect basic reservoir data needed to formulate an optimal future development
program.
Phase II Toot Development Program.
3.05     The Phase II Toot development program,  based on the results of the
Intercomp reservoir study, has three principal elements:
(i)     the drilling of four additional development wells (Nos. 16-
19) to improve reservoir drainage;
(ii)    improving oil and gas handling facilities as well as field
support facilities and infrastructure; and
(iii)   a reservoir monitoring program to collect basic reservoir
data needed for the formulation of the optimum field
development   program,   including   possible   secondary   and
tertiary oil recovery.
3.06     Given the limited reservoir data, future field production cannot be
predicted accurately. The production forecasts on which the project is based
were  derived  from  the  consultant's  reservoir  model  on  the  basis  of
conservative assumptions  about reservoir behaviour.   Incremental production
from the Phase II development program during the next 20 years would be
approximately 2.0 million barrels of oil and 17 BCF of associated gas (2.8
million barrels of oil equivalent) over and above the 6.5 million barrels of
oil and 48 BCF of gas producible without the project.  Annex 3.02 summarizes
oil and gas production profiles with  and without  the project.   The main
benefit of the project derives from an acceleration of oil production and the
increase in natural gas production.
3.07     The  associated  gas  contains  substantial  amounts  of  liquefiable
fractions which could yield approximately 3.2 million barrels of LPG and
NGL.  The most economic solution in the near future for recovering these gas
liquids appears to be to use the excess capacity at the Meyal gas processing
plant owned by POL.  This would necessitate the construction of a 16-mile 10
to 12-inch gas transmission line between Toot and Meyal (at an estimated cost
-/    Intercomp  Resource  Development  and  Engineering  Ltd.,  "A  Study  of
Development Alternatives for the Toot Jurassic Reservoir," November 1982.
2/  The reserves of Toot and its production characteristics are examined in
more detail in Annex 3.01.



- 14 -
of US$3 million).   GOP, OGDC and POL are currently negotiating arrangements
for construction of the gas pipeline, the fee to be levied by POL for
processing the Toot gas and marketing arrangements for the gas liquids.
During loan negotiations, these arrangements were reviewed; finalization of
plans satisfactory to the Bank for the utilization of Toot associated gas
would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
3.08     The Toot  reservoir  is  complex with low porosity and permeability
sands and different gas-oil ratios in adjacent wells. In the past, there has
not been adequate monitoring of reservoir data, and so reservoir behavior
cannot be predicted accurately.  Although the Intercomp production forecasts
are considered conservative, there is a possibility that producing Toot oil at
the projected rates might result in decreased ultimate oil recovery by
prematurely depleting the reservoir energy or differentially depleting various
reservoir layers.   In order to minimize this risk (and also to assess the
applicability of secondary and tertiary oil recovery processes) a rigorous
reservoir monitoring and evaluation program must be instituted in the field.
During appraisal, agreement was reached with OGDC on a reservoir monitoring
and re-evaluation program including logging, coring, testing, sampling,
pressure surveys and production rate measurements (Details of the program are
set out in Annex 3.03). In view of the crucial importance of strict reservoir
control in optimizing the development of the Toot field, initiation of the
agreed program would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Project Description
3.09     The major components of the proposed project are summarized below.  A
detailed description of Toot field facilities is in Annex 3.01.
-       Well Drilling and Completion.  Four development wells will be
drilled and completed at the Toot field, each approximately
4,500 m. deep.
-       Oil and Gas Separation Facilities.   One three-stage oil and
gas separation system and three single-stage test separators
will be installed in the central oil and gas treatment plant
and at two satellite locations.
-       Gas Compressors.   Approximately 3,000-hp of gas-driven com-
pressor capacity will be installed in the central oil and gas
treatment plant to collect and pressurize the separated
associated gas to pipeline inlet pressure.
-       Down-hole Safety Equipment.   Down-the-tubing safety valves
and control accessories will be installed on 14 Toot wells.
-       Infrastructure.  This item includes:  (i) the construction of
20 miles of all-weather road between Toot oil field and
Gharib Wall, including a causeway on the Nullah Rivey
crossing; (ii) the construction of approximately 32,000 ft
of office and residential buildings at the existing Toot
camp;  (c)  the  construction  of  field water  supply  system
including water pipeline, pumping station and approximately
70,000 gallons of water storage tanks.



- 15 -
Field Support Facilities.   The existing facilities  at the
field workshop will be upgraded by installing new oil field
workshop machines; and the field transport fleet will be
upgraded  by  the  addition  of  new  heavy-duty  oil  field
transport equipment.
Engineering, Technical Services and Consultancy.  Included in
this item are specialized oil field services such as contract
drilling,   drilling  management,   well   logging,   testing,
cementing and completion, tubular goods inspection, well
fluid   sampling   and   bottom-hole   pressure   measurements;
engineering and design of subsurface safety equipment and oil
and gas separation and compression system and consultancy for
the re-evaluation of the Toot reservoir.
Project Implementaion
3.10     Project  Management:    OGDC's General Manager,  Projects,  will have
responsibility  for managing  the Toot  Phase  II development  project.   His
responsibility will include the coordination of the entities  in charge of
implementation (OGDC's own operating departments, service contractors and the
field management), monitoring of implementation and the reservoir studies.
The Toot Development Project (TDP) organized under a Director will assist him
in  performing  his  duties.    The  day-to-day  management  of  drilling  and
production operations will be the responsibility of OGDC's Drilling and
Production  Departments,  respectively.    To  ensure  close  cooperation  with
service contractors and facilitate the taking of urgent decisions, especially
in drilling, a senior OGDC engineer will be continuously stationed in the
field. OGDC's operating departments have been strengthened by the addition of
CIDA-financed Canadian consultants in the fields of project management,
drilling, production and reservoir engineering and oil field materials and
equipment.   CIDA and OGDC have confirmed that they intend to continue these
arrangements throughout Phase II implementation.
3.11     These are the same arrangements which applied during Toot Phase I
implementation.    Despite  initial difficulties,  they have worked satisfac-
torily, particularly over the last eighteen months of the project.   During
appraisal, agreement was reached to continue the same arrangements for Toot
Phase II implementation. In view of OGDC's significantly improved performance
since late 1981, these arrangements are satisfactory.
3.12     Engineering  and  Construction:       Lacking  the  necessary  manpower
required for engineering and design, OGDC relies almost entirely on outside
consultants for these aspects of its operations.   The most recent reservoir
and field development study for Toot was prepared by Intercomp, and, given the
limitations of the available data, it is considered to be adequate and
conservative. However, it needs to be updated as soon as enough data becomes
available from the reservoir monitoring program.   OGDC will use the services
of qualified international consultants for both the collection of the
reservoir data and the evaluation of the results.  These studies and services
will be financed under the proposed Bank loan.   The design of oil storage
tanks and the Toot-Dhulian oil pipeline which was initiated under Phase I will
be revised and updated by qualified consultants satisfactory to OGDC and the
Bank.



- 16 -
3.13     The  construction of roads,  well  locations,  oil storage tanks and
buildings (not financed by the Bank) will be entrusted to qualified local
contractors.   OGDC will itself install field surface production facilities,
under the supervision of the suppliers' personnel when needed, using its field
operating personnel who have adequate experience in the construction of field
facilities.
3.14     The drilling of the four Toot development wells will be undertaken by
OGDC Drilling Department using OGDC's relatively new American-made diesel
electric rigs and its own drilling personnel.  However, OGDC rigs assigned to
project wells will be managed by qualified expatriate drilling contractors who
will supply the high-level qualified personnel needed for drilling operations
(drilling   superintendents,    tool   pushers,    drillers,   mechanics   and
electricians).   These are the same arrangements that applied in Toot Phase I
and are considered to be the most economic and efficient way of implementing
the drilling program.   Qualified international oil field service contractors
will be utilized for special operations such as well logging, testing,
cementing and perforating, tubular goods inspection, pressure surveys,
reservoir fluid sampling and drilling mud control.   These arrangements are
satisfactory. The location, depth and drilling program for Bank-financed Toot
wells will be submitted to the Bank for approval on a no-objection basis.
3.15     Implementation Schedule:   The Project would be implemented over a
period of approximately three and a half years starting in early 1983 and
ending in mid-1986, with the major components being completed in late-1985.
Annex 3.04 shows  the proposed  implementation schedule.   The drilling  and
construction schedule is prepared on the basis of recent OGDC performance and
is achievable.
Project Cost Estimate
3.16     The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$63.8 million (Rs.
797 million) including customs duties, physical and price contingencies,
front-end fee and re-financing of Dhodak PPF (P-160).  A contribution by OGDC
corresponding to the cost assigned to the use of OGDC rigs estimated at $4.2
million equivalent is excluded from the project cost since no cash expendi-
tures are involved.   The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$41.7
million, or 65% of the total cost.   Estimated project costs are summarized
below; a detailed cost breakdown appears in Annex 3.05.



- 17 -
Project Cost Summary
US$ million                      Rs million
F.E.     L.C.      Total         F.E.      L.C.       Total
Toot Drilling                  22.7      12.1        34.8       283.7    151.2       434.9
Production and Field
Support Facilities         5.9      1.7         7.6        73.8      21.3        95.1
Infrastructure                  0.1       2.0         2.1         1.3     25.0        26.3
Technical Assistance            0.8       0.2         1.0        10.0       2.5       12.5
Total Project Base Cost        29.5      16.0        45.5       368.8    200.0       568.8
Contingencies:  Physical        7.4       3.9        11.3        92.5     48.8       141.3
Price          4.5       2.2        6.7        56.3      27.5        83.8
Total Project Cost             41.4      22.1        63.5       517.6    276.3       793.9
Front-end Fee                   0.1         -         0.1         1.3         -         1.3
PPF Re-financing                0.2        -          0.2         2.5         -        2.5
Financing Required             41.7      22.1        63.8       521.4    276.3       797.7
3.17     The estimate of drilling and equipment costs is based on detailed
lists of materials and services prepared by OGDC on the basis of recent
experience.   However, a physical contingency of 30% was applied to the base
cost  of  well  drilling  and  completion  to  reflect  the  difficult  drilling
conditions in Toot.  A physical contingency of 10% on all other cost items is
considered to be adequate.   The project will require very little,  if any,
local engineering and consultancy other than OGDC's own input.  The expected
average cost per man-month for the various foreign engineering and consultancy
services required (56 man-months) is US$18,500 including travel, subsistence
and overhead. Price contingencies were calculated assuming annual escalation
rates of 8.0% in FY83, 7.8% in FY84, 7.0% in FY85 and 6.5% in FY86 for local
costs and 8.0% in CY82 and 83, 7.5% in CY84, 7.0% in CY85 and 6.0% in CY86 for
foreign costs. These rates reflect the estimated price increases in Pakistan
and  major  equipment  and  service  supplying  countries.    The  phasing  of
expenditures appears in Annex 3.06.
Financing Plan
3.18     The proposed Bank loan of US$30 million represents about 47% of the
total project cost and about 72% of the foreign exchange cost.  It represents
approximately 5% of OGDC's investment program for the period FY 83-86.   The
financing plan for the project is as follows:



- 18 -
U.S. $ Million
F.E.      L.C         Total
IBRD                                30.0                    30.0
Bilateral Credits                   11.7         --         11.7
OGDC/GOP                              -           22.1      22.1
Total            41.7         22.1       63.8
The cost of materials and equipment, mostly tubular goods such as casing and
piping, which are judged suitable for financing out of existing bilateral
credits amounts to $11.7 million.   The local costs of the project will be
financed by GOP out of budget transfers.
3.19     The  development  of  Toot  is  an  on-going  project  and  to  ensure
continuity of operations and to keep intact the Toot implementation team will
require continuing commitments  by OGDC during loan processing.   To permit
this, items for Bank financing include provision of up to US$10 million for
advance  contracting  and retroactive  financing  for expenditures  made  after
January 1, 1983 of up to US$3.0 million.
3.20     Although the proposed pricing provisions (see Chapter V) raise the
prospect of improved medium-term financial viability for the company, over the
Bank loan disbursement period OGDC will continue being heavily dependent on
GOP budget transfers.  This is because the major exploration and development
investments which are planned will not be matched for several years by a
corresponding increase in output and revenues.   It is, therefore, proposed
that the Bank loan be made to GOP which will on-lend the loan proceeds to OGDC
at 14% payable over 15 years including three years of grace.   The interest
rate reflects the cost of the Bank loan plus a margin for the foreign exchange
risk and loan guarantee which are borne by GOP.   Execution of satisfactory
subsidiary agreements for transfer of Bank funds to OGDC would be a condition
of loan effectiveness.   The pricing provisions, set out in paras. 5.06-5.07
below, are considered essential for OGDC's future financial viability, so that
lending for subsequent projects can be made directly to OGDC.
3.21     Items Proposed for Bank Financing:  Since OGDC is not at present able
to raise commercial sources of finance the Bank loan would be used to finance
the foreign exchange cost of the project other than the cost of materials and
equipment which can be financed out of existing bilateral official credits.
The Bank loan would finance oil field services, engineering and consultancy
costs estimated at US$13.7 million; oil field equipment and materials
estimated at US$16.0 million; and refinancing of the Dhodak PPF (US$0.2
million) and the front-end fee (US$0.1 million).
Procurement and Disbursement
3.22     The majority of equipment, materials and services proposed for Bank
financing, with the exception of spare parts and well logging services, are
suitable for international  competitive  bidding  (ICB).   There  are a large
number of companies which are capable of supplying these items and eligible to
bid under the Bank guidelines, and in the present depressed condition of the
oil field supply industry, competition is expected to be keen.



- 19 -
3.23     Procurement of items proposed for Bank financing will be through ICB
according to Bank guidelines with two exceptions: (i) about US$2.0 million of
goods and services will be procured through limited international tendering
(LIT) because of the highly-specialized nature of the items and the small
number of available suppliers.   Quotations will be solicited from at least
four suppliers from three different countries and restricted to imported items
estimated to cost less than US$250,000 equivalent, as well as items whose
delivery periods are critical to project implementation; and (ii) the Bank
will finance the services of existing service contractors until the completion
of Toot 19 up to a cost of about US$13.7 million wherever a chanq in contrac-
tor  could  impair  the  efficiency  and  safety  of  operations.-         Drilling
conditions at Toot are extremely difficult and implementation of Toot Phase I
in the early stages was complicated by unfamiliarity of the drilling and other
service  contractors  with  the  uniquely  complex  conditions.    Recently,  as
familiarity with local conditions has grown, drilling and completion success
has improved significantly.   Introduction of new contractors would risk a
recurrence of earlier complications and reduce the probability of efficient
and safe operations.    Prices  of these services are reasonable,  and lower
prices are unlikely through additional bidding.
3.24     For internationally bid items to be financed by the Bank the list of
goods and services will require prior Bank approval and bidders will be pre-
or post-qualified in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank which
would  be  specified  in  the  bidding  documents  in  the  case  of  post-
qualification.  Qualified local suppliers will be allowed to participate in
ICB with a 15% (or the import duty rate, if lower) preference margin.  It is
estimated that the number of bid packages for Bank financing will approximate
100.  Prior Bank review of the tender and contract documents of all packages
estimated  to cost more  than US$200,000 CIF will be undertaken.   Packages
costing less than this threshold value will be subject to post-review by the
Bank.  Bid initiation and evaluation will be the responsibility of OGDC with
assistance from consultants as required.
3.25     Disbursements under the proposed Bank loan would be as follows:
(a) drilling and drilling services contracts; 100% of foreign
expenditures;
(b) equipment and spare parts:
(i)   directly imported: 100% of foreign expenditures
(ii) local expenditures: 100% of ex-factory cost
(c) Bank Front End Fee, capitalized into the loan; 100%; and
(d) the amount disbursed under the PPF
1/    The  existing  service  contractors  are:  KCA  (drilling  management),
Schlumberger (well logging), Dowell-Schlumberger (cementing and testing),
Magcobar (mud engineering) and Vetco (tubular goods inspection).   They were
all selected according to Bank guidelines under Credit 867-PAK.



- 20 -
The withdrawal applications would be fully documented.   Disbursements  are
expected to be completed by December 31, 1985. The closing date would be June
30, 1986. The disbursement schedule is estimated as follows:
US$ million
FY 84     FY 85      FY 86
Annual                   22.0        7.4        0.6
Percentage                  73        25          2
Details are given in Annex 3.07.   The schedule is based on the following
assumptions:  (i) oil field service charges will be disbursed three months
after the services have been performed; and (ii) materials and equipment will
be procured six months prior to actual use in the project.  The disbursement
profile is based on experience gained under the first Toot project.Reporting
Reporting Requirements
3.26     Agreement was obtained during negotiations that the Bank will receive
quarterly progress reports from OGDC. All reports will be submitted within 45
days after the end of the relevant period.   The content and format of the
reports have been agreed during appraisal.
Ecology and Safety
3.27     The Toot oil field is located far from large population centers.The
ground  is mostly  bare  and  agriculture  is minimal.    The main sources  of
pollution due to project-related activities are well effluents (oil, water and
associated gas)  and drilling fluids while drilling.   Drilling  fluids  are
circulated in a semi-closed system and are dumped into mud pits especially
provided for this purpose after the completion of drilling operations.  This
is the normal industry practice, and no significant pollution is expected to
result therefrom. The well effluents, except during well testing operations,
are handled in closed systems to minimize loss by leakage. During well tests,
the relatively small amounts of oil and water produced are dumped into special
burn pits where the oil is disposed of by burning. The produced gas is burned
at a flare  to minimize  the  risk  of  fire  and  explosion.    All necessary
precautions will be taken during design and construction of surface production
facilities to minimize the chances of overpressurization, corrosion and third-
party damage.   Installations where well effluents are collected and treated
will be provided with safety valves, containment walls, drain basins and drain
removal pumps. Flares will be provided for burning the excess associated gas.
3.28     To minimize the chances of a blow-out during drilling, rigs will be
provided with dual blow-out preventers and remote control systems.   Regular
fire and blow-out prevention drills are carried out routinely on all OGDC
rigs.   Surface installations where produced oil and gas are handled will be
provided with adequate alarm and fire-fighting facilities.   High fences will
be built around these facilities and producing wells to minimize the chances
of accidental or intentional damage to equipment. To prevent blow-outs or oil
spills that could result from damaged wellhead equipment or flow lines, all
producing wells in Toot will be equipped with down-the-tubing safety valves
and control equipment that would automatically shut down well flow in case of



21 -
emergency.  These arrangements conform to normal petroleum industry practices
and are satisfactory.
IV. THE BENEFICIARY
Legal Framework and Functions
4.01     The Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) will be responsible
for  implementing  the  project.    OGDC  is  a  government  owned  statutory
corporation, established in 1961 through Ordinance No. 37 (later amended in
1966 and 1971).   The functions of OGDC are defined as follows:   (i) to carry
out geological and other exploratory surveys; (ii) to undertake exploratory
drilling operations; (iii) to develop known resources; (iv) to engage in
refining activities; and (v) to distribute and transport gas and refined
products.   The Ordinance granted OGDC substantial independence to carry out
its functions within the limits of the approved budget.
4.02     In reality, OGDC's activities have been confined to exploration and
development; OGDC has never been involved in refining or distribution of gas
and refined products.  On the other hand, OGDC has acted as an advisor to GOP
on oil and gas matters and has both represented the government's interest in
joint venture undertakings with international oil companies and taken a direct
interest itself in these joint ventures.   Despite the autonomy granted OGDC
under its charter, in practice the company is closely controlled by GOP and a
wide range of investment and operating decisions have to be submitted for
final government approval.
Capital Structure
4.03     OGDC is not a public company under the Companies Act and does not
have any issued stock.   OGDC receives a yearly allocation in the form of a
grant from GOP through the Annual Development Plan (ADP).   The cumulative
contribution from Government  as of June 30, 1982, amounted to 3.8 Billion
Rupees (about US$300 million equivalent), of which more than two thirds was
contributed since 1978. This reflects the priority given by Government in the
late 70's and early 80's to the development of Pakistan's petroleum potential.
Organization and Management
4.04     OGDC's management is vested in a Board of Directors which consists of
3 to 5 directors appointed by the Government. The current board of directors
consists of 5 members.  Besides a chairman it includes two representatives of
the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources, the chairman of Sui Gas
Transmission Company Limited (SGTC) and the OGDC director of administration.
However, the Board of Directors does not effectively control the operations of
OGDC which are, in practice, subject to decisions by the Ministry of Petroleum
and Natural Resources.



- 22 -
4.05     OGDC  employs  about  3,500  staff,  including  600  managerial  and
technical  staff.      Over  the  past  10  years,  OGDC  experienced  serious
difficulties in adjusting to the need for a more agressive exploration and
development program.   It suffered from the lack of a clear definition of the
role and responsibility of management and overly centralized decision making
procedures  (with 16 senior staff reporting to the Chairman).   The lack of
adequate management information and financial reporting systems made forward
planning impossible.   This was  compounded by a compensation package which
resulted in a major exodus of skilled personnel in the late 70's to the Middle
East.  As a condition of the first Toot project (867-PAK), OGDC was asked to
undertake a comprehensive management study which would address these issues.
4.06     Consultants, financed by ODA (Overseas Development Agency) (UK) were
entrusted with the task of carrying out the management study which was
completed in July, 1981. Discussions were held subsequently with the Ministry
of Petroleum and Natural Resources and the final review occurred in February
1982.  The consultants proposed that OGDC be re-structured with the creation
of a holding company and independent operating subsidiaries.  While the need
for major reforms was accepted by GOP, a number of the specific recommenda-
tions were considered to not take adequately into account the local conditions
in  Pakistan.    While  not  all  the  consultant's  recommendations  have  been
accepted by the Government, major steps have been taken in the last twelve
months to better define OGDC's role and improve its management and operations.
4.07     As described earlier, the scope of OGDC activities is to be brought
more into line with its current capabilities with primary emphasis on
development of Toot and the Pirkoh gas field and a limited exploration
program. The development of the complex Dhodak gas-condensate field where gas
recycling is required to optimise liquid recovery, is (at the suggestion of
the Bank) to be carried out by a private sector oil company under contract to
OGDC.  This will relieve OGDC management of direct day-to-day responsibility
for Dhodak implementation. Proposals from private sector companies to develop
Dhodak have been received and are being evaluated by OGDC and GOP.
4.08     Specific  steps  have  also  been  taken  to  remedy  the  management
deficiencies identified by the management study.   Greater autonomy has been
delegated to the Toot Oil Field Division and the Pirkoh Gas Company (a
separate OGDC subsidiary) who have their own project management and accounting
staff.   The project units are directly responsible for project accounting,
materials control and management information functions.   The staff compensa-
tion package has been somewhat improved through recent adjustments to fringe
benefits, particularly pension arrangements, and the implementation of a bonus
scheme. Further progress in this area depends on agreement from the Ministry
of Finance.  Staff reporting requirements have been streamlined (the proposed
new organization chart is shown in Annex 4.01) and the management information
system has improved remarkably.
Accounting and Financial Systems
4.09     OGDC is required under its Ordinance to keep full accounts of its
financial position.   Until recently, financial systems suffered from  major
deficiencies   which   precluded   OGDC   from  issuing  meaningful   financial
statements.   They  included  (i) weak procedures  and an unreliable flow of
documents,  (ii)  backlog  in  processing  of  transactions  (iii)  insufficient



- 23 -
control over stores and fixed assets (iv) a deficient accounting system and
(v) lack of a systematic management information system.
4.10     In April  1981,  a consultant was hired as financial controller to
improve the status of finances in OGDC. This consultant, financed by ODA, was
appointed for a period ending in March, 1984. Major progress has already been
achieved.    A new  accounting and   management  information system has been
designed; a full inventory of stores has been completed; flow of documents and
procedures have been streamlined; backlog in accounting for stores transaction
has been reduced from several years to about one month; external auditors have
been invited to bid to carry out a full inventory of OGDC fixed assets; yearly
accounts are now being issued, in a meaningful format, within 6 months after
the end of the fiscal year, as compared with a 3-year delay for FY78 state-
ments; and accounting principles used by OGDC, especially as regards
accounting for dry holes, abandoned wells and geological/geophysical expenses
have been revised and made to conform to industry practice.
4.11     At the same time, decentralization of the accounting function towards
operating units (Toot and Pirkoh) has been initiated.   Hiring of accounting
staff has been achieved for both projects; accounting manuals have been
issued; and procedures have been designed to allow decentralization to be
completed within the next 6 months.  Finally, a computer system is currently
being designed which will produce the management information required by
operating units, OGDC management and the Government.
4.12     While these are definite improvements, further efforts need to be
made over the next 12 months to ensure a continuation of the progress made so
far.   To this end, an action program was designed in December, 1982.  This
action program agreed upon with OQDC Management is shown in Annex 4.02.
Satisfactory initial progress in implementing the agreed financial management
action program was confirmed at loan negotiations. The loan will provide for
further assistance, after March 1984, to continue supporting OGDC's efforts to
improve its financial procedures and assistance in the development and
acquisition of software and hardware systems capable of producing the required
management information.
Auditing
4.13     OGDC's accounts are audited jointly by two auditors.  Appointment of
these auditors is made by OGDC after approval of the Auditor General of
Pakistan. The audit report is submitted to the Board of Directors and to the
Government. The current auditors of OGDC are Rahim Jan and Company and Z. A.
Shaikh  and Company,  both  chartered  accountants.    Besides  this  commercial
audit,  OGDC  is  subject  to Government  audit.    Finally,  OGDC has its  own
Internal Audit department, which has been primarily involved in the audit of
transactions.   Over the last two years,  the internal audit department has
taken a more extensive role in controlling stores and fixed assets.   These
arrangements are satisfactory.  During negotiations, OGDC agreed that audited
reports would be furnished to the Bank within 6 months after the end of each
Fiscal Year.



- 24 -
Insurance
4.14     OGDC carries comprehensive insurance on its assets against all major
risks including fires, blowouts and explosions.  OGDC's insurance is with the
National Insurance Corporation, which would make foreign exchange available in
case of loss of an imported item.  The National Insurance Corporation is in
turn re-insured outside the country. These arrangements are satisfactory.
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Background and Objectives
5.01     Until now, OGDC's activities have been financed almost exclusively by
government funding through the ADP (Annual Development Plan).   The contribu-
tion of OGDC's internal resources to its exploration and development
activities has been negligible.   In part, this has resulted from the large
exploration and development expenditures which have not yet been matched by
corresponding increases in production. In part, however, it has resulted from
the inadequate prices which it has received for its limited production (in
FY82, 574,000 barrels of oil and 3.2 BCF of gas).   In future, as production
from Pirkoh and Dhodak commence and output from Toot increases, it should be
possible for OGDC to become financially independent for each of its develop-
ment operations as well as begin self-financing a share of its exploration
program.    Its  success  in  achieving  these  financial  goals  will  depend
critically on both success  in increasing production from Toot,  Pirkoh and
Dhodak and on full implementation of the new pricing provisions described
later  in  this  chapter.    Because  OGDC  has  not  been  a financially viable
company, it has not been able to borrow funds commercially even for
individually economic investments such as Toot development.   Over the next
five years, as its overall financial position improves, OGDC should be able to
gradually broaden its access to external finance beyond the multilateral and
bilateral lending agencies to include some access to commercial borrowing. An
important objective of the present project is to lay a basis for such a
development.
Past Financial Status
5.02     OGDC current revenues derive from:   (i) the sale of gas and conden-
sate from the Sari and Hundi gas fields; (ii) the sale of oil and associated
gas from Toot field and (iii) OGDC's share in Adhi production (a joint venture
with PPL). Gas produced from Sari and Hundi is sold to Sui Gas Transmission
Company (SGTC); gas from Toot is sold to SNGPL; and oil is sold to Attock
Refinery Limited. Table 5.01 shows FY82 production from each source.



- 25 -
Table 5.01
FY82 OGDC - Oil and Gas Production
Saril/Hundi       Toot           Adhi      Total
Gas (MMCF)                   2501             694           --        3195
Oil (000 Bbls)                 --             508           66         574
Condensate (Long Tons)         40              --           --          40
5.03     The price which OGDC receives for its production is set by GOP.  Gas
from Sari and Hundi is priced at Rs 0.74/MCF (US$0.06) which is the price
which was paid to PPL for Sui gas up until 1982. Gas compression investments
are required at these fields to sustain production and OGDC is seeking a gas
price increase from GOP before undertaking these investments.  Associated gas
from Toot was also priced at RsO.74/MCF until 1982 when the price was
increased to Rs2/MCF in line with the same increase given to POL for Meyal
associated  gas.   Crude  oil from Toot  (which is  considered  'old' oil for
pricing purposes) has been priced at Rs44 per barrel (US$3.50) which is the
same as the price for Meyal oil set in 1976.   These prices not only bear no
relationship to the market value of the products but are far below the current
cost of production. This situation is partly compensated by revenue from OGDC
participation in the Adhi joint venture with PPL. Because Adhi is considered
'new' oil, OGDC receives about US$20 per barrel for Adhi crude.  OGDC income
was also improved by sale of geophysical and other services to private sector
oil companies.
5.04     The income position of OGDC for the last 5 years (1978-1982) is shown
in Annex 5.01 and is summarized in the Table 5.02 below.
Table 5.02
Summary of OGDC Income Position
(In Million Rupees)
1978           1980         1982
Operating Revenues            21.8           34.6         89.1
Operating Profit (loss)       (5.2)          11.4         23.5
Net Profit (net loss)          6.5           15.3        (4.7)
The income statement indicates clearly the small income OGDC generates from
its current operations.   Even this overstates the true position since until
recently OGDC capitalized expenditures for dry and abandoned wells, geological
and geophysical expenses and administrative costs but did not amortize these
costs.   This practice, contrary to generally accepted oil industry practice,
has been rectified in FY82 for expenditures incurred in that year, which
results in the net loss shown for the first time in that year.
5.05     The detailed balance sheet is shown in Annex 5.02 and summarized
below:



- 26 -
Table 5.03
Summary of OGDC Balance Sheet
1978-1982
(In Million Rupees)
1978          1980         1982 1/
Assets
Fixed Assets 2                         858.2        1541.5         1340.0
Other Assets -                          97.2          97.2            --
Current Assets                        1087.6        1358.6         2171.3
Less Current Liabilities               (61.1)       (156.6)        (170.7)
Working Capital                       1026.5        1202.0         2000.6
Total Assets                             1981.9        2840.2         3340.6
Liabilities
Equity                                1623.7        2567.6         3762.7
Deficit                                                            (936.6)
Total Equity                          1623.7        2567.6         2826.1
Long-term Debt                         358.2         273.1          514.5
Total Liabilities                        1981.9        2840.7         3340.6
Debt Equity R 4io                        18/82         10/90          15/85
Current Ratio-                              3.8           1.9            3.0
1/ Unaudited
2/ Assets in Bangladesh
3/ Excluding stocks and investments
As of June 30, 1982, the current assets include about 1.4 Billion Rupees
(US$112 million) for "materials in stores".  As part of the action plan for
improvement of OGDC's finances, a full physical inventory of warehouses was
undertaken in FY82, and adjustments for differences between book value and
actual counts will be recorded in FY83.  These differences are expected to be
substantial, possibly up to $80 million. Stores figures also include obsolete
materials, which OGDC intends to write off in the coming year.   The agreed
action plan to improve OGDC's practices in control and accounting (Annex 4.02)
addresses in detail these points; the planned changes should result in a
substantial decrease in the recorded value of OGDC's current assets in the
next fiscal year.
Pricing Policy and Retention of Earnings
5.06     In the case of Toot, unlike private producers, the price paid for the
production does not determine whether or not investments are made since OGDC
evaluates investments using international prices. Oil and gas prices paid to
OGDC do, however, directly impact on the financial viability of the company.
In the past, Toot prices were set equal to Meyal prices, i.e. on a cost-plus



- 27 -
basis and were insufficient to finance Toot operations.   In late 1983, GOP
agreed to abandon cost-plus pricing for Meyal and to price production at world
market price less a domestic market discount (para. 2.21.). GOP has now also
agreed that Toot oil and gas prices will be set at a level no less favorable
than prices paid to private oil companies operating in adjacent areas, i.e.
parity with Meyal (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
5.07     Under this covenant the price of Toot crude will be set equal to the
international price of crude oil less a domestic market discount of 45%. This
would give a current oil price of US$16 per barrel which will adjust automa-
tically in line with changes in international oil prices.  This compares with
a current Toot oil price of US$3.50 per barrel. In addition the price of Toot
associated gas would be increased from Rs2/MCF up to Rs5/MCF.   This sharp
increase in the level of Toot oil and gas prices reflects government willing-
ness to reduce OGDC reliance on budget transfers.
5.08     Under the recently approved petroleum exploration project, GOP has
also agreed that oil and gas from new discoveries by OGDC will receive prices
no less favorable than those paid to private oil companies operating under
joint venture agreements in adjacent areas.  The combination of these provi-
sions with the sharply higher Toot prices hold promise of much improved
financial prospects for OGDC in the medium term.
5.09     If OGDC's financial position is to improve it must be allowed to
retain  the  increased  revenues  to  finance  its  investment  program.    GOP
therefore agreed at negotiations that no remittances shall be made to the
Government until OGDC is able to meet the operating costs and debt service
related to its development operations and contribute a reasonable portion of
its exploration and development requirements from internal cash generation.
Future Investments and Financing Plan
5.10     The OGDC five year investment plan and projected sources of funding
are shown in Annex 5.03 and summarized in Table 5.04.  The projection incor-
porates the new pricing arrangements for Toot (US$16 per barrel for oil and
Rs5/MCF for gas).   It also incorporates the pricing arrangements for Pirkoh
non-associated gas  reached with ADB (Rs6/MCF for raw gas).   The five year
proposed investment plan totals Rs16.9 billion of which half is exploration
and half development.   Under these conditions gross internal cash generation
would account for 27% of overall fund requirements and net of debt service
would account for 15% of investment requirements as compared to an almost zero
contribution over the past five years.  Debt service coverage is projected to
improve from 0.3 in 1983 (under the old pricing arrangements) to 1.2 in 1914
and 2.3 in 1985.   A recent review of OGDC's investment plan by the Bank-
suggests that, in fact, actual outlays by OGDC will be substantially less than
the plan target, particularly in exploration, because of implementation con-
straints.   Using  the Bank's  revised  investment  figures  net  internal  cash
generation  over  the  five  years  would  finance  26%  of  OGDC's  investment
requirements.
l/ Pakistan: Review of the Sixth Five Year Plan, Report No. 4706-PAK.



- 28 -
Table 5.04
OGDC Investment Plan and Projected Financing Sources
1983-1988
Billion Rupees         Millions of US$       %
Requirements
Exploration                                8.5                 680               50
Development Projects                       8.4                 672               50
Total Requirements                        16.9                1352              100
Sources
Net Internal Cash Generation               2.6                 208               15
Budgetary Sources                         11.5                 920              68
External Financing                         2.8                 224               17
Total Sources                             16.9               1352              100
Average Debt Service Coverage             2.0
5.11     The proposed Bank loan to GOP would be onlent to OGDC at a rate of
14%.  The foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk would be borne by the
borrower. Repayment by OGDC to GOP would be over 15 years with a 3 year grace
period starting in 1987 after the project is completed. The covenant agreed in
loan 867-PAK will be continued through which: (i) OGDC would consult with the
Bank before undertaking any new development; and (ii) OGDC would submit to the
Bank each year projections of its future financial position in a format
acceptable to the Bank.
Toot Field Financial Analysis
5.12     Production from Toot has been limited since 1978 due to technical
difficulties and delays in project implementation.  At the same time, prices
received by OGDC for oil and gas were insufficient to make Toot field a self-
sufficient operation.   Detailed financial statements for 1980-1983 are shown
in Annex 5.04 (income statement), 5.05 (balance sheet) and 5.06 (source and
application of funds). Main indicators are shown below in Table 5.05.



- 29 -
Table 5.05
Toot Field Financial Indicators
1980-1983
1980       1981       1982       1983
Sales of Gas
(MMcf)                                     --      --         694      2738
Sales of Oil
(000 Bbls)                                262     639        508         913
Net Sales
(in million US dollars)                    .9     2.3         1.9        3.6
Net Income (Losses)
(in million US dollars)                (1.4)   (2.0)       (4.8)      (7.7)
Debt Service Coverage                      (0.9)      0.3         --        0.3
Operating Ratio (%)                          177      102        145        143
5.13     The indicators in Table 5.05 emphasize the previous negative contri-
bution  of  Toot  towards  OGDC's  overall  financial  viability.    Given  the
inadequate prices, the field was unable to generate sufficient revenue to
cover project costs.   The operating ratio remained above 100% throughout the
period.   In contrast the indicators in Table 5.06 indicate that the pricing
policy described in para. 5.07 will allow Toot to become a financially viable
operation and contribute funds to OGDC's investment program.   Annexes 5.07,
5.08 and 5.09 show the projected Income Investment, Balance Sheet and Source
and Application of funds for the Toot operations with related assumptions in
Annex 5.10.   Debt service coverage will remain satisfactory throughout the
project life and the operating ratio will remain low at around 40%.
Table 5.06
Toot Field Financial Indicators
1984-1990
1984       1986       1988       1990
Sale of Gas
(Mmcf)                               3358       5657       6971       4307
Sale of Oil
(000 Bbls)                           1074       1064        750        445
Sale of Condensates
(000 Bbls)                            168        283        349        215
Net Sales
(in million US dollars)               21.2       28.8       29.8       21.7
Net Income
(in million US dollars)                3.6        7.3        9.9        6.1
Debt Service Coverage                      1.2        1.6        1.6        1.6
Operating Ratio %                          40         39         39         42



- 30 -
5.14     The financial internal rate of return on Toot project investment is
about 4% in constant prices.   However, the expenditures included in the cost
base for this computation reflect a period of severe operating difficulties
and hence do not reflect appropriately the cost of efficient operations. The
Government believes that the appropriate basis for pricing of Toot production
is parity with private operators in the adjacent field since costs in the
latter case more accurately reflect the cost of efficient operations. In view
of the satisfactory forecast for Toot finances under the proposed pricing
provisions, they are considered satisfactory.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
6.01     Economic Benefits.   The economic benefit  from the Toot Phase  II
project is the value of incremental oil, gas and LPG/NGL production resulting
from the addition of the four Toot wells. Incremental production according to
the Intercomp reserves study is shown below for selected years:
1984       1986        1988        1990
OIL
(000 Bbl)                 305         566          80          11
GAS
(MMcf)                  (219)       19455        7592        4124
LPG
(000 Bbl)                 (11)        973         379         207
The project increases gas and LPG production after 1985 and accelerates the
recovery of oil in place.  From 1992 annual oil production with the project
will in fact be lower than without the project.  Over the field life, with the
project, future production will be 8.3 million barrels of oil, 110 BCF of gas
and 5.5 million barrels of LPG compared to 6.9 million barrels of oil, 39 BCF
of gas and 2 million barrels of LPG without the project.
6.02     The ex-field value of crude oil and LPG is the c.i.f cost of the
imported alternative adjusted for differential transport costs to the Attock
refinery.  The value of crude (in 1983 prices) at Attock has been taken at $34
per barrel until 1985 and escalated at 2.5% thereafter.   The LPG value has
been taken equivalent to that of crude oil. Natural gas is valued at fuel oil
parity since gas forecasts indicate that fuel oil will substitute for gas in
power generation for the forseeable future.   Fuel oil is valued at $195 per
ton in the base year falling to $180 in 1985 and rising to $210 by 1990.
6.03     Project costs cover:  (i) the drilling of four wells at Toot;  (ii)
added surface production facilities and infrastructure; and (iii) reservoir
monitoring and evaluation program.  Total cost is estimated at $67 million in
1983 terms, inclusive of physical contingencies and the imputed cost of OGDC
rigs  and  exclusive  of  duties.    Operating  costs  are  estimated  to  remain
unchanged with the addition of the project facilities.   The analysis uses a
rate of exchange of Rs 12.5 per US dollar and discount rate of 12% for net
present value calculations.



- 31 -
6.04     The detailed economic analysis is shown in Annex 6.01.  The economic
rate of return for the project is about 31%.   The payback period is four
years, and the cumulative net benefits are $35 million.  Sensitivity analysis
has been performed for main economic parameters. It indicates that should the
marginal production be only 80% of expected, the net cumulative economic
benefits would still be US$17 million. Should the project cost be 20% higher,
the net discounted benefits would still be $24 million.   In the worst case,
where the average price for production is lower by 20%, marginal production
reaches only 80% of expected and cost overruns of 20% are experienced, the net
economic benefit would be $6 million.   In all cases,  the ERR would remain
satisfactory.
6.05     The economic analysis for the overall Toot field development is shown
in Annex 6.02.  It is based on an estimated cost for the overall development
of the field of US$137.6 million.   The costs taken into account are those
pertaining to wells which led to production in the period analyzed;
specifically, cost of wells 1, 4, 6, 7, 10A, 11, 12, 14 and 15, in addition to
the project facilities which have been included.  Operating cost of $2 million
each year has been assumed. The analysis indicates that the Toot development,
as a whole, has a 71% rate of return and a cumulative US$181 million net
discounted economic benefit.   The cost per barrel of oil equivalent produced
is $11.37 in 1983 terms. The overall indicators demonstrate the overall worth
of the development of the field to Pakistan.
6.06     The project will also result in a continued transfer of technology
through the use of specialized service contractors, and in further training of
Pakistani nationals.   It will also pursue the institution building initiated
under Phase I.  Finally, the project will provide employment to an added 140
staff,  including  about  70  unskilled  personnel.    These  benefits  are  not
quantified in the economic analysis of the project.
6.07     Project  Risks.    The  Intercomp  study on which  the Toot Phase II
development program is based is conservative in its prediction of future oil
and gas production rates in that it only considers the reserves proven in the
drilled area of the field and assumes an extreme case of depletion-drive.  It
is, however, speculative in some aspects, since it is based on a relatively
small amount of reservoir pressure and petrophysical data.   Therefore,  the
risk  of  the  Toot  reservoirs  not  living  up  to  expectation  cannot  be
disregarded. In this respect, especially worrisome are the risks of different
reservoir   layers   undergoing   different   rates   of   depletion,   thereby
necessitating costly and difficult work-over or re-completion jobs to produce
the oil remaining in the less permeable reservoir layers and consequently
driving up costs. Although more pronounced in this project than in many other
development projects this risk is normal.  The risk is considered acceptable
since the economic rate of return is satisfactory despite the conservative
production forecasts utilized.
6.08     The risk of failure to complete some of the development wells as
producers due to drilling and completion difficulties is relatively high.  In
the first Toot project OGDC's success ratio has been 5 producing wells out of
8 attempted.   OGDC's record has been much better in the last three years;
starting with well No. 10-A (where appropriate equipment and technology were
used for the first time) only one well out of six was lost, and even this is
generally attributed to improperly engineered casing. The probability of



- 32 -
losing one well out of the four planned (a 25X failure rate) should not be
discarded. This, in turn, would result in incremental oil and gas production
rates being about 25% lower than expected.   This is an acceptable risk and
still results in an acceptable economic rate of return.
VEI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     During negotiations assurances were be obtained from GOP that:
(a) oil and gas prices for Toot production shall be set at a level
no less favorable than prices paid to private petroleum
companies operating in adjacent areas (para. 5.06);
(b) OGDC shall retain all its earnings until it is able to meet the
operating expenses and debt service related to its development
operations  and  contribute  a  reasonable  proportion  of  its
development and exploration expenditures from internal cash
generation (para. 5.09).
7.02     During negotiations assurances were obtained from OGDC that:
(a)  the location, depth and drilling program for Bank-financed wells
will  be  submitted  to  the Bank for prior  approval  on a no-
objection basis (para. 3.14);
(b)  the  agreed  financial  management  action  program  would  be
implemented in accordance with the agreed schedule (para. 4.12);
(c) OGDC will consult with the Bank before undertaking any new
development and will submit each year a projection of its future
financial position. (para. 5.11).
7.03     Proposed conditions of effectiveness are:
(a)  finalization  of  plans  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  for  the
utilization of Toot gas; (para. 3.07)
(b)  initiation of an agreed program for reservoir monitoring of the
Toot field; (para. 3.08)
(c) execution of satisfactory subsidiary agreements for transfer of
Bank funds to OGDC. (para. 3.20).
7.04     Subject to the above,  the proposed project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$30.0 million equivalent  to finance a second Toot  oil and gas
development project.



ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY SECTOR (FY 73-82)
(Unit:  TOE 1/)
FY73        FY74        FY75        FY76        FY77        FY78          FY79         FY80         FY81         FY82
Residential         673,962    779,874    933,946    960,385  1,116,629  1,325,985   11,524,563  1,582,635    1,582,982    1,767,655
%                 (9.0)       (9.8)      (10.5)      (11.1)       (12.1)      (13.3)        (14.2)      (13.1)        (12.2)       (12.9)
Commercial           154,444    180,685    205,622    238,164    267,072    306,587            311,798    373,288        414,987      439,419
%                 (2.0)       (2.2)       (2.3)        (2.7)       (2.9)       (3.0)         (2.9)       (3.1)         (3.2)        (3.2)
Industrial        2,679,178  2,816,583  2,984,160  2,897,754  2,968,395  3,248,964           3,376,700  3,760,287   4,091,755   4,262,450
%                (35.7)      (35.3)      (33.7)      (33.4)       (32.3)      (32.5)        (31.5)      (31.1)        (31n5)       (31.0)
Agriculture         611,001    512,949    642,849    588,795    583,412    690,786             670,820    751,961        692,959      696,121
%                 (8.1)       (6.4)       (7.3)        (6.8)       (6.4)       (6.9)         (6.3)       (6.2)         (5.3)        (5.1)
Transport         1,229,440  1,307,649  1,471,281  1,595,435  1,679,168  1,980,626    2,311,646  2,519,165   2,716,766   2,819,054                      X
%                (16.4)      (16.4)      (16.6)      (18.3)       (18.3)      (19.8)        (21.5)      (20.9)        (20.9)       (20.5)
Power             1,114.954  1,361,857  1,537,233  1,332,160  1,594,653  1,443,093           1,434,283  1,922,090   2,152,586   2,321,081               1
%                 (14.8)      (17.1)       (17.3)      (15.5)      (17.4)      (14.4)        (13.4)      (15.9)        (16.6)       (16.9)
Fertilizer!'        232,735    254,123    264,316    267,583    268,878    269,186             340,684    393,799        530,281      610,101
%                 (3.1)       (3.2)       (3.0)        (3.1)       (2.9)       (2.7)         (3.2)       (3.3)         (4.1)        (4.4)
Other Govt.          809,844    764,992    815,071    784,732    710,183    728,588            752,532    768,070        798,258      826,078
%                (10.8)       (9.6)        (9.2)       (9.0)       (7.7)       (7.3)         (7.0)       (6.4)         (6.2)        (6.0)
Total             7,505,558  7,978,712  8,854,478  8,665,008  9,188,389  9,993,815   10,723,026 12,071,295   12,979,674  13,741,959
(100)       (100)       (100)       (100)       (100)       (100)         (100)       (100)         (100)        (100)
Tons of oil equivalent,based on indigenous crude of 19,000 Btu/lb.
2/   Excluding feedstock, which accounts for 60 percent of total gas supply to fertilizer industry.
Source:  Directorate General of Energy Resources, GOP.



ENERGY SUPPLY BY SOURCE (FY 73-82)
(Unit: TOE)
FY73        FY74        FY75        FY76        FY77        FY78        FY79        FY80        FY81         FY82
Oil (excluding ex-
port and bunkering)   2,929,053  3,115,267  3,626,953  3,339,543  3,544,335  3,811,968  4,282,468  4,662,432  4,868,420  5,005,676
%                         (40.0)      (39.5)      (41.2)      (38.9)      (39.0)      (37.7)       (38.8)      (37.4)      (36.6)      (35.7)
Gas (excluding
feedstock)              2,742,250  3,130,790  3,398,174  3,303,947  3,636,797  3,875,182  4,106,149  4,991,615  5,546,492  5,903,950
%                         (37.4)      (39.7)      (38.6)      (38.5)      (40.0)      (38.3)       (37.2)      (40.0)      (41.7)      (42.1)
Coal                         553,528    555,565    590,255    484,080    552,102    570,183    620,454    701,930    705,513    754,900
%                          (7.5)       (7.0)       (6.7)       (5.7)        (6.1)       (5.6)       (5.6)       (5.6)       (5.3)       (5.4)
Hydel (excluding auxi-
liary consumption)      1,032,855    986,624  1,038,558  1,294,922  1,235,362  1,773,118  1,961,346  2,076,192  2,109,219  2,268,320
%                         (14.1)      (12.5)      (11.8)      (15.1)      (13.6)       (17.5)      (17.8)      (16.6)      (15.9)      (16.2)
Nuclear (excluding Auxi-
liary consumption)         65,307      98,617    130,000    131,067        90,471      49,625       22,765         430      32,776      43,561
(0.9)       (1.2)       (1.5)       (1.5)       (1.0)       (0.5)       (0.2)    (0.003)        (0.2)        (0.3)
L.P.G.                         5,770       6,087       14,596      22,765      24,530      31,958      37,054      40,280      42,085       50,227
%                          (0.1)       (0.1)       (0.2)       (0.3)       (0.3)        (0.3)       (0.4)       (0.3)       (0.3)       (0.3)
Total                      7,328,763  7,892,950  8.798,540  8,576,324  9.083,597 10,112,034 11,030,236 12,472,879 13,304.505 14,026,634
%                          (100)       (100)       (100)       (100)       (100)        (100)       (100)       (100)       (100)       (100)
Source:  Directorate General of Energy Resources, GOP.



ANNEX 2.01
- 35 -
PAKISTAN
SECOND OIL AND GAS PROJECT
Remaining Proven Crude Oil Reserves in Discovered Fields
(In millions of barrels)
Approx.
Fields in Order             Producing  Abandoned   Undeveloped   Total    Remaining
of Discovery                                                       Wells    Reserves
1.  Khaur           1915                   X                        396        -
2.  Dhulian         1935        X                                    46        2
3.  Balkassar       1946        X                                    10        3
4.  Joya Mair       1946                   X                          ?        -
5.  Sui             1952        X                                    34        -
6.  Zin             1954                               X              I        -
7.  Uch             1955                               X              1        -
8.  Karsal          1956                   X                          4        -
9.  Khairpur        1956                               x              2        -
10.  Mari            1957        X                                    23        -
11.  Mazarani        1958                               X              1        -
12.  Kandhkot        1959                               X              1        -
13.  Kandhot, W.    1960                                X              1        -
14.  Sari            1965        X                                     4        -
15.  Meyal           1968        X                                    11       28
16.  Toot-a          1968        X                                    15       14
17.  Hundi           1970        X                                     4        -
18.  Kothar          1973                               X              1        -
19.  Rhodo           1974                               X              2        -
20.  Dhodak          1976                               X              4       34
21.  Pirkoh          1977                               X              4        -
22.  Adhi            1978        X                                     8        3
23.  Khaskelilb      1981        X                                     7       10
Total     23                    10          3          10            580+      94
/a Based on 1983 Intercomp report.
lb Bank estimate.
Source: GOP information as of end-1982.



FIELD-WISE PRODUCMION OF CRUDE OIL IN PAKISTAN
Unit   US Barrels
Year                     Khaur        Dhulian      Joya Mir        Balkassar      Toot         Meyal           Adhi         Total      Annual
Growti
Rate %
1971-72                      2,415    1,257,528        163,834       502,969       178,912       902,157          -         3,007,815
1972-73                      2,908     1,124,950         167,456     540,027        302,292       294,263          -        3,061,896           1.79
1973-74                      2,435       803,279       164,066       722,306       257,436       905,696          -         2,855,218         -6.7         1
1974-75                      2,144       618,827       172,934       561,205       187,389       900,846          -         2,443,345       -14.4
1975-76                      2,657       381,788       171.805       469,102       200,902     1,285,493          -         2,511,747           2.8
1976-77                      1,927       264,435       195,935       419,714       446,306    2,414,703           -        3,743,020         49. 0
1977-78                      1,815       172,158       143,474       324,186       508,178    2,389,559           -        3,539,370        -5.44
1978-79                      2,336       141,891        89.252       321,504       638,357    2,517,594           -        3,710,934            4.8
1979-80                      6,792       123,380       180,500       279,841       514,645    2,403,731         57,453    3,566,342          -3.9
198(-81                      3,948       104,104       180,280       233,543       639,214    2,270,898        122,159    3,554,146         -0.34
Annual Compound
Growth Rate,
Soutrce:  Directorate  General  of Energy Resources,  GOP.



PROVED GAS RESERVES
(Unlt: TCF)
Gross
Gross                      Gross                   Remaining
Recovery    Gross      Cumulative   Remaining    Estimated    Remaining                   Reserves
Gas in    Factor    Ultimate   Production   Reserves         Production   Reserves             3   Equated to
Fields        Place     (%)       Recovery      1-1-81       1-1-81         1981         1-1-82     Btu/ft.          SMl
Dhodak        0.89      75           0.67          0         0.67              0           0.67    1,150              0.83
Khandhkot      0.17     75           0.13          0          0.13             0           0.13      842              0.12
Marl           6.00     75           4.50         0.16        4.34            0.04         4.30       723             3.33
Mazarani       0.04     70           0.02          0          0.02             0           0.02       976             0.03
Meyal          --        -           0.17          -          0.17            0.01         0.16    1,156              0.20
Pirkoh         0.45     75           0.34          0          0.34             0           0.34      840              0.30        -
Sari           0.05     60           0.03         0.01        0.02             -           0.02       870             0.02
llundi         0.08     62           0.05         0.01        0.04             -           0.04      830              0.03
Sui Upper
Limestone      1.10     65           0.71         0.01        0.70             -           0.70       984             0.74
Sui Ifain
Limestone    12.25      80           9.80         2.24        7.56            0.25         7.31       933             7.31
0
TOTFAL:       21.03      -          16.42         2.43       13.99            0.30        13.69         -            12.91          w
Source: I)eColyer and MacNaughton (GDC Gas Study, 1982)



PRODUCTION OF GAS BY AGENCY
(Unit: MMCFT (TOE))
FY                PPL             ESSO            OGDC           AOC             POL             UT                TOTAL
FY-73             121,902          10,738           --             8,273           2,181         --              143,094
(2,718,415)    (  184,694)                     (  216,753)    (   57,142)                     (3,177,004)
FY-74             143,287          10,962           --              7,085          1,827         --              163,161
(3,195,300)    (  188,546)                     (  185,627)    (   47,867)                     (3,617,340)
FY-75             154,869          11,280           --              7,009          2,797         --              175,955
(3,453,578)    (  194,016)                     (  183,636)    (   73,281)                     (3,904,511)
FY-76             150,135          11,560           3,348          6,205           4,966         --              176,214
(3,348,010)    (  198,832)    (   67,964)    (  162,571)    (  130,109)                       (3,907,486)
FY-77             158,478          11,875           4,437           5,278         10,801         --              190,869
(3,534,059)    (  204,250)    (   90,071)    (  138,284)    (  282,986)                       (4,249,650)    m
FY-78             168,814          11,875           3,334          4,146          11,769         --              199,920
(3,764,552)    (  204,250)    (   67,680)    (  108,625)    (  308,348)                       (4,453,455)
FY-79             184,392          12,756           3,933          --             20,260         --              221,341
(4,111,942)    (  219,403)    (   79,840)                     (  530,812)                     (4,941,997)
FY-80             224,652          16,146           3,392          __             15,526         --              259,716
(5,009,739)    (  277,711)    (   68,857)                     (  406,781)                     (5,763,088)
FY-81             247,654          34,971           3,179          --             14,001         --              299,805
(5,521,961)    (  601,501)    (   64,534)                     (  366,826)                     (6,554,822)
FY-82             240,064          45,633           3,133   ,      --             14,562              79         323,471
(5,798,668)    (  784,887)    (   63,600)                     (  381,524)    (    2,070)    (7,030,749)    M
SOURCE: Directorate General of Energy Resources
SOURCE: Directorate General of Energy Resources



- 39 -
ANNEX 2.05
PAKISTAN
SECOND OIL AND GAS PROJECT
Petroleum Product Prices
January 9, 1983    November 1, 1982    Increase
(Rs per Litre)
Motor gasoline                       6.00                5.45               10.1%
H.B.O.C. (Premium)                   7.30                6.76                7.9%
Kerosene oil                         2.75                2.75                 -
Lubricating base oil                 6.95                6.60                5.3%
High speed diesel oil                4.00                3.45               15.9%
JP-1 (PIA domestic)                  4.71                4.36                8.0%
JP-1 (other than domestic)           4.94                4.59                7.6%
Jp-4                                 3.75                3.40               10.3%
Light diesel oil (LDO)               2.75                2.75                 _
(Rs per metric ton)
Furnace oil                     1,720.00             1,350.00               27.4%
Asphalt                         2,800.00             2,500.00               12.0%



- 40 -                 ANNEX 3.01
Page 1 of 4
PAKISTAN
SECOND OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phase II Toot Development Program
I.       Geology and Reserves
1.       The Toot oil field is located in the Potwar basin which also contains
several other proven oil fields (Meyal, Dhulian, Khaur, Joya Mair and
Balkassar). The major hydrocarbon accumulation in Toot is found in the Datta
formation of Jurassic age encountered at about 4,500 m. The hydrocarbons were
entrapped in a faulted dome-shaped anticlinal structure. At the Jurassic
level the structure is approximately 15 km in the north-south direction by 30
km in the east-west2direction. The proven productive area of the field is
approximately 20 km . The structural contour map of the field is given in
IBRD Map 17072.
2.       The produced oil is light and volatile, and is reservoired in
relatively tight sandstones with varying degrees of shaliness. In wells
drilled so far some thirteen subunits (labeled A-M) have been recognized.
Some of these exhibit lateral discontinuities, mostly lensing. On the basis
of well log correlation, they have been grouped into four main reservoir
layers labeled I-IV from top to bottom. Although Layer II exhibits the best
petrophysical properties, the greater portion of hydrocarbons are contained in
Layer I. Average reservoir parameters appear in Appendix 1.
3.       The reserves of oil and solution gas in place in the Toot Jurassic
reservoir have recently been estimated by Intercomp Resource Development and
Engineering, Ltd. (Consultants, Canada) at 141.0 million barrels and 296
billion cubic feet (bcf), respectively. This compares well with the 138.6
million barrels of proven plus probable oil initially in place (OIIP)
estimated by Godsey-Earlougher in 1979. The productive limits of the field
are not yet determined. On the basis of geological data, an additional 39.0
million barrels of oil in place are considered as probable reserves.
4.       In the absence of an established oil-water contact and on the basis
of limited reservoir pressure data, it is assumed that the field will be
producing by simple volumetric depletion. Depending on the field development
and exploitation scheme applied, ultimate oil recoveries are estimated to
range between 9.9 and 24.1% of OIIP, or from 14.0 to 34.0 million barrels. As
of end-1982, cumulative oil and gas production stand at 5.3 million barrels
and 11.9 bcf, respectively, leaving 8.7-28.7 million barrels of oil yet to be
recovered. Corresponding values for remaining recoverable associated gas are
51.7 and 109.5 bcf.
II.      Development Optimization
5.       To predict the future performance of the Toot reservoir, the
Consultants have studied four exploitation alternatives:



- 41                    ANNEX 3.01
Page 2 of 4
Case I:    No second-phase development; 2,500-psi field abandonement
pressure;
Case II:   No development wells beyond Toot-15; 2,100-psi field
abandonment pressure;
Case III:  Up to 8 development wells in the second phase development;
2,100-psi abandonment pressure;
Case IV:   Pressure maintenance by water injection.
The present values of expected profits were also calculated up to the year
2012 for various development and exploitation alternatives. The results of
the optimization study are summarized in the table below:
Present Value of Profits (% Case I Profits)
Discounted At
Case                   10%                  15%                 20%
I                     100                 100                  100
II                    164                  163                  162
III                    202                 192                  181
IV                    199                  179                 158
6.       The above table shows that at this stage Case III is the most
economical development alternative. To study the effect of the number of
wells to be drilled on the ultimate oil recovery, computer simulation runs
were performed using 3, 5 and 8 wells in the second-phase development. These
showed that no significant recovery increase could be expected by drilling
more than five new development wells. Consequently, a Phase II development
program consisting of four additional wells was adopted.1/ Expected
production rates with and without the project are given in Annex 3.02.
III.     Description of Project Facilities
7.       Important project facilities are (i) wells, (ii) gas and oil
gathering system, and (iii) gas/oil separation and treating system. The
surface facilities including (ii) and (iii), above, were initially designed by
Petrotech Lavalin, Inc. (Consultant, Canada) in May 1981. Although Intercomp
revised this design in December 1982 to reflect the results of their reservoir
study, they assumed that the field would be operated under a pressure
maintenance scheme by water injection (low gas/oil ratios and high water
cuts). Since the project does not provide for water injection into the
reservoir, the surface facilities will be re-designed to accomodate the higher
gas/oil ratios and lower water cuts expected under the project. This is not
expected to result in changing the basic configuration of the facilities.
1/ Intercomp optimization study was done before the re-completion of
Toot 5. This well is, therefore, counted as the fifth well recommended by
the Consultants.



- 42 -                ANNEX 3.01
Page 3 of 4
Wells
8.       The basic design of the Toot wells developed on the basis of past
experience calls for the use of four strings of casing and one liner over the
production zone. A 20-in, conductor pipe is set at approximately 200 m inside
26-in hole and cemented to the surface. A 17-1/2" diameter hole is drilled to
the botton of the Nagri formation at approximately 1,750 m and 13-3/8" first
intermediate casing is set and again cemented to the surface. The second
intermediate casing of 9-5/8" is set at around 3,350 m to cover the high
pressure, water bearing Kamlial formation. The hole size to this depth is
12-1/4". An 8-1/2" hole is then drilled to the top of the Jurassic Datta
formation at around 4,500 m and 7" full-string casing is set to this depth.
Both the 9-5/8" and 7" casing strings are cemented with high-grade deep oil
well cement. The pay zone is drilled in with 5-7/8" bits and an uncemented
4-1/2" or 5" flush joint liner is set to total depth, using a packer-type
liner hanger.
9.       A 7-in. permanent production packer with a 2-3/8" tail pipe is set
inside the 7-in. production casing. The production tubing is 2-7/8". The
well is capped by a 6,000-psi Christmas Tree of conventional design. Although
not used in previous wells, the project provides for installing subsurface
safety valves in all producing wells in Toot as a safety measure against line
breaks or wellhead damage. In addition, wells will be enclosed inside high
wire fences to minimize the risk of unauthorized entry.
Oil and Gas Gathering System
10.      The flow rates of individual wells will be regulated by adjustable
chokes on the wellhead assemblies. The produced fluids will be piped to two
remote field satellites capable of accommodating 6-7 wells each through 4-6"
flow lines. Flow rates of individual wells will be regularly measured using
two-phase test separators located at each satellite. Fluids collected at
remote field satellites will be transmitted to the central gas/oil separation
and treatment facility.
Gas-oil Separation and Treating System
11.      To maximize the recovery of hydrocarbon liquids, gas/oil separation
will take place in three stages at 300,100 and 50 psig. After separation the
produced oil will be directed to the crude storage tank to be measured and
pumped into the Toot-Dhulian pipe line. Currently, the water content of the
produced oil is very low and elaborate crude oil dehydration equipment is not
needed. However, to provide for any eventuality, the manifolding of the
central gas/oil separation and treatment facility will include connections for
a free-water knockout and crude desalter. Chemical injection pumps will be
provided for the injection of emulsion breaking chemicals into the crude oil
stream to facilitate the separation of produced water from the oil.
12.      The associated gas separated at various stages will be compressed to
pipe line delivery pressure using gas engine driven compressors. The
associated gas produced in Toot contains about 5.2% by volume of carbon
dioxide (CO2). This sour gas content does not cause significant problems for
the gas users. However, in the presence of water vapor, it may cause
corrosion in the gas pipe line. To prevent this, the gas has to be dehydrated



- 43 -
ANNEX 3.01
Page 4 of 4
or corrosion inhibiting chemicals have to be injected into the pipe line. At
present, OGDC has a glycol dehydration unit in Toot with a capacity of 20
MMCFD, and it is negotiating with CIDA for the supply of another unit of the
same capacity. This, supplemented with chemical injection, should be
sufficient if the gas is sent to Meyal gas plant as envisaged. Nevertheless,
the whole system for the compression and treatment of the produced gas will
have to be optimized taking into account the characteristics of the Meyal gas
plant. Funds are provided in the project for this purpose.
13.      The central gas/oil separation and treatment plant will also include
utilities, such as boilers for process heat, air coolers and/or propane
refrigerant chillers for interstage cooling of various compressors,
electricity and water supply facilities and compressors and piping for
instrument air. Main safety and pollution control facilities will include
flare, depressuring and relief systems, catch basins with drains, fire walls
and portable wheeled fire extinguishers, gas and fire detection equipment and
emergency shutdown system.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3.01
Appendix I
TOOT OIL FIELD
Reservoir Parameters
Gross Thickness, m                                            106.9 -- 158.9
Net Sand Thickness, m                                         40.4 --  70.8
Net Pay Thickness, m                                          23.5 --  56.4
Porosity, %                                                    6.8 --  11.5
Horizontal Permeability, md                                    5.0 -- 120.0
Connate Water Saturation, %                                   25.0 --  35.0
Oil Gravity (average), API                                        40.0
Gas Specific Gravity (Air = 1.0)                                    0.725
Gas/Oil Ratio, SCF/STB                                          2,100
Initial Reservoir Pressure at -- 4,122 m, psia                  6,700
Bubble-point Pressure, psia                                     4,315
Reservoir Temperature at -- 4,122 m, F                           256
Water Salinity, ppm                                          34,800 -- 75,500
Oil FVF at Bubble-point Pressure, vol/vol                           1.81
Oil Viscosity at Bubble-point Pressure, cp                          0.24
Water Viscosity at Reservoir Conditions, cp                         0.23  6
Formation Compressibility, vol/vol/psi                           5.3 x 10-
Water Compressibility, vol/vol/psi                               3.6 x 10 6
SOURCE: Intercomp



ANNEX 3.02
TOOT OIL FIELD
Oil and Gas Production Forecast
Without the Project                   With the Project
Oil              Gas                Oil                 Gas
FY               BOPD             MMCFD               BOPD               MMCFD
1983/1984           2,697             8.3                2,943               9.2
85           2,000            6.2                2,995              12.3
86           2,000            8.3                2,915              15.5
87           1,956           12.1                2,932              25.8
88           1,745           16.5                2,055              19.1
89           1,238            14.9               1,616              15.2
90             926           10.1                1,219              11.9
91             745             7.9               1,006               9.8
92             633            6.7                  855               8.3
93             556            5.8                   737              7.2
94             493            5.1                  647               6.4
95             444            4.5                   573              5.7
96             397            4.0                   510              5.2
97             364            3.7                  455               4.7
98             334            3.4                  408               4.3
99             310            3.1                  364               4.0
1999/2000              288            2.9                  326               3.7
01             266            2.7                  290               3.4
02             249            2.6                   263              3.1
03             227            2.4                   238              2.9
Total a/             6.537           47.852              8.521              64.747
a/     Oil in million barrels, gas in bcf.
SOURCE: Intercomp
May 1983



ANNEX 3.03
-46 -                  Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
OIL AND GAS II PROJECT
Toot Reservoir Monitoring Program
The following program, designed to monitor the performance of the
Toot reservoir and to collect adequate reservoir data to enable the carrying
out of reservoir evaluation and field development studies incorporated in the
project will be implemented by OGDC.
(1)   Coring
Full diameter core samples will be obtained through the entire
Jurassic Section in Wells Nos. 16 and 17. Full diameter core
samples will be analyzed and special core studies will be
undertaken using the services of a competent laboratory.
(2)   Reservoir Fluid Samples
Although it may not be possible due to open hole completions in
recent wells to obtain a comprehensive sample of each layer,
efforts will be made to take a surface recombination sample
under stabilized conditions at wells Nos. 12, 15 and 5 for
comparison. Efforts will be made to condition the wells
properly and take samples when gas-oil ratios are reasonably
stabilized. At this time proper water samples will also be
taken. Recombination of oil and gas samples to the stabilized
GOR will be carried out to determine reservoir fluid
parameters. Test separators currently installed at each well
location will be utilized for this purpose. The services of
competent professionals in this field will be used to carry out
sampling and analyses.
(3)   Reservoir Pressure Surveys
The services of competent service companies will be used to
conduct bottom hole pressure surveys on a rotation basis once
every year for pressure build-ups and pressure gradient
surveys. The initial survey will be conducted on wells Nos. 5,
7, 10-A, 11, 12, 14 and 15 beginning not later than September
1983. A second survey will follow in April 1984. Initially,
wells will be shut in for at least 72 hours. Later shut-in
times will be determined on the basis of well
characteristics. (Well head pressure measurements and GOR
monitoring is being done on a regular basis. This information
will be documented and utilized in future reservoir analysis).
(4)   Fluid Measurements
Liquid flow rates of each well will be measured in individual
tanks located at Central Battery, thus, giving reliable
measurement of daily production of individual wells. For gas



- 47                  ANNEX 3.03
Page 2 of 2
measurements, flow recorders will be installed at individual
wells. These figures will be further confirmed by the sale
meter of the dehydration plant.
(5)   Testing
Each reservoir layer will be separately drill-stem tested in
all newly drilled wells. Tests will be of sufficient duration
to permit the evaluation of layer pressures and flow
parameters.
(6)   Logging
In each new Toot well, a complete suite of logs will be taken
comprising (i) Dual Induction - Spherically Focused Log with SP
and Gamma Ray curves, plus shallow, medium and deep Induction
Resistivity curves; (ii) Compensated Neutron-Formation Density
Log, with Gamma Ray, Bulk Density, Neutron Porosity, Caliper
and Delta Rho curves; and (iii) Borehole compensated Sonic Log,
with Gamma Ray, Caliper and Integrated Travel Time curves, or
equivalent logs.
Energy Department
February 1983



PAKISTAN
OIL AND GAS 11 PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1 982                       1983                         1984                         1 985                        1986
OO1 PHASE iI DELOPMENT
Drellsr  Monitoing &  Engmneering
Field Supporl Facilities                                                                 T             C     ||                ________                    
Infrastructure                                      lB  I l                              Tl                  l      2  C                   ___1         1__ ||         
EXPLORATORY DRILLING
OGDC Rig                                                                             ,    FI icIr
Contractor Rig 
SEISMIC SURVEYS                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & EXPLORATION PROMOTION
Procurement of Seismic Dato Processing System
IT  B1       C                                        - 
lechnical Assistance & Regional Studies
v T   Tender Documents Issued
V B   Bids Due
V C   Contract Award or Purchase Order Dote
V D   Material & Equipment Delivery
Energy Department                               V M   Mobilization                                                                                                                                                   X
February 1983                                                                                                                                                                   World Bank-24704



ANNEX 3.05
PAKISTAN
Second Toot Oil and Cas Development Project
Project Cost Estimates
US$ itillion                         Rs Mfillion
F.E.      L.C.         TOTAL       F.E.           L.C.        TOTAL
I.       Toot Phase II Development
Drilling and Completion                                                              22.745    11.302        34.047    284.3           141.3        425.6
Production Facilities                                                                 3.590      0.690        4.280      44.9            8.6         53.5
Field Support Facilities                                                              2.264     0.652         2.916      28.3            8.2         36.5
Infrastructure                                                                       0.085      2.035         2.120       1.1          25.4          26.5
Reservoir Monitoring, Engineering and Design                                          0.836      0.209        1.045      10.5            2.6         13.1
Subtotal                                                                       29.520    14.888        44.408    369..0          186.1         555.1
Custom Duties                                                                                    1.126        1.126                     14.1         14.1
Total Project Base Cost                                                              29.520    16.014        45.534    369.0           200.2        569.2
Contingencies: Physica, a/                                                            7.453      3.876       11.329      93.2           48.5        141.7
Price b                                                              4.455      2.211         6.666      55.7          27.6          83.3
PPF Refinancing                                                                       0.210                   0.210       2.6                         2.6
Front-end Fee                                                                         0.075                   0.075       0.9                         0.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                                            41.713    22.101         63.814    521.4           276.3        797.7
30% on drilling and completion, 10% on others.
b/       For foreign costs:  8% p.a. in CY 1982 and 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7.0% in 1985 and 6.0% therafter.
For local costs:  8.0% in FY 1983, 7.8% in 1984, 7.0% in 1985 and 6.5% in 1986.



ANNEX 3.06
PAKISTAN
OIL AND GAS II PROJECT
Phasing of Expenditures
(US$ Million)
1982/83                 1983/84                 1984/85                          TOTAL
F.E.        1L. C.      F.E.      L.C.         F.E.   _   L.C.            F.E.        L.C.         TOTAL
I.  l~~~~~~~~oot Phase II Development0
Drilling and Completion                                    9.071      3.972        11.482      6.242       2.192      1.155         22.745        11.302      34.114
Production Facilities                                                               2.872      0.552       0.718      0.138          3.590        0.690        4.280
Field Support Facilities                                                            1.585      0.456       0.679      0.196          2.264         0.652       2.916
Infrastructure                   .                                      =           0.060      1.425       0.025      0.610          0.085        2.035        2.120
Res. '1onitoring, Engineering and Design                   0.084      0.021         0.502      0.125       0.250      0.063          0.836        0.209        1.045
Customs Duties                                                        --        0.113          --        0.750         --       0.243 243_--                1.126        1.106
Subtotal                                                       9.155       4.106         16.501     9.550       3.864      2.405          29.520       16.014      45.581
Physical Contingencies                                              2.730       1.205         3.960      1.863       0.763      0.761          7.453        3.876      11.329
Price Contingencies                                                 0.475       0.212         2.775      1.205       1.205     0.794           4.455        2.211       6.666
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                                  12.360      5.523        23.236    12.618        5.832      3.960         41.428       22.101      63.529



- 51 -
ANNEX 3.07
PAKISTAN
SECOND OIL AND GAS PROJECT
Estimated Disburesments of Bank Loan
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year                Amount                      Cumulative
and Quarter                  Disbursed                   Disbursements
1984   III                     13.6                        13.6
IV                       8.4                        2 .0
1985   I                        2.3                        24.3
II                       3.4                       27.7
III                      1.2                        28.9
IV                       0.5                        29.4
1986   I                        0.6                        30.0
Total           30.0
Energy Department
April 1983



PAKISTAN
OIL AND GAS 11 PROJECT
OGDC Organizotion Chart
D19ECT09ADNUNIST9ATONL(FINANAGER             GM (PUBUC 9ELATIONS)                                          GM. TECH. & PROJECTS
FHO{OCODIRPCORAT
-  t   PLANNING                          W
-EE ]  Ll:-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  [Itfl-                               MANAGrR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~If
t                                     { ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHIEF 
Voil Bcr,k-2470D
tn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
X|



- 53 -
ANNEX 4.02
Page 1 of 5
PAKISTAN
SECOND OIL AND GAS PROJECT
Action Plan for Improvement in OGDC Finances
Decentralization of Accounting Function
1.       It has been agreed that decentralization of accounting function would
be organized towards Toot division and Pirkoh Gas Company Limited. These
divisions will become fully responsible for the production of their financial
information, Trial Balance and Cost Analysis. It was agreed that PGCL and
Toot transfer of accounts will be fully realized by October 31, 1983.
Pirkoh Gas Company Limited (PGCL)
2.       PGCL was created in February, 1982.  Accounts are to be transferred
with cut off date as of June, 1982. Accounting staff (a deputy chief
accountant, an accountant and two assistant accountants) have already been
hired. The following steps are to be taken to achieve the full transfer of
accounting at Pirkoh.
(a) Hiring of two accountants. It has been agreed that this would
be done by March 1  1983 *
(b) Trial Balance, as of June 30, 1982 is to be given ko PGCL. It
is agreed that this will be done in February 1983
(c) Intercompany accounts from July to November 1982 need to be
reconciled. It is agreed that reconciliation for these months
would be completed by June 30, 1983.* OGDC will furthermore
recruit an accountant by June 1983 who will be responsible for
following up on intercompany transactions.
(d) Fixed Assets Register, duly updated for movements from June 1982
to December 1982 should be transferred to PGCL as of April 30,
1983.
(e) The inventory based on the inventory prepared by A. F. Ferguson
duly updated for issues and receipts to stores upto December
1982 will be provided to PGCL by September 30, 1983.
(f) A procedure for charging common OGDC services (drilling,
logging, cementing, etc.) should be written in June, 1983 by
OGDC Financial Controller.
(g) As of October 31, 1983 the transfer of accounting function to
PGCL will therefore have been completed- The Fixed Asset
Register will later be updated in light of a physical inventory.
1/       Some of the tasks described below have already been achieved at time
of negotiations. They are marked with an asterisk-



- 54 -
ANNEX 4.02
Page 2 of 5
PGCL will be responsible for processing and accounting of its
own material movements. It will, for this purpose, liaise
directly with the Karachi Gas Company or other computing
services facilities until such time as it has its own computer
facilities
Toot Oil Field Division
3.       Toot oil field division was set up in September/October 1982, and an
accounting manual has already been issued (October 24, 1982). An accounting
department has been set up consisting of a deputy chief accountant, a
materials accountant, and a ledger accountant. The following steps are still
to be taken to allow an independent accounting unit to operate for the Toot
Oil Field Division
(a) Additional staff have to be hired for this division. It was
agreed these will be hired as follows;
Staff                           Date of Engagement
Sr. Acctt. Ledger                    June 30, 1983
Asst. Acctt. Materials               June 30, 1983
Asst. Acctt. Imprest                 June 30  1983
(b)  A cut off date of June 30, 1983 is agreed upon for the transfer
of Toot Division accounts. It is also agreed that OGDC
accounting department will produce a Trial Balance as of that
cut off date by the latest October 31, 1983.
(c) Documents and Accounting ledgers need to be printed for*use by
Toot Division. This will be done by February 28 1983.
(d) The transfer of Fixed Assets Register duly updated for movements
from June 30 1982 to cut off date will be made on October 31,
1983. This fixed asset register will later on be updated in
light of a physical inventory to be performed.
(e) Updated inventory of materials, will be ready in October 31,
1983. Toot division will be made responsible for subsequent
updating of the inventory.
(f) The independence of Toot Division will therefore be effective
from an accounting standpoint by October 31 1983.
Development of a Computer System
4.       It is agreed that OGDC will develop a computer system to support the
new accounting system. It will investigate the use of microcomputer
facilities in the different operational locations. For this purpose it has



- 55 -
ANNEX 4.02
Page 3 of 5
been agreed that a review of computer support requirements would be undertaken
in the next 6 months in light of the new operational set up. As OGDC
currently uses an ICL configuration computer program for accounting of its
stores movements, it was agreed that lease time from Expert Advisory cell in
Islamabad would be used to record PGCL and Toot stores until a final decision
in this connection is made.
5.       As regards the overall accounting system, Consultants (ENAR
Petrotech) are currently developing it.  The consultants would develop the
system as follows: (i) Cash Books General Ledger and Trial Balance would be
completed by September 30, 1983; and (ii) Subsidiary ledL>ers and MIS reports
by October 31, 1983.
Improvment in Internal Control
Materias Inventory
6.       A physical inventory was taken by A. F. Ferguson from December 1981
to September 1982. The new masterfile is to serve as a new basis for
accounting purposes since it tallies with actual quantities in store, and
should also serve as a basis for store control purposes. The accounting
department is now involved in the valuation of this inventory. It will also
have to account stores issues and receipts subsequent to the physical
inventory. In order not to lose the benefit of this physical inventory and to
make out of the new masterfile a store control base document this process
should be completed in the shortest possible time. It was agreed that full
valuation of the new masterfile would be achieved by February 15, 1983, and
that all stores issues and receipts would be accounted for on a timely basis
by June 30, 1983.
Indexing*
7.       Indexing of all items is necessary to ensure satisfactory store
control throughout OGDC. This task has been progressing slowly. About 10,000
items remain to be indexed. The pace of work should, therefore, be
considerably increased. It was agreed that the organizatJon of the task
should be reviewed with the objective of completing this task before March
1983-  OGDC management agreed   (i) to closely monitor thc- progress of the
task; (ii) as required, call upon external manpower to help supervise the
execution of the work and its completion prior to the agrped deadline, and
(iii) allocate all necessary internal resources.
Fixed Assets Control
8.       The fixed assets ledger needs to be updated in light of a full
physi-al inventory. It is agreed that a full inventory of OGDC fixed assets
will be carried out. It is estimated that the full physi.al inventory will
take about 22 months. It is agreed that this work will be carried out by
consultants. The consultants terms of reference will include: (i) evolving
an indexing system for all OGDC fixed assets (ii) physical stocktaking



- 56 -
ANNEX 4.02
Page 4 of 5
(iii) tagging of all fixed assets, and (iv) evolving the updated fixed asset
register per location. It was agreed that work would start in Mid June 1983.
Obsolescence
9.       OGDC material accounts include obsolete materials which are still to
be written off. This results in a distortion of the assets figures reported
by OGDC in its Balance Sheet. It was agreed that immediate steps would be
taken and necessary authorization from government and Board of Directors would
be sought before August 1983 to: (i) make a provision for obsolescence in the
accounting records, (ii) identify the equipment which should be disposed of,
and (iii) segregate them.
Payroll
10.      The Corporation's payroll is processed by a Service Bureau.  However,
there is an urgent need to streamline the various functions of the payroll
department. A full review of this function should be undertaken with the help
of external resources. It was agreed that a consultant would be hired by May,
1983 under terms of reference to be evolved by the Financial Controller and
that the assignment would be carried out before August, 1983. The consultants
would review internal procedures to ensure that satisfactory controls exist
for the establishment and payment of payroll, that procedures to account for
transfer of personnel are adequate and that outsanding accounts of payroll as
shown in the Trial Balance are regularly reviewed.
Decentralization of Control Function
11.      As Pirkoh and Toot will become responsible for their accounting for
materials and fixed assets, it is agreed that the control function would also
be held by these entities. Toot division and Pirkoh accounting departments
will therefore be responsible for ensuring that their accounts are actually
reflecting reality. Procedures for control of fixed assets and inventory
control of obsolescence etc. will be designed so as to decentralize internal
control responsibility towards these operational units. This will include the
organization of physical inventories of materials for the two decentralized
units. Procedure to that effect will be written and issued by OGDC Controller
before October 30 1983.
Expensing Low Cost Inventories
12.      It is recommended that low cost materials such as nuts, bolts and
other inexpensive items (upto Rs.100 per item) be directly expensed upon
receipt. While physical control would be retained on these items, there would
be no paper flow with accounting departments and these items would be taken
out of the accounting inventory. This would considerably alleviate the work
of the accounting department and would speed up the costing process at the end
of each accounting period. Authorization procedures for issues could remain
unchanged, and control of stocks would be the responsibility of the warehouse
managers. It is agreed that the financial controller will write a procedure



- 57 -
ANNEX 4.02
Page 5 of 5
to that effect which will be submitted for the approval of OGDC Management and
if required of the Board of Directors prior to July, 1983.
Financial Controller's Counterpart
13.      The contract of the financial controller (Mr. Joe Cassar) will expire
in March 1984. Chairman, OGDC, has indicated that approval has been given for
the engagement of the financial controller's counterpart who will take over
the financial controller's responsibilities when he departs. It is essential
that the offer be sufficiently attractive to ensure that the counterpart
actually joins. It has been agreed that a monthly report on the progress of
the above action plan would be prepared by Mr. Joe Cassar and his Pakistani
counterpart and would be sent to the Bank.



- 58 -
ANNEX 5.01
PAKISTAN
SECOND OIL AND GAS PROJECT
OGDC - Comparative Income Statements
1978 - 1982
(In Million Rupees)
Income Statements                   1978       1979       1980       1981        1982
Operating Reven?ues                 21.8       35.1       34.6       36.9       89.1
Less Operating Expenses             27.0      (28.3)    (23.2)    (65.5)         65.6
Operating Profit (Loss)             (5.2)       6.8       11.4      (28.6)      23.5
Other Income                        11.7        4.0         3.9      42.8       (28.2)
Net Profit                           6.5       10.8       15.3        14.2       (4.7)
Extraordinary Items                                                           (162.4)
Retained Profit                                                               (167.1)



- 59 -
ANNEX 5.02
PAKISTAN
SECOND OIL AND GAS PROJECT
OGDC - Balance Sheets
1978 - 1982
(In Million Rupees)
Balance Sheet                      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982
Assets
Fixed Assets                      103.1      149.7      176.3     173.4      205.3
Deferred Revenue Expenditure    755.1   1,022.5   1,365.3   1,687.8   1,134.7
Gratuity Fund                       8.1        8.1        8.1      13.1        9.1
Current Assets                  1,079.5   1,235.4   1,350.5   1,633.3   1,868.3
Investments                         --         --        --         --       293.9
Other Assets                       97.2       97.2      97.2       97.2       97.2
Deficit                             --         --         --        --       839.4  /
Total Assets                     2043.0    2512.9    2997.3    3604.8    4447.9
Liabilities
ADP Cash Grant                  1,249.7   1,674.8   2,143.9   2,612.6   3,302.8
Other Government Grants           347.0      401.2     423.7      443.2      459.9
Long Term and Deferred
Liabilities                     358.2      299.5     273.1      404.1      514.5
Current Liabilities                61.1      137.4     156.6      144.9      170.7
2,043.0   2,512.9   2,997.3   3,604.8   4,447.9
Debt Equity Ratio                21/79      17/83     14/86      15/85  20/80 2
I/ This item is reflecting the reclassification of the rapitalized
expenditures for dry and abandoned wells, geological and geophysical expenses
and administrative cost for non-producing properties. (para. 5.04).
2/ Debt Equity Ratio - Debt Including Current Liabilities.



ANEX 5.03
PAKISTAN
TUT DEVElOPMENT PROJECT
OGDC PROJECTED SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNIIS
(IN MIlLION RUPEES)
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987      1988
SOURCES
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                    33,7    307.3    702.0    888.0  1r247.3  lr309.1
LESS DEBT SERVICE: INTEREST                  Z7.0    152.3    202.2    225.4    284.2    364.9
PRINCIPAL               37.5      98.4   1l1.7    107.1    132.1        132.1
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                        (124.5)  (250.7)  (303.9)  (332.5)  (416.3)  (497.0)
INTERNAL CASH tiENERAfION
NET OF DEBT SERVICE                         (90.8)    56.6    398.1    555.5    831.0    812.1
BUDGETARY SOURCES                       1125.8  2r556.4  lr606.9  1;820.5  2Y203.0  2r229.9
EXTERNAL FINANCING                         302.0    617.0    2j6.0    243.0    798.0    579.0
TOTAL. SOIURCES                          1;337.0  3,2.40.0  27261.0  2,619.0  37832.0  3,621.0
APPLICAIAIONS
EXPLORATION                                390.0  tr200.0  lr400,.O  Ir50.0  lr860.0  2rO(O.O
TUT                                        403.50    477.0    119.0           -        -         -
MODERNIZATION OF EQUIPMENT                      -    100.0    125.0    137.0        22.0         -
SARI HUNDI                                      -      11.0      7.0         -         -         -
PIRKDH                                     295.0    750.0    293.0    216.0    499.0    517.0
DHODAK PILOT GAS RFTNJECTlXN PROJECT            -    ' 523.0    15.0          -        -
DHODAK DEVELOPMENT                              -         -    108.0    258.0    813.0    445.0
NEW DISUOVERIES                                 -                   -    183.0    474.0    495'.0
JOINT VENTURES                             179.0    111.0    164.0    164.0    164.0    164.0
OTHER                                        70.0     58.0                11.0                   -
TOTAL                                    1y337.0  3,230.0  27261.0  2,619.0  37832.1  3,621.0
DEBI SERVXCE COVERAGE                       0.27      1.23      2.31      2.67      3.00      2.63
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM PRO.JECT DIVISION 1
12/15/83



ANNEX 5.04
PAKISThN
TUT DEVELOPMENT PRO-JEC'T
INCOME STATEMENT
(IN 11ILLION OF lJS DOLLARS)
1980     1981     1982       1983
PRICE OF GAS, $/MCF                      0.14     0.14     0.14       0.14
PRICE OF CRUDE OIL, $/BBL               3,52      3.52     3.52       3.52
PRICE OF LPI;, S/BBL                     3.52     3.S52    3.52       3.52
TOTAL PRODUCTION OF GAS, MMCF               -        -  694.01  2r737.50
TOTAL PRODUCTIOtl OF OIL,OO0  4BLB.  262.07  639.12  5i(8.08    912.50
TOTAL PRODUCTION OF LPG, OOOBBLS            -        -        -           -
REVEilJE8y GAS                              -        -    0.10        0.38
REVENUES, OIL                           0.92      2-25    1.79        3.21
REVENUES, LPG                               -        -        -           -
TOTAL. REVENUlES  TtJT FIELD            0.92      2.25     1.89       3.59
OPERATING EXPENSES
OPERATING COSTS                          1.54     1.69     1.86       2.05                                                                               a,
DEPRECIATION                             0.09     0.60     0.88       3.07
TOTAL CosT OF PRODUJCTION                1.63     2.29     2.74       5.12
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST                 (0.71)  (0.04)  (0.85)        (1.53)
INTEREST LONG TERl1 LOANS               0.69      1.95     3.90       6.17
NET INCOME AFTER INTEREST               (1.40)  (1.99)   (4.75)      (7.70)
OPERATING RATIO                          1.77     1.02     1.45       1.43
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM PROJECT DIVISION 1
12/1 5/83



PAKISTAN                                                                                              ANNEX 5.05
TUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BALANCE SHEETS
(IN MILLION OF US DOLLARS)
1980   1981   1982    1983
ASSETS
GROSS FIXED ASSETS                        11.40  32.10  47.90   76.20
LESS ACCUMIULATED DEPRECXATION             (0.25) (0.85) (1./3)  (4.80)
NET  FIXED ASSETS                         11.15  31.25  46.17   71.40
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                        0.03   0.06   0.05    0.10
CASH                                        0.03   0.05   0.09    0.14
TOTAL ASSETS                              11.21  31L36  46.31   71.64
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
CAPITAL                                    7.16   8.03  16.42   25.65
RETAINED EARNINGS (ACCUMULATED LOSS)   (1,12) (3.11) (7.86) (1.56)
TOTAL EQUITY                               6.04   4.92   8.56   10.09
WORLD BANK LOANS                           4.30  21.20  33.70   39.20
OTHER LONG TERM LOANS                          -       -       -    8.90
TOTAL. LONG FERM lIABILITIES                4.30  21,20  33.70   48.10
CUR. PORTION LONG TERM LOANS                   -       -       -    6.30
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                           0.87   5.24   4.05    7.15
TOTAI. CURRENT LIA8ILITIES                  0.87   5.24   4.05   13.45
TOTAL LIABIlITIES AND EQl3ITY             11.21  31.36  46.31   /1.64
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM FROJECT DIVISION 1
12/15/83



PAKISTAN
TUT DEVELOPMENT PRO.JECT                                                                        ANNEX 5.06
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS                                                               '       -
(IN MILLION US DOLLARS)
1980   1981   1982   1983
SOURCES
NET INCOME BEFORE INTEREST           (0.71) (0.04) (0.85) (1.53)
DEPRECIATION                          0.09   0.60   0.88   3.07
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION             (0.62)  0.56   0.03   1.54
IN(CREASE IN ACCOUNTS PAYABLE        (1.32)  4.37  (1.19)  3.10
TOTAL LON(  TERI1 DRAWINGS            2.80  16.90  12.50  2':0.70
INCREASE IN CAPITAL                   2.81   0.87   8.39   9.23
TOT'AL SOURCES                        3.67  22.70  19.73  34.57
USES OF FUNDS                                                                                                                                      L
FIXED ASSETS                          3-00  20.70  15.80  28.30
INCREASE IN ACCOUNTS RECEIVABIE  (0.04)  0.03  (O.0t)  0.05
INCREASE IN CASH                      0.01   0.02   0.04   0.05
INTEREST' ON LONG TERN1 LOANS         0.41   1.79   3.84   6.17
REPAYMENT WORLD BANK LOANS               -       -       -       -
REPAYMENT OTHER iONG TERM LOANS                  -       -       -
COMMITMENT FEE                        0.28   0.16   0.06         -
FROQN' END FEE                               -           -
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                    0.69   1.95   3.90   6.17
TOT'AL APPL(CATIONS                   3.67  22,YO  19.73  34.57
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                (0.90)  0.29   0.01   0.25
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM PROJECT DIVISION 1
12/15/83



FPAKISTAN
TUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                            ANNEX 5.07
INCOME STATEMENT
(IN MILLION OF IS DOLLARS)
1984       1985       1986       1987        1988       1989        1990       1991       1992
FRICF- E OF (,oA, $/MCF                   0.40        0.44       0.48       0.53        0.58       0.64       0.70        0.77       0.85
PRICE OF CRUDE OIL, $/BBL                16.00       17.60      19.36      21.30      23.43       25.77      28.35       31.19      34.31
PRICE OF LP1,, $/BBL                     16.00       17.60      19.36      21.30       23.43      25.77      28.35       31.19      34.31
TOTAL PRODUCTION OF GAS, MMCF         3,358.00  4v489.50  5F657.,50  9,417.00  6r971.50  5r548.00  4r307.00  3,577.0()  3;029.50
TOTAL. PROIDUCTION OF Ol.,OOO BBLS  1.074.20  t,OY3.18  1,063.98  1,010.18    750.08    589.84    444.94    367.19    312.08
TOTAL PRODUCTION OF LFG, OOOBBLS        167.90    224.50    282.90    470.90    348.60    277.40    215.40    178.90               151.50
REVENIJES, GAS                             1.34       1.98       2.72       4.99        4.04       3.55       3.01        2.75       2.58
REVENUES, OIL                            17.19       19.24      20.60      22.79       17.57      15.20      12.61       11.4'5     10.71
REVENUESY LPG                             2.69        3.95       'i.48     10.03        8.17       7.15       6.11        5.58       5.20
TOTAL. REVENOES, TOT FIELD               21.22       25 .17     28.80      37.81      29.78       25.90      21.73       19.78      18.49
OPERATING EXPENSES
OPERATING COSTS                           2.26        2.49       2.74       3.01        3.31       3.64       4.00      *4.40        4.84
DEPRECIATION                              6.17        7.66       8.49      11.53        8.38       6.64       5.11        4.23       3.59
TOTAL COST OF PRODIUCTION                 8.43       10.15      11.23      14.54       11.69      10.28       9.11        8.63       8.43
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST                   12.79       15.02      17.57      23.27      18.09       15.62      12.62       11.15      10.06
INTEREST LONG IERM LOANS                  9.21       10.61      10.29       9.31        8.15       7.22       6.55        5.88       5.21
NET INCOME AFTER INTEREST                 3.58        4.41       7.28      13.96        9.94       8.40       6.07        5.27       4.85
OFERATING RATIO                           0.40        0.40       0.39       0.38        0.39       0.40       0.42        0.44       0.46
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM PROJECT DIVISION 1
12/15/83



PAKISTAN AAMX N.08
TUT DEVELOPMENT PRO.JECT
BALANCE SHE.TS
(IN MILLION OF UIS DOLLARS)
1984     1985    1986      1987    1988      1989     1990     1991     1992
ASSETS
GROSS FIXED ASSETS                        116.50  126.10  126.10  126.10  126.10  126.10  126.10   126.1O  1'610
LESS ACCIUMULATED D)EPRECIATION            (10.97) (18.63) (2 /.t2) (38.65) (47.03)  (53.67) (:S8.78  (63.01) (66.60)
NET  FIXED ASSETS                         tOi.53  107.4'7   98.98   87,45   79.07   72.43   67.32   63.09   59.50
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                         0.58    0.69    0.79        1.04    0.82    0.71       0.60    0.54    0.51
CASH                                         0.32    0.S'      7.98    ?4-94   33.5-!0   45.S8   52.10   56.89   60.60
TOTAL ASSETS                              106,43  to8.51  t tO7.7,5  tt3.4.S 115.09  lt8.'2  120.02  120-52  120.61
Ch
LIABILITIES AND EOIlITY                                                                                                                              U.
CAPITAL                                    33.09   37.21   3/.21   37.21   37.21   37.21   37.21   37.21   37.21
RETAINED EARNINGSS (ACCUMIJLATED LOSS)  (11.98)  (7.5,)  (0.29)  13,67   23.61   32.01    S8.08   43.35   48.20
TOTAL. EOUITY                               21.tt   29.64  3-6.92  50.88   60.82   69.22   /5..29   80.'56   85.41
WORLD BANK LOANS                           58.40   63.00   58.80   54.00   49.20   44.40   39. 60   34.80   30.(0
OTHER IONG TERM LOANS                       10.50    7,00      3.50        -        -        -         -        -        _
TOTAL LON13 TERM LIABILITIES                68.90   /0.00   62.30   5'4.00   49.20   44.40   39.60   34.80   30.00
CUR. PORTION LONG TERM LOANS                 6.30    6.30    8.30    8.30    4-80    4.80    4.80    4.80    4.80
ACCOUIJNTS PAYABLE                          1t).12    2.57    0.23    0.25    0.27    0.s0    0.33    0.36    0.40
TOTAL CUJRRENT LIABILITIES                  16.42    8.87    8.53       8.-55    5.07    5.10    5.13    5.16    5.20
TOTAL. LIA8ILT'rfES AND EQUITY            106-43  108.5'1  107.75  113.43  115.09  118.72  120.02  120.52  120.61
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM PROJECT DIVISION 1
12/15/83



P AKI1ST AN'                                                                         ANNEX 5.09
TUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOURCES AND AFPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(IN MILLION US IIOLLARS)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992
SOIJRCES
NET INCOME BEFORE INTEREST           12.79  15.02  17.57  23.27  18.09  15.62  12.62  11.15  10.06
DEPRECIATION                          6.17   7.66   8.49  11.53   8.38   6.64   5.11   4.23   3.59
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION             18.96  22.68  26.06  34.80  26.47  22.26  17.73  15.38  13.65
INCREASE IN ACCOUNTS PAYABLE          2.97  (7.55) (2.34)  0.02   0.02   0.03   0.03   0.03   0.04
TOTAl LONG TERM DRAWINGS             27.10   7.40   0.60          -       -       -       -       -       -
INCREASE IN CAPITAL                   7.44   4.12         -       -       -       -       -       -       -
TOTAL SOURCES                        56.47  26.65  24.32  34.82  26,49  22.29  17.76  15.41  13.69
0'
USES OF FIJNDS
FIXED ASSETS                         40.30   9.60         -       -       -                       -       -
INCRE.ASE IN ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE   0.48    .11  0o.tO   0.25  (0.22) (0.11) (0.11) (0.06) (0.03)
INCREASE IN CASH                      0.18   0.03   7.63  16.96  10.26  10.38   6.52   4.79   3,71
INTERESI ON LONt3 TERM LOANS          9,07  tO.61  10.29   9.3t   8.1.5   7,22   6.55   5.88   5.21
REPAYMENT WORLD BANK LOANS            2.80   2,80   2.80   4.80   4.80   4.80   4.80   4.80   4,80
REPAYMENT OTHER LONG TERN1 LOANS   3.'50   3.50  3:,'O   3.50   3.50              -       -       -       -
COMMITMENT FEE                        0.06        -       -       -       -       -               -       -
FRONT END FEE                         0.08        -       -       -       -               -
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                   15.51  16.91  16.59  1..61  164r;  12,02  11.35  10.68  10.01
TOTAL APPILICAI'IONS                 56,47  26.65  24 .32  3 4,82  26. 49  22.29  17.76  t5.41  13.69
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                 1.22   1,134   1.57   1 98   1.61   1,85   1.56   1.44   1.36
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM1 PROJECT TIIVI!iION 1
12/15/83



- 67 -
ANNEX 5.10
OGDC
Toot Project
Assumptions Used for Financial Analysis
A. Revenues
(i)    The 1984 price of gas is assumed to be $0.40/TIcf net of
royalties; that of oil and of LPG $16/Bbl. These prices are increased
thereafter by 10% each year.
(ii)   Production profiles are based on Intercomp Report issued in
December, 1982 and revised in HIay 1983.
B. Costs
(i)    Depreciation is computed on a unit of production basis.  The
fixed asset base comprehends cost of wells 1, 4, 6, 7, IOA, 11, 12, 14 and 15
as well as 4 new wells under the upcoming project. Costs of wells, dry, or
abandoned, before producing substantial quantities of oil were not taken into
account in this analysis.
(ii)   Operating costs are estimated at $2.3 million in 1984 and are
assumed to increase by 10% each year thereafter.
(iii) OGDC is not expected to pay taxes on its income in the
projected period in view of its high exploration costs.
C. Working Capital
(i)    Accounts receivable are taken to be ten days of average
revenues from sales.
(ii)   Accounts payable are estimated at 30 days of operating
expenses. Terms for payment of capital equipment are assumed to be 90 days
after delivery.
(iii) HIinimum cash requirements are projected to be 7 days of local
currency expenditures.



PAKISTAN                                                          ANNEX 6.01
TOOT DEVELOFP11ENT PRO JECT
NEW WELLS
ECUNI)M-1C ANALYSIS
(IN MILLION OF CONSTANT 1983 US DOLLARS)
1983     1984       1985        1986       1987     1988      1989     1990     1991     1992
MARGINAIL PRODUCTION OF OILY OOOBBL                 -   90.00    463.00    ;S34.00    356.00  114.00  122.00  107.00   95.00   81.00
GAS MARGINAL PRODUCTION, MMCF                       -  328.00  2r227.00  2.628.00  5000(.00  949.00  109.0()  620.00  693.00  'i84.00
MARGINAL PRODUCTION OF LPt3OOOBBL                   -   t6.40      11.30    tS31.40       250.10    47.'50     5.50   31.10   34.70    29.20
UNIT VALUE OF OIL FRODUCTION  $ FPER BBL   34.00   34.00            34.00       34.85      35.72    36.61    37.53   38.47    39.43    40.42
UNIT VALUlE OF GAS PRODUCTION, $ PER MCF    4.42          4.31       4.19        4.33       4.47      4.51     4.65     4.88     5.09     S.30-
UNIT VALUE OF LPG PRODUCTIONr $ PER BBL   34-00   34.00             34.0()      34.85      35.72   ;3.61    37,53   38.47    39.43   40.42
VALIJE OF INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION OF OIL             -    3.06       12.34       11.64      12.72      4.17     4.58     4.12     3.75      3 .27
VALUE OF IN'CREMENTAL FRODUCTIOIN OF GAS            -    1.41        9.33       11.38      22.3'     4.28      0.'1    3.03      3.53      3.10
VALUE OF INCREMENTAL PRRODUCTION OF LPG             -    0.56        3.78        4.58       8.93      1.74     0.21     1.20     1.37    1.18
TOTAl. VALUE OF INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION              -    r.03       ,j .45      27.60      44.00    10.19      5.30     8.3'     8.65      7.55
INCREMENTAL CAPITAL COSTS                       t7.80   40.30        9.60           -           -        -        -        -         -        -
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                  -           -          -                    -        -                  -        -
TOTAL INCREMENTAL COSTS                         17.80   40.30        9.60           -           -        -        -
NET INCREMENTAL BENEFITS                       (17.80) (35.27)      15.83i      27.60      44.00    1(.1lY    35.30     8.35     8.65      7.55
FRESENT VALUE OF NET BENEFITS                  (15.89) (28.12)      11.28       17.54      24.97     '.16      2.40      .37     3.12      2.43
ACCUMULATED PRESENT VALIJE OF BENEFITS         (15.89) (44.01)    (32.73)   (15.19)         9.78    14.94    17.34    20.71    23.83    26.26
ACCUMULATED PRESENT VALUE OF BENEFITS           35.28        -           -          -           -        -        -        -         -        -
RETURN ON INVESTMENT - 30.812%
ENERGY DEF'ARTMENT
FETROLEUM PROJECT DIVISION 1
12/15/83



ANNEX 6.02
FAKISTAN                                                     Page 1 of 2
TOOT 1:EVELOPMENT PRO.JECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(IN MILLION OF CONSTANT 1983 'IS DflLLAgS)
1979    1980    1981      1982       1983        1984       1985       1986        1987
PRODUCTION OF OIL, OOOBBL                        638.02  262.07  639.12  5()8.08    912.50  1,074.20  1,093.18  1,063.98  1,070.18
PRODUCTION OF GAS,  MMCF                              -        -        -  694.01  2r737.50  3 3.8.00  4v489.50  5r657.50  9Y417.00
PRODUCTION OF LP(;, OOOBBL                            -        -        -        -          -    167.90    224.50    282.90    470.90
UNIT VALUE OF PRODUCTION OF OIL, $ PER BBI        . 17.77   31.02   36.70   33.75      34.00       34.00      34.00      34.85       35.72
UNIT VALUE OF PRODUCTION OF  .ASP, $ FER ,MF    1.94    3.69    5.1.9    4.30            4.42       4.31       4.19        4.33       4.47
UNIT VALUE OF PRODUCTION OF LPGv $ PER BBL   17.77   31.02   36.70   33.75             34.00       34.00      34.00      34.85       35.72
VALUlE OF PRODUCTION
OIL                                               11.34    8.13   23.46   17.15        31.03       36.52      37.17      37.08       38.23
GAS                                                   -        -        -    2.98       t2.10      14.47      18.81      24.50       42.09
LPG                                                   -        -        -        -          -       5.71       7.63       9.86       16.82
TOTAL VALUE OF PRODUCTION                         11.34    8.13   23.46   20.13        43.13       56.70      63.61      71.44       97.14
COSTS
CAFITAL COSTS                                     18.10    4.00   25.00   17.40        28.30       40-30       9.60           -          -
OPERATINO l:OSTS                                   2.)00    2.00    2.00    2.00         2.00       2.00       2.00        2.00       2.00
TOTAL  COSTS                                      20.tO    6.00   27.00   t9.40         30.30      42.30      11.60        2.00       2.00
NET  BENEFITS                                    (8.76)   2.13   (3.54)   0,73         12.83      14.40      52.01      69.44       95.14
UNIT COSI' OF A  BBL                              11.65        -        -        -          -           -          -          -          -
PRESENT VALUE OF NET BENEFITS                     (7.82)   1.70   (2.52)   0.46          7.28       7.30      23.53      28.05       34.31
ACCUMULATED PRESENT VALlUE OF BENEFITS            (7.82)  (6.12)  (8.64)  (8.18)        (0.90)      6.40      29.93       57,98      92.29
ACCUMULATED PRESENT VALUE OF BENEFITS               181                 -                         -          -          -           -
RETURN IN IMVESTMENT = 70.898%
ENtRGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM PROJECT DIVISION 1
12/15/83



ANNEX 6.02
PAKISTAN                                                   Page 2 of 2
TOOT DEVELOPMENT PRO-JECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(IN MILL(ON OF CONSTANT 1983 UJS DOLLoRS)
1988       1989       1990       1991       1992
PRODUCTION OF OIL. OOOBBL                          7i0.08    589.84    444.94    367.19           2.92
PRODUCTION OF GAS,  MMCF                        6,971.50  5r548.00  4r307.0O  3v577.00  3,029,50
PRODUCTION OF LP'3. OOOBBL                         348.60    277.40    215.40       178.90    1.1.00
UNIT VALUE OF PRODUCTION OF OIL, $ PER BRt.         36.61      37.53      38.47      39.43      40.42
UNIT VALUE OF PRODIJCTION OF GASY $ PER MCF          4.51       4.65       4.88       5.09        5.30
UNIT VALUE OF PRODUCTION OF LPG, $ PER BBL          36.61      37.53      38.47      39.43      40.42
VALUIE OF PRODrUJtTION
OIL                                                 27.46      22.14      17.12      14.48        0.12
GAS                                                 31.44      25.80      21.02      18.21       16.06
LPG                                                 12.76      10.41       8.2?       7.05        6.10
TOTAL VALUE OF FRODUCTION                           71.66      58.35      46.43      39.74      22.28
COSTS
CAPITAL COSTS
OPERAllMt.N  COSTS                                   2.00       2.00       2.00       2.00        2.00
TOTAL  COSTS                                         2.00       2.00       2.00       2.00        2.00
NET  Bt-NEFITS                                     69.66      56.35      44.43      37.74      20.28
UNIT COST Of A  BBL
PRESENT VALUE OF NET BENEFITS                       22.43      16.20      11.40       8.65        4.15
ACCUMULATED PRESENT VALUE OF 8ENEFITS              114.72    130.92    142.32    lt0O.97    155.12
ACCUMULATED PRESENT VALUE OF BENEFITS                   -          -           -                     -
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM PROJECT DIVISION 1
12/15/83



- 71 -
ANNEX 7.01
Selected Documents in Project File
1.   Pakistan Energy Year Book (1981).
2.   Report of Government of Pakistan Working Group on Development and
Conservation of Energy Resources (1983).
3.   Review of GOP Sixth Five Year Plan, World Bank Report 4706-PAK, 1983.
4.   "A Study of the Development Alternatives for the Toot Jurassic
Reservoir", Intercomp Resource Development and Engineering Ltd., 1982.
5.   Financial Analysis of Toot Phase II Project-Supporting Tables.
6.   Second Toot Project Reporting Requirements.



I



IBRD 17072R
_4A'           Nw   TOOT FIELD-CROSS SECTION, A-A'                     77V                                      n 4 .-'J  JUNE1983
T/  A     -12  1-7       0             37j.*..,
~~~~~~~~-                                          _                          _  00\,1'0                                                                ,, , ,_,         63-0'B c
*-2-                                   i W                      -                                                                                    ......r
r 2 Aband1n;9d PrVducKng    Well_                                                                           _ _ __DD-   Conto9  b
-7"3-         65-1.-                      L,             I      4                          F,c,l  Pond/ct/o  Reoot                ,' tA /e         POhoO        hood MA 4)   '
1   S  L A M~~~~-                                  I               CoFR P.on   .  ,t to' . 0/atZe                     it2       40           /'OA/. /
0  A Q ~~~~~~~i:                                                                      e~                            ~                  1'   D            R o ioWdS smase
00  TdO4t                                                 "a'                                   I        - ~~~~~~~~~~'~~'"   t'PL(444TOCO~~-3-  3
2   w   "  q ffi 45K1T/0'>                                                                                                             *   .gPt ttL t oo nd ae";   i . / S.t0   q   <.Srdg4OB
i; ~      ~       ~       ~       - ---t---' _ 4mdet                                                                  / 00404tra   \  ; f  iait-d   rpll :     - ;   
^-   d4- 'n tih5. : n i 68. :: :< 706  7     2         674
-32'                                                 
PI               ( _/~~~~. '-2  DI   -         Sroh~
TOOT FIELD-STRUCTURE ON  UNCONFORMITY AT TOP JURASSIC                                                               -wJ                        o \
*ProdoIng,I Well                   - - -- F-nlt LIones                                                                                                               lInrtt
oAbandon,e  Prodoc,og WE)ll         -a/no- Contours (motels bS I)'                                        0,0/'   0  Ftocyn
D,y Hole                                 0          1        2                   't
ODrilling Hole                              I_______                                                                      IHt/KPN/
Propo-ed Well Location                               ______                                                    .         0                                  /A               B
-30-                                       64-                                                                !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al<FNtAOA 0-  'Boanola
-,                  2~~p
ISLAMIC   REP.                                                                                                  PPLs'r~ouo5
2P         OF  IRAN                                 "j'                                                                                                                                          20'
MAZARAN)   
7 hA t A'   ~ ~      ~            ~           ~          ~          IN   D                     I  A
26'(\s                                                                                                            /     N     D
O il  AN   I)    GAS~~Ot                                l(toI,     - rL aO4 4                                           Tile-Wir/ -00' 0/Ot Th. W.l//nkn24
-   i  BlocIl  CotrenPp.Ofinrd    A'k7"     4~atndnod -                              000d1,no nod too buo//4,;o toho
Blodo Coorentlp ~~~~~eing  GAS  PIEI.DS~~~~~  0 . o~~ooo ~~, p                                           0000,0 ono 60001 ottA,t-. oCt00ly,  I
00AR                                   C,nrn/ TOO Wnlt 0,0,I  no4 d tOo
-Nego0iate~~~~   -,  ~ ~      Proddciii                                                                                          ot-It-O/otloo,ou0100/4/O.
PIPEIt~~i/               s,660      OOPP NAc    Qm4velp000- lollI/-/ 01 0,0i~l4.
-'--'-   Ebstin"    ~ ~ ~ ~~ZI-           PIospoets withs PrtaPi,.d wel P         5 c                                                        rOOlot0 --CO/l-O   n
existing                                                                                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S/h b0/-/Onno
Usider Coentrucrion           Not/anal Capltol~
Selented MoInr towns                                 0/00000000~~~~K,L   BER 0  /00    200         300         400 22It
- Prooincidl Btonodories                                                             I           I                       I
-.  -    Ittleroptionol Boondartes                               00/~~~~~~~~~~~~MLES 0  50  too    /00       20
- -'            ~~~          ~~64'      64                       07'1                                         72/n                     74



