OFFICIAL
DOCUMLNTS       LOAN NUMBER 2374 PAK
Project Agreement
(Second Toot Oil and Gas Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated                               , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2374 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(hereinafter called OGDC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty
million dollars ($30,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that OGDC
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are here-
inafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and OGDC, the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to OGDC on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS OGDC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. OGDC shall carry out the Project, described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, engineering, business and petroleum industry practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist OGDC in carrying out the
Project, OGDC shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank, such consultants to be selected in accor-
dance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) OGDC undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by OGDC to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) OGDC shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the purposes
of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) OGDC shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Pro-
ject, and any material modifications thereof or additions there-
to, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) OGDC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (includ-
ing its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 3 -
(c) Upon the award by OGDC of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between OGDC and the
Bank, OGDC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the per-
formance by OGDC and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Loan.
(e) OGDC shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of OGDC relevant to the Project and any relevant
records and documents as the Bank may reasonably request.
Section 2.06. OGDC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, OGDC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Susidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) OGDC shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) OGDC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by OGDC of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. In carrying out the Project, OGDC shall from
time to time submit to the Bank for approval, the location, depth
and the drilling program of Toot wells to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.


﻿Section 2.09. OGDC shall implement a Toot reservoir moni-
toring program to be agreed between the Bank and OGDC.
Section 2.10. OGDC shall, in consultation with the Borrower,
establish arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, for the utiliza-
tion of associated gas from Toot.
Section 2.11. OGDC shall: (a) furnish to the Bank details of
any proposed new development; and (b) annually furnish to the
Bank, an analysis of its financial situation and a projection of
its future financial position.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of OGDC
Section 3.01. OGDC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering, business and petroleum industry practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. OGDC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial, administrative, business and petroleum industry prac-
tices.
Section 3.03. OGDC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. (a) 0GDC shall at all times take all such
action within its powers to maintain its corporate existence and
right to carry on its operations, and take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business and for the execution of the Project.
(b) Except in the normal course of its business, OGDC shall
not, without the prior approval of the Bank, sell, lease, trans-
fer or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets which
shall be required for the efficient operation of its business and
undertaking.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. OGDC shall maintain records adequate to re-
flect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. OGDC shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. In order to improve the financial systems of
OGDC, OGDC shall implement a financial management action program,
satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with a schedule to be
agreed between the Bank and OGDC.
Section 4.04. OGDC shall not transfer any of its earnings
from operations to the Borrower unless it has met its operating
costs, debt service requirements and a reasonable portion of its
development and exploration expenditures from internally gener-
ated funds.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and ef-


﻿- 6 -
fect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of OGDC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify OGDC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have,been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
For OGDC:
Oil and Gas Development Corporation
X-14, Markaz F-8,
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable Address:                     Telex:
OILGASCORP                        5692 OGDC PK
Islamabad
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of OGDC may be taken or executed by the
Chairman of OGDC or such other person or persons as the Chairman
of OGDC shall designate in writing, and OGDC shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.


﻿- 8 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE I
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cre-
dits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, OGDC shall prepare and forward
to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as
the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. OGDC shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 10 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which would be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After.evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Pakistan
if the bidder shall have    established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manufac-
turing cost of such   goods includes a value added in
Pakistan equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shail be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or


﻿- 11 -
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for certain goods and works of a highly specia-
lized nature for which there are only a small number of available
suppliers and certain goods and works whose timely delivery and
execution are critical to project implementation may be procured
after requesting at least 4 quotations from suppliers or manufac-
turers from at least three countries, provided, however, that
such contracts shall not in the aggregate exceed $2,000,000 equi-
valent.
2.   Existing oil field service contractors engaged under the
first Toot Oil and Gas Development Project (Credit 867 PAK) may
be retained for the purposes of the present Project in accordance
with procedures, and on terms and conditions, satisfactory to the
Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, OGDC shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, OGDC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for


﻿- 12 -
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison oZ
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform OGDC and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph OGDC shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its exe-
cution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in res-
pect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform OGDC and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, OGDC shall inform the tank
of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order
and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform OGDC and state the reasons for its
determination.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Principal Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Repayment period:            15 years
Grace period:                3 years
Interest rate:               14%
Foreign exchange risk:       To be borne by the Borrower.


I N T E R N A T I O N A L   B A N K   F O R   R E C O N S T R U C T I O N   A N D   D E V E L O P M E N T 
C E R T I F I C A T E 
I   h e r e b y   c e r t i f y   t h a t   t h e   f o r e g o i n g   i s   a   t r u e 
c o p y   o f   t h e   o r i g i n a l   i n   t h e   a r c h i v e s   o f   t h e   I n t e r n a - 
t i o n a l   B a n k   f o r   R e c o n s t r u c t i o n   a n d   D e v e l o p - 
m e n t . 
I n   w i t n e s s   w h e r e o f   I   h a v e   s i g n e d   t h i s   C e r t i f i - 
c a t e   a n d   a f f i x e d   t h e   S e a l   o f   t h e   B a n k   t h e r e u n t o 
t h i s                     d a y   o f               1 9 8 
F O R   S E C R E T A R Y 


